ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e6405	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the meeting. The official protocols of 55. Meeting of 9. ==References====External links== Meeting of 10. In April 2008, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Karl Dobnigg, Christian Faul, Mag are reported as prevented. Elisabeth Grossmann, Dietmar Keck, Dr. Beatrix Karl, Walter Murauerand Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch. [[09:04:52]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e6458	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Free sun instead of expensive oil: Distribute social justice – re-climate according to climate”
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e6476	First of all, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, spoke. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time must not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e6497	Madam President. Good morning, Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I don't know if you've been browsing the “Kronen Zeitung” today. [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] I found a remarkable message there. If you haven't read it yet, I'd like to present it to you: ‘Good meeting at the gas stations: U.S. drivers pray for cheaper petrol. ,Prayer at the Pump’ – prayer at the tap column – is a new US mass movement. Their members meet in large groups at gas stations to pray together for a fall in fuel prices. ,The prices will fall, as did the walls of Jericho in the Bible, group founder Rocky Twyman is convinced. ‘We ask God to intervene in the lives of selfish, greedy people...’. I believe that the Austrians will soon pray at the gas stations if the Federal Government continues its course in energy policy as it has done in recent years. [[Abg. Grill: Because you continue to burden them!]] Unfortunately, that is the truth. We heard a clear alarm signal yesterday. I think you've read it in other newspapers today. [[the speaker keeps an issue of “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” up to date]] The U.S. oil price has risen to legendary 122 US dollars per barrel. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - Please, calm down! You can then get out and replicate on it. On legendary 122 US dollars per barrel! That's not the end of the flag rod. Experts talk about it when it goes on, we are next year, 2009, at $200. – Unimaginable, if one considers that in 2003 the oil price was still below $30, many have already warned, explained the phenomenon Peak Oil and tried to point out what that means. Let us imagine what would be if the euro had not taken up this exchange rate trend that it has taken! And then imagine something: The Austrian Federal Government refuses to expand the share of renewable energy, i.e. the oil independence of Austria, further and more intensively. – I think she will soon end up praying. Mr Umweltminister, I would simply like to ask you a few questions today; the development is no longer to be denied. Even if such very conservative institutions as the International Energy Agency, namely their chief economist Fatih Birol, believe that it is good for all countries to get out of oil and gas – we should leave the oil before it leaves us – then, I think, the Federal Government should simply take over and implement the plan that the Greens have presented, namely, from oil and gas to 100 percent by 2020. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the moment, a household that already heats with pellets instead of oil is now saving itself 1 400 € in the year! This is a big sum at the current price. If we continue to imagine this, if the price continues to rise, then the time in which a boiler exchange amortizes becomes shorter and shorter. And that is why I would like to ask you a few questions now, Minister for the Environment: Why is it that public money, namely the promotion of housing, continues to promote oil and gas heating, so that people are still obliged into a dependency? - I'll ask you that. I ask you as Minister for the Environment. You're a government coordinator, you're an ÖVP politician. And you always write yourself sustainability and climate protection on the flags, just don't do it. You don't! I'm just asking you questions now. You can express your opinion on this. I ask you why it is still not mandatory to build with public money, with the housing promotion of solar installations on every house. Why is it that something that is already anchored in the government agreement, which you have written off from us, but which you did not realize at the time, namely, an energy check for all households, where you can save electricity costs, has not been implemented? – Until today, there is no energy check for no single household! They have undertaken to check all Austrian households by 2010. What has become of it, Mr. Environment Minister? I would also like to ask you about the big child who, as Minister for Climate Change, could also cause you to worry a little about transport. Why is it that there is still a ridiculous sum for public passenger transport from the federal government, that is, only €10 million a year? Why is it that the Minister of Transport regrets, as last week in the “Kurier”, that people could not change because public transport has been so badly expanded? – I mean, that's like the cook standing in the kitchen and sorry, no one wants to eat his food. I would just suggest: Cook a little better and improve You're public passenger transport! We want here 80 million € a year. And then the world looks a little different. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why is it still that those people who travel to work by bicycle or by public transport have no tax advantage and no relief from it? These are all, I believe, very important questions, where no one understands in view of these extreme price increases in the oil market, why the Austrian Federal Government is not doing anything to help people get out of this oil price trap. On the contrary! They are still being hindered, and they are even being promoted in this way into the oil price trap into it with public money. And that's where I wish you were today not just a statement, but: At some point, you – ÖVP and SPÖ – also agree to proposals against which you cannot have anything! Who can have something to do with promoting public transport, promoting people who are environmentally conscious, converting oil and gas heating, and also remembering the targeted promotion of refitting in the tax reform? With these boilers, I don't know if you know that, Mr. Minister, this is the following: Most, over half, are between 15 and 30 years old. That means they have to be exchanged. As even further oil and gas heating can be promoted, it is simply incomprehensible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, there is also an energy minister in this government – he also belongs to your group – who, in fact, would have a lot in hand to help people get out of this case: for example, by means of a new eco electricity law, e.g. through energy efficiency measures, through electricity savings; for example, through a plan or some idea of how energy supply should continue in the next few years. The plan he has presented is essentially the expansion of gas power. The gas price will go through the ceiling as well as the oil price, only with a few months late. That is to say, further financial dependence from Austria. The second thing he proposed is to build seven new large-scale power plants on Austrian rivers in the dimension of Freudnau. If you look at that under the line, I can only say: The energy policy you pursue has really remained in the 1970s: Growth is God-given, but you can't do anything. The oil price trend is also God-given, we give it to ourselves and now pay 12 billion € external trade deficit for the energy imports. What you could do in the country to actually change and convert is simply on the street. I believe that the alarm we heard yesterday and today is loud enough, Mr Minister, that rethinking must begin as quickly as possible and as immediately as possible. But I haven't really heard it yet. On the contrary! Her colleague, Minister of Finance and Deputy Chancellor Molterer says: Ecologisation of the tax system that the Green proposals are naïve. – I ask you: Is that naïve against this background? Or is that a little ahead of time, but has it been for a long time? For ten years, we've been putting the proposals on the table, making good offers to you again and again, but you ignore them to 100 percent. Last year you said: The Kyoto target will be reached at 100 percent, for which I promise. Now, a few days ago, you said it won't be achieved. I confess, however, that the others are guilty. With this Catholic tradition, to confess first and then hope that nothing happens, that you get the resolution, you will not get through climate change and energy policy, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e6575	For a preliminary opinion, Mr. Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e6596	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On the subject raised by the Greens: What is going on in energy policy, what are the tasks to achieve the climate change objective in common?, I can only agree on one point with regard to the statements made by Mrs Glawischnig: Yeah, it's true, the oil price is over $120. Everything else you have put into space here is partly in work and partly not my responsibilities, and it is also not true from the cornerstones. I want to try to explain: Where are we? What are the challenges? Who has to bear what burden in its respective responsibilities in order to achieve the climate change objective and the energy objectives? The first point, ladies and gentlemen, is this: If we look at what is going on internationally in the field of energy policy, we must see that at present about the following breakdown is affecting energy output worldwide: 35 percent oil, 25 percent coal, 20 percent gas, only 10 percent renewable energy – 10 percent on average. We are 23 percent in Austria and 60% in electricity production in renewable energy sources. Further: 6 per cent nuclear power, 2 per cent hydropower. As said, in Austria 60 percent. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This too is our task: We need to see where these energy sources come from and how it looks with economic dependence. The EU's share of imports is currently 54 percent and will increase to 66 percent by 2030, if we do not do anything – not just Austria. Yes, we are stronger than ever, overall and also in Austria, dependent on the use of renewable energy. We want to focus on renewable energy in the fight against climate change. We also want to relieve our households. And we want to be more independent of States that are uncertain as to the political situation when oil and gas will not be expected from these crisis spots in the long run. Now on the challenges and topics that we have to consider. The changeover to renewable energy is not only limited to the question of eco electricity, but also to the question of mobility, transport policy and the question of space heating and associated with it, of course: How do we build our houses? How do we clean up those units of post-war buildings that are not on the best energy policy and energy standards? Two points. First: We must not overlook the fact that Austria has set energy efficiency as a leading factor in Europe. It's not enough – I'm here with you. But if you look at the comparative data, then we are talking about figures, facts and facts and not just emotions, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, yes!]] Gross domestic product has increased by 43 percent since 1990, with energy consumption only 37 percent. – Still too much, but decoupled from economic growth. CO2 emissions over this period have increased by only 15 percent, not by 43 percent, such as the domestic product or by 37 percent, such as energy consumption. – Still too much, but we have actually made a little progress in energy efficiency. We need to be even more ambitious, but since 1990 we have been working with the economy, together with the economy, that the decoupling can work. One question you have raised and which also moves me is the question: How does housing, space heating, the supply of people with high-quality energy and the quality of life in the living area continue? – There is a single possible rail: It's housing promotion. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You forget...! That's not true!]] If you come out here today to the speaker's desk and make an appeal to me, I'll tell you: I am in the process of making sure, on a voluntary basis, with an Article 15a agreement, that we will make more money for low-energy houses in the future, and that we will increase the recovery rate. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The story is already very old!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we live in a federal country as you know – hopefully you know that. And it is up to the federal states – exclusively the federal states – to place the housing funds on the question of: [[New call for tender Dr Moser]] How much money for the renovation? From my point of view, the recovery rate must be increased dramatically, because we have the biggest energy leak in the buildings of the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. And we must ensure that in the future, much stronger than in the past, low-energy buildings will also be used. Now on a subject that you have referred to, namely: How do we use energy to equip the homes of the future? And that's where you see my responsibilities in the Climate and Energy Fund. Together with colleagues from the economic resort, the BKA and the Ministry of Transport, we have managed to make €9 million available in the Climate and Energy Funds to each household, the pellets heating installed, €800, and to add €400 to any household that installs wood and wood wood, to what the housing promotion already does. This is the expertise we have to increase the resources for the people who rely on alternative energies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second point I would like to discuss with you is the question of mobility. The traffic is the climate killer number one. You know that in my area of responsibility there is essentially only one control unit: the bio-prit. In Austria, we started the addition process, and 5.75 percent have to be realized this year. This is the only measure in the transport sector which has so far brought in or reduced one million tonnes of CO2 for the balance sheet in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not true!]] I hold very closely to that march route that the Greens have given – by the way, for the first time in my political career. In the 2006 energy transition paper – I ask you to read it, and I hope that what happened to you in 2006 will still apply this year, because I do not believe that you are going to fight something that you do not want to implement – 10 percent bio-sprite mix must be realized in 2010, 15 percent in 2015 and 20 percent in 2020. [[Abg. Brosz: This is different from the ÖVP!]] I do not want to beg for that much because we would be walking exactly into the sheer scarcity of food shortages. But 10 percent are inside. We'll meet. I am glad that we have the common goal and then expand the bio-sprit mix to 10 percent by 2010 without losing the balance with the food. – The Green Programme has been successfully implemented and is being implemented in a joint manner. That makes sense, ladies and gentlemen, too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They also talk about the full exit from fossil energy sources; full exit from natural gas, oil, coal. I ask you seriously at this point. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Schedule!]] How do you want to manage mobility? – Changeover to public transport, cycling in the cities – no topic at all, consensus, is to be forced, that is to be forced in local transport. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Please read, Mr. Minister!]] But what fuels – if you don't want the oil and the bio-sprit, how I take away the newspapers – do you want to move the cars of the future? This is totally non-worldly and technically impossible. To present an energy mix that helps us to move on is our task. The third and last point I would like to address is the question of sustainable energy future for Austria. Energy supply is a key issue for economic and environmental reasons: for households, for people on the one hand, who have to fight with the burden of rising energy prices, and on the other hand, the ecological challenge to reverse towards a new energy future for Austria. We are leading Europe. We have the highest share of renewable energy sources with 23 percent of the total energy cake, with 60 percent in electricity production. We must create a wise mix in this area for the future, which, from my point of view, looks like this: We need significantly more eco electricity for Austria – we are negotiating these days to double the share of green electricity from currently 7 to 8 percent to 15 percent by 2015. That would be a qualitative and quantitatively enormous step, and I am familiar with it. Second point: We have to put more emphasis on hydropower in the production of electricity, if we do not want to import nuclear power – obviously there is also a national consensus and a close to the shoulders. The first thing I hear, also from your ranks, from the ranks of the Greens, when master plans are presented for the expansion of hydropower, however, is: Yeah, well, but not with me! [[Abg. Brosz: Do you want a power plant in Hainburg?]] This is not going to happen in the long run, ladies and gentlemen. You have to decide what you want! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: What about Hainburg?]] That is why we will consistently follow the master plan for hydropower as well as the issue of eco-electric production. I want a doubling to 15 percent. I would like to promote clear framework conditions for investors in wind power, biomass, biogas and, above all, photovoltaics, in a mix between eco electricity law and climate and energy photovoltaics in order to reach 15 percent. This is currently being negotiated. I am very optimistic that in the next few hours and days, we will also be bringing a good solution to Parliament by the Council of Ministers in order to develop green electricity positively, in order to create the corresponding share to achieve the climate change objective. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] In this sense, there are a lot of things ahead of us. We are very successful on the road, and at this pace we can achieve our climate protection goal in 2012.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e6788	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. First of all, Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e6813	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have been with my solar charger for a few months, regardless of sockets, when it comes to charging phones, cameras or MP3 players. – Austria is not yet so independent. We all know that climate policy requires medium and long-term decisions. Unfortunately, a lot of measures are missing, which have not been put in place by the previous governments, but which would now allow us to achieve the objectives we have achieved – admittedly very ambitious goals – even within the time taken. We are in the middle of the first Kyoto period, our values are already measured. I too consider it a very, very big challenge to pick up all that has been missed in the past by 2012. I think it is known that there are very, very few measures in climate policy that work very quickly; for example, thermal building renovation is one or the installation of wind generators. This is quite fleeting, and I think we should quickly take all those measures that will help us to achieve the benefit of these opportunities in the period up to 2012. In reality, however, when we think about how we reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, we have to think about the post-Kyoto period already after 2012, and now set the course for it, because many measures need long periods of time. In all the things we do, all the measures we take should always have a priority: to be active domestically, to take action domestically, to invest domestically in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. On the one hand, this creates jobs, generates value added and really reduces our domestic greenhouse gas base, and we are not dependent on buying increasingly expensive certificates that become more and more speculation objects. We are now in the middle of the discussion on how it will continue after 2012. Therefore, it would be very important for us Austrians to try to play a very offensive role in the negotiations on the conference in Copenhagen 2009, where this post-Kyoto regime will hopefully be decided and where, as I hope, we can achieve a very broad, common global work, with correspondingly high demands, because only with high demands will we also manage global warming – and we will only make it global, not alone. Nevertheless, Austria is called upon to take a whole range of measures. We have a lot to do again. The debate on the Climate Change Act, which we have just begun, is about having real concrete measures, concrete figures, concrete leaders, potentials, periods within which the reduction of emissions is to be achieved, but also the question of how, if the objectives cannot be achieved, sanctions will become very difficult. We have this discussion with the countries, with all the regions, but I do believe that the climate protection law to be developed will be a very big milestone on the way to a good climate policy in Austria. Another measure, which is very, very important to me, has been announced for a long time, but unfortunately not yet implemented – I hope we will do so in the next few weeks – namely the so-called climate check for all laws. Climate policy has a very similar problem to development policy. We can't really be coherent. That is, we are not able to focus all our actions, all of our laws, which we advise and decide here, on a goal and not on each other. I hope that by considering, in the run-up to laws, how they affect climate and global development, we can achieve this coherence. We have to use our largest potential power plant in Austria, namely the power plant of energy saving, the slowing down of the annual energy increase, which is immense. It will only succeed in achieving a successful share of renewable energy. A energy efficiency law will certainly be necessary, as energy savings in our capitalist economic system do not have a commodity character. Special measures will require steering measures to make efficient use and savings of energy attractive. I would have liked to say a lot of other things. For example, I see agrosprit very, very skeptical, because I know what global impact it has, because I see that this is quite difficult to reconcile with a situation in which people starve, but I do believe that it will be possible for us Austrians to make a policy that proves that it is possible on the one hand to feed all people, to slow down the climate, to heat the climate, and at the same time to achieve a meaningful energy mix. [[Abg. Grill: Ideologically skeptical!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]] In this sense, I have not yet lost the hope of a sensible eco electricity law worthy of the name. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e6861	Next, Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e6916	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I have the Green Paper on a press conference by Mrs Glawischnig and Mr Rossmann just a few days ago. In this it is read that the Greens want to burden the Austrians with saying and writing €7 billion more. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Well, not really!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] 7 billion €! [[Abg. Oils: Functional illiteracy!]] It contains a few examples: the pensioner Anneliese Kohl, load 131 € more; the family children's empire, a couple with five children, additional tax 2 040 €; a married couple with a child, called family Austria, additional tax 1 095 €; Single parent, called Carola Meier, single mother with a small son, extra burden € 697 ; [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Awesome!]] Penthouse-Single Heribert Goldmüller, in the documents it is once a single investment banker, another time a single advertising specialist, additional charge 2 487 €. Of course, the Greens promise something, not a question. They promise those who save energy, an eco-bonus for energy saving and a boost for changeover, a bonus for the use of public transport, 100,000 new jobs – I then ask the companies that do not already get skilled workers, as it looks – to reduce the additional wage costs – I then ask the 50 percent of businesses that do not have employees – and a cover for energy-intensive plants. [[Call the Greens: How much?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] That means, actually, promise. On the other hand, all those concerned are again aware that they are not burdened. I wonder, Then who pays these 7 billion? – The households that cannot afford to change their heating systems will then be burdened. The commuters who do not have the opportunity to switch to public transport because they just depend on the car? Or the companies that are below the cover, or the 50 percent of the companies that have nothing to do with the additional wage reduction, i.e. the one-person companies? And as I said, I wonder today where the companies are taking their workers and skilled workers, and where do they take them from? [[Abg. Oillinger: Mr. Kopf, read a little more precisely!]] That is, a miracle bag is promised here, in which no one is supposed to pay for it, everyone benefits from it. However, the system becomes much more complicated, no question. Only exception: Figures will probably only be the “many hundred thousand” advertising professionals and investment bankers we have in this country. It'll be the only ones who'll pay for it. Ladies and gentlemen, I all prefer to stick to the system that has led to the reduction of CO2 taxation in Austria for two years and to a continuous increase in energy efficiency in this country. How did we achieve this? – With incentives without burdens, we thus create incentives, in the Climate and Energy Fund, through the Eco-Power Act, increased support in the context of housing support for low-energy houses or in general with environmental promotion, where we have been promoting many environmentally relevant projects for many years, and also with the last proposed master plan on the expansion of hydropower. But you can put yourself back on the point of view: We do not want a nuclear current, and of course we also want less CO2 emissions – but when it comes to producing energy, for example, CO2-free as for example by hydropower, then we say no again. [[Abg. Oillinger: Where are you building?]] This is a green miracle bag that can never and never bring what it promises, that is, CO2 savings, and that without any burden. With this concept, you prove that you only want to pull the money out of the bag for the Austrians, and that is without effect.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e7032	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. Member of the European Parliament, also for you, five minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e7053	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! If I listen to my colleague's head, I will gain the impression that he cannot or does not want to read meaningfully. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If Mr Kopf says that the Austrians are burdened with €7 billion according to the concept of the Greens, that is simply and simply wrong and not the truth! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The truth is: In return, the Austrians will be relieved by 7 billion. That is to say, the increase in tax revenue in the eco- and transport sectors is immediately returning to private households and to economic enterprises. [[Abg. Grill: But that's nowhere!]] It is not true, Mr Kopf, that only those who save energy will flow back a little bit, but every private household will receive, within this concept, an eco-bonus in the order of 520 €, regardless of whether it saves energy or not. And it will stay in his pocket the more he saves energy. [[Abg. Brosz: Per person!]] Of course, all economic enterprises are also relieved of a reduction in additional labour costs, including the one-person companies. This model will benefit in particular those who use energy sparingly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If your Mr. Vice-Chancellor has called this model of the Greens “basic naïve” and you obviously want to give the impression that this is a fundamental naïve, I wonder: [[Abg. Sieber: He's right!]] Why have other countries – an international comparison shows this – gone this way for many years? Denmark, Sweden and other countries are very successful in this way. And in Canada, it's even a province, British Columbia, which is on this path. In addition, the Austrian Economic Research Institute, Dr. Schratzenstaller, has described this concept of the Greens as a step in the right direction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: This is a single project!]] But today's theme is also: to distribute socially justly. Now I'm wondering, What does this Federal Government do? Is this federal government socially just? - Not at Weitem! - No, Minister. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Yes!]] The state is financially starved, people need to get deeper into the bag to pay what the public hand does not guarantee: sufficient care, good education, people have to pay about 150 million per year from their own wallets only for after-help hours in that country. And in view of rising prices, millions of people this year have to lose net real wages; Cause: rising oil prices. With your climate policy, you consciously let people slide deeper into the oil price trap and lead them into a situation where they have less and less money in the wallet. But, of course, it's gonna be much thicker. We all know that there is a trend towards increasing inequality in Austria. The shear between high and low income opens. The income of labour is lower than income from wealth and speculation, and the wealth is very unevenly distributed. Let's have a moment with the wealth! If it is true what is in the “standard” today, then today in the Council of Ministers you will continue to relieve the rich and super-rich of this country over privileges in private foundations! The payment tax to replace the gift tax is to be deductible tax, Mr President, and the second is to be tax-free. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Stay upright!]] Given the previous privileges that super-rich and rich people enjoy in private foundations, this is simply a scandal. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is an affront for those millions of taxpayers in Austria who have to accept this real wage losses net, i.e. less money in the wallet than last year. In addition, you abolish the inheritance and gift tax – with the pretext that burdened the middle class. That's ridiculous! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] In the case of wealth, there is no medium-sized person; in the case of wealth, there is only up and down – and you are making policy for the top ten thousand of this country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] The SPÖ has adopted its social justice policy. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e7208	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e7230	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the case of assets, there is no medium-sized person? –I know some of those who have generated a small, modest wealth, a family house, a small apartment, so there is also a middle class. I've even heard some things that were quite funny. The Americans, for example, pray for lower petrol prices. I think we should keep it better with “urbi et orbi”, pray and work. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Ora et laba!]] This is the better way to achieve climate change objectives. Mr Pröll, Federal Minister, said: We're good on our way! – Now, however, we need to know that, what the climate change targets are reaching, we have to keep moving from the target and therefore we are not going well, but still have to do a lot to achieve these climate change targets. It has signed an ÖVP minister under this Treaty, which obliges us to achieve these objectives. If we don't reach them, ladies and gentlemen, it will cost us a lot of money. It must be clear to us today not only about environmental protection, but also about climate protection, which is a profoundly social issue, ladies and gentlemen. I am sorry that the “social fighter” is not here today, because this is a deep social question because we also have to ask ourselves: How can the minimum pensioner in her small apartment afford the change to a new heating? How can she afford to clean up thermally? – This is the first step, only then will the second step of this tax reform you have proposed. First of all, we must ensure that those who cannot afford it also have lower operating and heating costs, and not, as has been the case so far, spending money on oligarchs, for Sheikhs who are getting richer and richer, who buy a Boeing “Triple Seven” just to fly around space – with the money of the small pensioners who have to spend them for heating costs. This is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. We must do everything we can to strengthen domestic and renewable energy sources. This brings value added in the country, which creates jobs in the country, and this reduces our dependence. The fossil energy will eventually end. Burning is a highly primitive process, a most primitive exothermic process that our ancestors have already dominated when they were still living in caves. Sometime the Stone Age was over – but not because the stones went out, but because they developed further. We also need to further develop – not because fossil energy sources are ending, but because we have to take a new path that in Austria gives us the opportunity to make use of domestic renewable energy sources. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Pröll, you said that we are 60 per cent of electricity generation, which is the share of renewable energy sources. Unfortunately, that's not right. It was 70 percent in 1997, 55 percent in 2005, and we are now heading for 50 percent. That means the direction isn't right. I therefore very much welcome the further expansion of hydropower in Austria, because this is a really important treasure for us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Hydropower, of course also photovoltaics, geothermal, biomass, all this we have to use, not just a single area. It is also an error to say in the housing promotion – that is what SPÖ and Greens in Upper Austria have done together – that it will only be promoted if there is a photovoltaic system on the roof. I think that's the wrong way. The entire range of renewable energy sources must be capable of being used. Not in any case, not at every location of a house, the photovoltaic system is the best one can use. Freedom is our highest good, ladies and gentlemen, and we must also give this freedom to people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Whatever we need, this is more honesty in this environmental and climate policy. Allow me now to give some examples that are not honest from my point of view. Mr Federal Minister, some time ago you asked the Austrians not to travel on flights and even flew away by plane. - Not honestly! There is a government clause, all government members travel by train to the clause for climate protection reasons. However, service cars and drivers are there and bring the members of the government back home. - Unhonest! Dr. Van der Bellen is an enthusiastic "alfa" driver. – A great car, but a not really economical car. My car consumes 3.3 liters. Mr. Wabl, whom I very much appreciate, refers to nuclear power and calls windwheels “unarmed bandits”. All these are things that are not all right. Ladies and gentlemen, we can create an energy transition in Austria. We have great entrepreneurs, diligent people. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Our parents have built this country out of the ruins of the Second World War – so let us be so strong and so confident to approach this energy change! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should also like to present a book to you, Mr Federal Minister, in which we have written down how we imagine this in detail.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e7314	The next item is the speech by Mr Schalle. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e7336	Madam President. High house! Minister of State Dipl.-Ing. Pröll, I will simply not let go of the idea that you, Mr Federal Minister, and your colleagues have no real interest in renewable energy, because your actions and wishes are very much aimed at protecting the large energy companies such as alliance, e-business or OMV, practically your clients. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Incorrect text!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: But that's really not true!]] The energy of the sun should and should not have been used in the best way – because the colleagues of the Greens have not been wrong – especially since it exists everywhere, even regionally inexhaustible. Let us bear in mind that the fifteen thousand times the entire world's energy needs could be covered by the sun alone! Furthermore, the basic material for the production of solar cells, i.e. silicon, is the second most common element of the earth and part of sand. Austria is the market leader in the field of solar energy and photovoltaics. I believe it is absolutely incomprehensible that over 90 percent of production goes abroad and the German government does not do anything for the domestic market. One thing can make us particularly proud: The St. Veiter company GREENoneTEC is one of the world's leading companies in the field of solar energy; every third collector from St. Veit goes to the EU area. The right path can only go in the direction of getting rid of fossil raw materials and changing entirely to renewable energy sources, in order to counter supply shortages and to resolve dependence and price dictatorships on large companies. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, there is still a great deal of potential in wind energy, geothermal energy, pellets and small power plants. To enforce all this, we need a new eco electricity law. And since, Mr Federal Minister, you do not need to reinvent the wheel, but only to borrow from the German EEC as regards feed rates and the duration of the contracts. Even China takes on the German model. Much remains to be done and possible in the area of district heating. & Edit... Güssing is an energy author. In fact, it is urgently necessary and the command of the hour to invest more in research and not to distribute the funds under the principle of foundry. Our budget is far too small for this, and we miss the long-standing development. Furthermore, the installation of alternative energy – solar energy, photovoltaics, wind energy, geothermal energy – is a real job engine for small and medium-sized enterprises. Create It is at last the basis for a better air quality in the cities through the complete conversion of all public transport to renewable energy sources! No new registrations of buses and taxis without environmentally friendly fuel! I don't think that's too much. A federal uniform law on the promotions in the field of housing renovation has also been mentioned more often today; environmentally sound conditions in the construction of buildings. I take here as an example Italy or Spain, where legislation is required, and this has been true for years now that hot water treatment by solar energy has to be done. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government: They owe us the information for the citizens, how they can efficiently and easily save energy. You promised us a long time ago, but I don't hear anything about it. This would help you, Mr Federal Minister, not only the environment, but also the people to save money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e7395	Mr Bauer. — (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e7416	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am somewhat surprised at the introduction to today's debate by being asked to pray. I can remember a time when spray prices from 20 to 25 s were demanded. Hardly achieved is this price level, one recommends praying. So in view of this, I think that the discussion should start a little more serious. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I also believe that it is time to stop saying again and again that there are so many shortcomings in Austria. – Austria is thanks to the hydropower of that country, which has the highest share of renewable energy at over 23 percent. Their large models of Germany and the whole EU are 5 percent and 6 percent respectively. In this sense, we should make an assessment that will be fair to what we have to expect. And I really believe that we have to assume – as the planning document on climate and energy policy also shows – that increasing energy efficiency is a major concern and that it is precisely there that we should put in the most force and the necessary resources for research and development. Second: Of course, we know that we have to reduce in the longer term and force an exit from fossil energy. This is simply necessary because the resources available to the world will be much more shared in the future and will therefore no longer be available to those who have been traditional fossil energy users. Today's prices and tomorrow's prices will no longer be comparable, because they will continue to rise, yes, by a multiple increase. It will also be necessary to talk about optimizing distances – as was done – because I think we will actually have to do it to bring about an energy transition and to pursue it with all our strength. The half-hearted approaches I sometimes find, whether for cost reasons or for institutional reasons, will slowly lose importance. The energy transition is due to the fact that in the future all countries will have the great task of covering their energy needs as far as possible from their own resources and at national level through the pursuit of energy autarchy and autonomy. If I can cite the communities here as an example, I would like to say: I assume, for example, that heat can be quite regional. This means that one can decouple here and get energy-dependent regions and ultimately energy-autonomous nations through energy-autonomous communities. This is what we have to strive for, and for this to happen, it will be necessary to force the penetration of climate-related technologies and ultimately to strive for a continuous ecologicalisation by, for example, presenting, as I have tried to do, a policy of support based on the in- saving CO2, i.e. an internal calculation of emission certificates, should be considered. When it says again: That doesn't matter because...!, then it's to say: This brings a lot, because it is a continuous formation of consciousness! If everywhere we support the awareness of ecologisation, the reduction of CO2 also with premiums and promotions, with the possibility of building on existing support systems, then, I believe, we are on the right track. We all know that this path, which will be taken today, can no longer be followed for infinitely long. I think we have to act quickly, because the signs of this are already there. Finally, the Ecostrom Act is not a law that will meet all the requirements. To me, the Energy Efficiency Act seems to be just as important as, for example, a district heating directive. That is to say, all those measures that lead to CO2 reduction are courageous, without being stopped by too much lobbyism or too many institutional frameworks. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] – I thank and hope that we have the courage to do so!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e7476	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e7498	Federal Minister! Madam President. Courage, entrepreneurship, innovativeness and risk-takingness are needed and, in view of the challenges of the future, especially as regards climate protection and the safeguarding of life's foundations, do not display an activity where concepts from the past are presented, as the Greens do, for example, and simply say: We turn at the control screw and burden the Austrians with about €7 billion! - We don't want that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They develop from an environmental movement to a load movement. Think about the future! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe climate protection is a really big social challenge. Each individual is required to take account of it in his day-to-day actions and to make the economic principle the motto of life entirely in the sense of sustainability. I am very glad that Josef Pröll as Minister of the Environment and Life always puts signs in the right direction on the part of politics. This federal government, ladies and gentlemen, has shown its willingness, especially in the discussion on food and energy production, to take sustainable discharge steps for the socially weak, for the people in Austria who deserve little, and to take the package of expenditure to a level of €300 million. We are happy about this and are now preparing ourselves very sustainable and cautiously according to the principles also the feasibility of a tax relief for 2010, with the focus in particular on families and service providers, those who pay wage and income tax. You also allow me, as a representative of agriculture – because the impression has often been that farmers are guilty of increasing food costs or that energy production from bioethanol or whatever is responsible for this rate of inflation – a few words, ladies and gentlemen. We have the clear mission of the consumers in Austria to produce transparent food for them, to provide the animal feed areas and, as far as possible, to use appropriate energies. I am saying this because, especially with regard to the issue of energy production, we should use those areas which make it possible when the first two pillars, namely food production and surface feed production, are fulfilled. These are all matters relating to security of supply and, of course, to ensuring, in Austria, corresponding independences in climate policy and energy policy. And here, I believe, we are called on, in particular in the areas of electricity production, heat production, but also fuel production, to create appropriate market launch programmes and incentives for those who have courage and risk willingness to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, comprehensive climate protection really offers a huge opportunity, and I hope, Federal Minister, that the Council of Ministers will now reach an agreement on eco electricity legislation. It is important to create appropriate framework conditions so that we have the domestic potential – say: Hydropower, solar energy, photovoltaics, biomass and biogas – can be used efficiently to meet the objectives we have set ourselves in climate protection. We are called upon to do so. The aim is to face up to clear implementation mechanisms so that we can achieve these objectives as well. As we are also talking about costs and benefits in this context, it is interesting for me to note that the last eco electricity law brought with it that energy prices have remained stable compared to all other fossil energy sources. In this way, in Austria, we achieve a saving of three million tonnes of CO2 emissions! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that comprehensive climate protection and fair distribution provide opportunities for comprehensive security of supply both in food production and in energy production. Through the use of domestic potentials with new technologies, we can trigger an employment offensive in Austria. And last but not least, by reducing CO2 emissions, we can also make a significant contribution to environmental protection and thus to safeguarding the livelihoods. I think Federal Minister Pröll is on the right track with this Federal Government!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e7559	Mrs Lichtenecker has now come to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e7580	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I have the impression, Mr Pröll and Mr Bauer and Mr Kopf, that the current hour on this very important topic is confused with the fairy tale hour! – There has to be some clarification about what they are spreading here. Mr Minister, if you say that the Greens have demanded a 10 percent share of agrofuel by 2010, then it must be made clear here that we have focused on biogas, which in this context is far different from bioethanol and diesel. [[Abg. Grillisch: That's a nonsense!]] Secondly, Mr Bauer, in order to clarify the final point once and for all: The Greens of Austria have never demanded that the petrol price be increased to 20 to 25 Schilling. It's a nonsense! Mr Kopf, as you are always spreading the great history of energy efficiency in Austria, it is clear here: Energy intensity has deteriorated dramatically in Austria since 2000. That is the sad record at present! Climate protection and energy change cannot be discussed here in any way! We are miles away from the Kyoto target, and that will be very expensive for us! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] Mr Minister, you can really write off the fairy tale of the “climates”! And: You do not take your own announcements and demands seriously in any way! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They vote against your own demands and against programmes to improve energy intensity and energy efficiency in households, such as in the form of energy checks. Why don't you ask if an energy check or energy-saving consultation was carried out in any Austrian budget on the basis of the Austrian Federal Government's initiative? You won't find any where that was the case! Minister! They miss very important opportunities! At the 2007 Climate Summit, Mr Pröll, you have announced a new eco electricity law. - We're still waiting. They have announced this year that the decision-making process will take place by the end of April. So far, however, we do not have an eco electricity law, and it will take a long time to do so. In addition, you have announced a climate check for all the laws, but we have not seen anything of them to this day! Thankfully, however, you have now adopted a green demand that there should finally be a national climate protection law. It remains to be seen, however, whether that will actually be the case! In view of the rising prices, Mr Minister, we have heard the statements on developments in this area today. All commentators write: that we need an energy turnaround and finally alternatives to move forward here. And there are alternatives, Minister: They are clearly in the field of energy efficiency and the expansion of renewable energy. If we are talking about energy efficiency, we need to put it very clearly on space heating. The aim, Mr Minister, is to increase the recovery rates on the one hand and, on the other hand, to finally introduce the passive house standard and to make rapid progress here. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Mr Minister, if you always talk about the federal states, this is really a bad process! You have been responsible for this policy for five years, and what have we achieved? – The development is very bad! They are responsible for negotiating at ministerial level with the countries in order to go a little further. The same applies, of course, to transport. Pendlers need good conditions to get out of the regions to their jobs. But what we lack is a good transport solution for local transport. For this we urgently need an investment offensive. In addition, it is about finally eliminating the disadvantages of the commuters in relation to commuting fees and kilometers of money. The framework conditions are important in order to finally make it possible for people in Austria to implement climate change and to live. It is necessary to ensure long-term agility of energy supply. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Minister, one last sentence: Finally finish the Sunday speeches! Take care of your responsibility! Finally, put in place appropriate measures for energy efficiency and renewable energy expansion!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e7650	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e7671	Madam President. Minister! High house! “Gratis sun instead of expensive oil!” – Today we have experienced a numbering fireworks by Minister Pröll. However, you may not have cut off well in mathematics! The fact is that the share of renewable electricity and renewable energy has fallen from 70 percent to 52 percent in just ten years. That is a fact, and this proves that nothing has happened in the energy policy in ten years! In autumn 2006, her colleague Bartenstein was still talking about the oil price commuting between $30 and $40 per barrel. Today we know how this oil price has developed. So if we start from such foundations, Minister Pröll and Bartenstein, then it is no wonder that we are experiencing chaos policy instead of environmental policy! This is chaos policy, and I will prove to you on the basis of some examples that it cannot continue. First: Biosprit. – They are always talking about the fact that we have to go in the direction of 10 per cent of the addition. We already know today that if we want to achieve this addition, 800 000 hectares in Austria would have to be taken under plowing, only to achieve this 10 per cent by addition. That's unthinkable! You know very well that we can't get these raw materials from Austria at all! Second point: the meagre ideas with the JI/CDM programs. – We build plants all over the world, give them and get pollution rights in return. This costs us €500 million by 2012, with which we do not have any value added in Austria, give us our knowledge and in Austria we cannot achieve any environmental benefits at all. About this JI/CDM insanity, even the thyroid citizens would laugh! Third point: NAbucco gas pipeline. – You confirm that you will continue to be arrested for your ideas of fossil energies. A few benefit from it, and the taxpayer has to pay certificates of 1.1 billion €. A sample example of this is found in Klagenfurt: A new gas steam power plant is to be built there. We get the gas from Iran and Russia, deliver the electricity to Italy, the bonded – and the dirt remains held in Carinthia. That's your energy policy! But this is certainly not the case, Minister Pröll! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The eco electricity law that you have destroyed in two novels will not again experience reasonable novels, and we know that you are totally ignorant of Interesting associations are and that you push aside all the suggestions that come from really profound experts of matter. Mr Pröll, you know that the Renewable Energy Act has succeeded in building 15 000 megawatt energy plants in Germany, which have brought about a truly reasonable and sustainable development in the energy sector, not only in terms of energy security, but also in creating new jobs and reducing the price of electricity. The consequences for industry and the environment have already been illuminated in connection with the trade in certificates. The fact is that by pressure from the certificate system, industry is also considering seizing from Europe. What we do with it is also clear: This will provide a bear service to environmental protection. We achieve that there is a lack of migration from companies and environmental protection in these countries, for example in Asia, environmental protection, as we know, does not count as much as in Europe. The CO2 certificates cost when we buy them from abroad, 23 € per tonne. A corresponding CO2 reduction would cost about €16 per tonne in case we work with Austrian wind power. That is, we could build 2,000 windwheels with the expected penalty payments that we are unfortunately going to experience in Austria, and with these 2,000 windwheels we could really revive the economy and help climate change and energy policy. Summa summarum I would like to say that if we wanted to, we could make a total increase in renewable energy within five years. In this case, however, we should really bundle all the forces in Austria and be ready to do so. We demand an overall energy concept with the participation of all ministries and with the involvement of all interest groups. In this context, we also call for a parliamentary committee on energy. Such a committee in Parliament, which is concerned with energy issues, could take this question of the future seriously into consideration! We need an extension of the infrastructure with public networks, which remains in the hands of the state. We need an eco electricity law that is based on the German EEG. This could really be forward-looking for Austria, so that we can use the successes of these new technologies accordingly. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Last point: We need an exemption from the access of the energy companies from the Austrian parties. We need a change in the Party Promotion Act so that it is finally clear that not energy companies in Austria determine politics, but we politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e7757	Mr Scheibner is now speaking. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e7778	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard many demands today, especially from the Greens, which is necessary to improve climate protection and to increase efficiency in energy policy in order to avoid non-renewable energy. I think one of the most important demands in these areas – it is important to do something here! – is the prevention of speculation and the retention of the activities of speculators. This applies both to the oil industry, because the high oil price is largely due to the fact that there are massive speculations by the oil companies and all those who benefit from it, but this also applies – and this is very important to me – to the profits of the environmental discussion; I now call them environmental speculators, ladies and gentlemen. The fact that countless semi-truths are presented in this area, but in the background they are properly profited, is at least as critical as profit and speculation in the oil industry. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, also from the Greens: They were once very credible in this area. [[Abg. Oils: That's still us!]] You've become a little gray! I do not mean now the hairdressing of the male MEPs in the Greens, but I think that the overall appearance and credibility have suffered a little bit. You're not going by bike now, as you all want to imagine. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] To the class fighter in the last row: It may be that for him everyone who earns more than €1,000 is already a big capitalist. But everyone else has their cars. [[New calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this reminds me a little of the behaviour of a famous traffic professor who has already moved to fields during his lectures against car traffic in the 1980s. However, he himself drove by car to the first courtyard of the university building and went there on a bicycle to ride by bicycle to the institute so that he could be credible against road traffic. – A little bit of this seems to me in the greens too! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There are a number of green politicians and also experts who want to make us aware of what is necessary in order to operate climate change. They're talking about renewable energies. - That's what we heard! Biosprit is also supposed to be so important and good. The Minister has introduced this. At the time when we were still in the government, he promised us that there would be no price increases. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's it!]] - Oh, that's it? We only notice that the spray is getting more expensive and that there is already a discussion about whether the biosprit is really so good! Wood as renewable energy was applied. Suddenly, wood prices are rising, and there is a scarcity in wood, although there have been environmental disasters. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I know why this is so, my colleague: Because you're afraid the prices of wood are falling! That's why you don't take the wood out of the forest or keep it in the warehouses. You know it is! And the consumer pays. Ladies and gentlemen! Wind power plants are praised as wonderful. Despite the highest electricity prices, there are still high demands and promotions. Figures do all that for taxpayers and consumers. In connection with diesel we have heard for years: Buy diesel cars, this is cheaper and environmentally efficient! – Today, every diesel driver has to be blamed for most pollution and pollution on the environment, and the diesel is already more expensive than petrol. Figures do that for the consumer. The CO2 tax from 1st. Also, July will not be non-profit-neutral, but it will again pay the consumer. These are the problems I see here: There are experts who say A and tomorrow B and register for their opinions. There are companies that do good business with it. This is also the case internationally. It means that we are pattern students in Austria. I'm asking: Where are the major, also EU-wide campaigns against the real pollutions of the world, the United States and China? When we compare gross domestic product, we see that China produces seven times as much CO2 emissions as Austria. Nevertheless, we are mainly discussing here in Austria, as we are trying to be an even better model student. Ladies and gentlemen, yes to climate protection! That is why we really need to fight, and everything is to be done against the fact that speculators on both sides earn money at the expense of the Austrians! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We should invest in research. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The possibility of saving energy, improving efficiency and creating new energies must be explored. That would be useful and necessary, and we expect it from you, Minister of State. However, it is counterproductive if you ask for strange demands, for example, that people should refrain from long-distance travel or may also be able to save themselves any second breath, as breathing is also a large CO2 generator.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e7879	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:18:48]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e7900	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 3585/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e8136	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question 3585/AB by Dr Martin Graf, colleagues on measures to satisfy the AMIS victims by the Federal Minister for Finance. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. Derogation from the 24-hour time-limit
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e8158	In order to be able to negotiate items 3 and 4 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 3 and 4 are the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the motion for a resolution (483/A) by Mrs Grillitsch, colleagues and colleagues on a federal law amending the Market Regulations Act 2007 and the Market Rules Transfer Act (550 of Supplements), and the report and request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the draft federal law amending the 2006 Reference Quantities Directive (551 of the Supplements). I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their agreement to the withdrawal from the time-limit for these committee reports. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e8187	It is proposed that the debate on points 3 and 4 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e8211	The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the design and duration of the debates. A day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 116 minutes, green and FPÖ per 92 minutes and BZÖ 64 minutes. As announced in the Presidential Conference, the meeting will be held live by ORF from 9.05 a.m. to 1 p.m. For the time of television transmission after the current hour from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., the following speaking time agreement is made: Federal Minister for the Interior and Federal Minister for Justice each 12 minutes, one round of a group with 10 minutes, with 5 minutes, another 5 minutes and another 5 minutes. The words are spoken according to the size of the group. Any redeployment of the speaking time for the last round of the political groups will take place in time before the last round of the political groups and the remainder will be distributed evenly to the political groups. Actual corrections will only be made after the television broadcast has ended. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:21:54]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Minister for the Interior and the Federal Minister for Justice pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on current matters of internal security and security respectively. on current issues of the law on protection against violence and the protection of victims
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e8264	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. Following these statements, a joint debate will take place within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to the Federal Minister for the Interior to give the statement and point out once again that we have agreed on 12 minutes of speaking time. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e8291	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of today's declaration concerns current issues of internal security. This topic covers a very diverse and complex area to which I will now report. Of course, as Minister of the Interior, I cannot and do not want to mention the inconceivable, brutal and shaking case of incest and abuse. However, it is not possible to make this criminal case a determining factor in our country's security policy. This cannot and must not be seen as a synonym for security in our country by an unimaginably cruel and brutal person. Ladies and gentlemen! That case, which has become known here, is the most brutal and loathsome crime I can remember, as well as probably anyone else. He has deeply shaken the entire Austrian population and of course also me as an interior minister. We stand in the face of the human predicaments that open up here. It makes us inconceivable because it is simply impossible to imagine that a family father can commit such a crime at all. This crime, however, also makes us unscrupulous because we all ask ourselves: How could this almost a quarter of a century-long crime have been discovered? Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that the perpetrator has staged a legend that is probably incomparable. The fact is that he deceived everyone and everyone. The fact is, however, that in retrospect many things always look quite different. This is like the famous criminal novel that you read from behind and thus know who the perpetrator was. What has so far been demonstrated exceeds any imagination, including that of the hardest and most experienced police officers. Ladies and gentlemen! The investigations are still relatively at the beginning and are currently on high-speed. Many questions are open. Every detail still so small is taken up by the investigators. I am therefore grateful at this point to the investigating officials who work around the clock with acribie and great use in order to clarify the open questions. [[General condolences.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I also call on the public to give the victims the necessary respect and above all leave them alone. [[General condolences.]] The victims now need next to the best care we can offer them, especially a privacy that is safe from curious glances, from cameras and microphones. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, it is a loathsome crime. And without a doubt, for me, you have to learn to do it in every criminal case. But there are also questions that directly concern our society. What can society do, what can we all contribute together? The consequence cannot be that we control and monitor every basement, every room, every corner, every hollow room around the clock. I don't want a surveillance state, as some say over and over again, I don't want a surveillance state that sees every person as a problem and a security risk. Ladies and gentlemen! But what we need is a civil court. It cannot be regulated by law, it cannot be prescribed by law, it needs much more, namely consciousness, responsibility towards society and, of course, also a piece of courage. Look instead of looking away! Especially the police need the population as their partner. Clues out of the population are a very essential factor in the investigation of crime by the police. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Very often you hear the sentence: It's none of my business. And far too often there is still the opinion: What I do in my own four walls does not interest anyone! – A clear no when it comes to violence. This is a clear no when it comes to abuse. Unfortunately, there is a dark number in domestic violence and abuse within the family. And since light is in the dark, that must be task, assignment, and ultimately goal. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing is very essential to me: This case is not a policy, it is not at all the appropriate subject to pursue party policy, but it is very likely that security policy measures will be taken in a different light, such as the sexual offender package and, in particular, the sexual offender file. As you know, I have been a Minister of the Interior, since I was praised, particularly intensively concerned with this issue, because this issue is a particular concern to me. This is about protecting the weakest in society, mostly about protecting our children. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever abuses, who destroys, must expect severe punishments and sharp consequences! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I am essentially concerned with the following points which we have decided together in the Council of Ministers today: First of all: A eradication of serious sexual offences will be excluded in the future. It's called victim protection and prevention. In such cases, there must not be a bad compromise. Secondly, Because of the sexual offender file, the police will always be informed where a criminal is staying. This means automatic alignment with the reporting register and the sexual offender file. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Thirdly, compulsory professional bans. In the case of certain serious crimes, it must be mandatory to ban a profession, because child abusers have nothing to look for near children. [[Complementary with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Fourth point: Youth welfare and the authorities must, of course, have access to this information. Other institutions, such as schools, should also get information from this sexual criminal file. In my opinion, the increase in the criminal framework for sexual offences is also essential. It needs hard punishment for tormentors. Ladies and gentlemen! For comparison of property offences and sexual offences, I would like to give two examples. In the event of rape, the same level of punishment as in the case of a theft threatens to exceed € 50 000. Furthermore, sexual abuse of unmistakables is threatened with a lower punishment than severe theft. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A five that you exhibit to the Minister of Justice! Everything's missing!]] That is why we need to see that we put in place appropriate measures here. Prevention is one, punishment the other. [[Complementary with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! To avoid all crimes and crimes in advance, a country without criminals, that would, of course, be ideal. This dream has once had a former Minister of Justice – a dream which I can realistically not win anything and which I do not dream of. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mrs. Justice Minister is a Broda student!]] As an interior minister, I am a realist and go to work with open eyes. That is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to take this opportunity to express my express thanks to the police officers of Austria, also here, especially on the occasion of various discussions that we have had in Austria over the last few weeks, now away from the case in Amstetten. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In my opinion, the last days and weeks have shown above all two things in connection with the work of the police: First of all – and that is very important to me – the work of the police works much better than it is sometimes presented in public. As regards crime, there is a 9.3 percent drop in the first quarter of 2008 – which, of course, cannot mean that we can lean back. Blueeyeness is not appropriate. Of course, there are problems, for example in the area of youth crime; Problems also arise as to the brutality of the dispute in various offences. For example, I am thinking only of the deadly attack on the District Council of Vienna Gottfried Natschlager. Especially in the last few weeks, there have been spectacular cases and actions that have been solved by the police in a short time or have led to arrests. This started with the poisoning of the mayor of Spitz, Dr. Hannes Hirtzberger, as well as with the acid attacks in Upper Austria; the robbery of the collapse in the SPÖ party headquarters could also be ensured in the course of our very targeted compensatory measures in the border area. So different and different the actions were: In each of these cases, the police have done very good and meticulous work. Within a very short time, the alleged perpetrators could be arrested. That, ladies and gentlemen, is neither a matter of course nor a coincidence. However, police successes are more evident in such spectacular cases than in other cases. – Of course, it is that we need the best police equipment, that we need state-of-the-art investigation methods, and that the police must also have the necessary powers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am now also addressing the police's official action against these Romanian criminal gangs, whose members have spent themselves as police officers. And I'll be right there to a second point. Police are often automatically targeted by unwarranted, yes evil criticism. That's what I'm trying to keep from doing! It can't be that the day-to-day work of the police is basically made poor and in doubt. [[Complementary with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Police sometimes put their lives at risk. Every year, some 2,000 police officers are injured, very often by foreign violence. Three officials were killed in service last year alone. Police officers often have to decide and act within tenths of a second. Therefore, my clear and urgent appeal: Let's support the work of the police! The police from Austria deserved this! [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of SPÖ and BZÖ.]] The police service is not a playground; every day there are new challenges, every day also risk. Let us therefore, through a serious political discussion, create the conditions for a trusting relationship between the population and the police! Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. This is a fact that cannot be denied. And this does not change either by cruel crimes that come to light, for they are certainly not one of them, “typically Austrian”.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e8442	I would like to thank Mr Platter for his statement and now give the floor to Mrs Federal Minister for Justice, Dr. Berger, for 12 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e8463	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you for this opportunity to comment in the House today on current issues of the protection of violence and the rights of victims. Of course, such an opinion is not possible in these days without reference to the crime of Amstetten. It is a particular need for me to express my sympathy for the victims of this crime and to give assurance that, as Minister of Justice, I will make every effort to ensure adequate solidarity and respect for the victims. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] What has happened to the victims of this crime cannot be remedied, but we must try to avoid further damage or at least limit it. I am therefore pleased that it is possible today to provide legal and psycho-social support to victims in the ongoing criminal proceedings through the means set up by the Ministry of Justice. I think we managed very quickly to help the victims with a very competent team of lawyers. Our all goal must be to help the victims find a way to deal with the violence they have suffered, and to help them build up feelings of trust and security – feelings that they have not been able to develop so far. The case of Amstetten is, in its dimensions, “unique” from its extent; of course, in a negative sense. However, the basic pattern of this act, the suppression of others, violence and power, the use of physical superiority, is the same as in many acts of violence that occur every day in our society. The fight against violence in its various forms of appearance, in particular family violence and violence in the social environment, is an important concern to me in the face of the high darkness that is typical of this form of crime, and also, apart from the current occasion, a focus on the work of the judicial body, which I have set myself in my office. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] Of course, criminal proceedings play a central role in the fight against violence. It is intended to help victims to have a right to justice, to make a clear, ambiguous allocation of responsibility to the perpetrator and thus also a public assessment of the act. In recent years, we have succeeded in shaping the criminal justice of victims, for example, legal and psycho-social process support, as mentioned above, has been introduced. There is now the gentle agreement of the victim in criminal proceedings that will help the victim save the recent confrontation with the perpetrator in court. During the current legislative period, victim protection has been further expanded, on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, and we have set up a central coordination body for victims of crime. With the criminal process reform, the one with 1. In January 2008, there are numerous new information and legal remedies for victims of crime. ==References== In January of this year, we have established special powers at the major prosecutors, prosecutors and prosecutors, who are particularly concerned with the victims of domestic violence. In this respect, we also place a special emphasis on the education of judges and judges. A particular reason for this statement is also the fact that after longer preparations this week I sent the Second Violence Act for review. This proposal for a Second Law on the Protection of Violence aims at improving protection against violence and improving the legal status of victims. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a lecture! Do you have an opinion, or do you have to write it all down?]] I believe that this draft law gives the right answers to many of the questions that have been discussed in recent weeks. This Second Anti-Violence Act is a major reform in the field of violence since the Anti-Violence Act 1997. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] It should bring more security from violence, especially from sexual violence against children, and I am very pleased that I have received full support for it in the preparatory debates, now also for the Federal Government's meeting. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a “real” heart affair, as you see, with you!]] I should like to mention some of the points made here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A “great” heart attack is yours! That's what you see! A cold fridge is warmer than you!]] We are creating a new state of violence with this Act of Violence: If violence occurs regularly in a family, the courts have so far been forced to break down these longer-term violent relations into the components of the individual acts of violence. This loses an important point of view, namely the fact that the victims also live in fear of this violence in the periods between the various acts of violence. Instead of the individual snapshot, the courts can in future use the new § 107b to value the whole injustice of such a violent relationship. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The next time you give the speech, and we will read it through! At Parliament's entry point, you can leave it!]] The new state of action means a clear strengthening of the threats of punishment against continued violence, as it is typical of violence in the family – violence against women, violence against children. The highest penalty associated with this new violence will be 20 years. Another important point – I think this is important in the debate on the lookout that we are having – is a reform of the advertising obligations. There are currently a wide variety of different rules in terms of display obligations. ==References====External links== In December 2007, among other things, a revision of these regulations aimed at creating uniform and strict advertising obligations for all professions dealing with children in the event of suspicion of violence to children. The Ministry of Justice, as commissioned by the Federal Government, therefore took place on 5 July. A round table was held on 1 March, involving all the professional groups concerned. As a result of this discussion, we propose, in the draft Second Law on the Protection of Violence, that, in the event of violence against children, we create an advertising obligation for all those who already have the duty to provide for the physical and mental well-being of children. It is about school doctors, school doctors, kindergartens, staff of youth offices, but of course also about the parents themselves. The exception for this obligation to display should only exist if the advertisement is directed against close relatives. If the father beats the child, then the mother living with the father is not obliged to adjudicate, but if, for example, the ad would be directed against an educator of the child. So the signal is: Whoever wants to prevent violence and to prevent violence must look, he must not look away and show! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you don't understand that yourself, Mrs. Minister! The mother who knows about it must not show – or how is that?]] We are also re-establishing judicial supervision of sexual offenders in the implementation of the joint decisions of the Council of Ministers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The mother who knows about it should not show? That’s “great! ”]] These are particularly strict judicial controls, as the criminal code has not yet been known. A combination of instructions, therapies and probation assistance should ensure better protection against sexual offenders in the interests of the general public. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Can you repeat this: the mother who knows about it should not show!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] At the same time, the probation periods for these sexual offenders are extended. However, if a sexual offender – I must stress this here – has committed the entire penalty, he is no longer subject to criminal control measures due to constitutional considerations. Here, for example, other control measures need to be taken – control measures that the legislator can take for certain professional groups, control measures available to us within the framework of the security police. The new judicial supervision is a special form of control for sexual offenders. The court gives the sexual offender instructions on therapies and lifestyles, such as for the distance of certain places such as schools and kindergartens, for displaying the change of residence or for the purpose of exercising a profession. What we also foresee in this Second Law on the Protection of Violence is the implementation of a resolution by the National Council on a professional ban on sexual criminals. However, the Ministry of Justice's proposal goes beyond this resolution by not only providing for employment and professional bans, but also for the introduction of bans on activity. Our considerations have shown that the concept of a professional ban on sexual offenders is too short. There are many activities which we cannot achieve with a mere ban on the profession, but which we want to take part in. These are areas such as supplementary education, voluntary childcare and youth services or other voluntary activities in the youth sector. These activities would not be covered by a single professional ban, but we will cover them within the framework of this judicial supervision which we are now introducing. Also in the implementation of a resolution of the National Council, the Ministry of Justice has ordered that the existing criminal frameworks we have in the area of sexual offences be submitted to an investigation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You'll announce this for the third time!]] Here we are exactly on schedule: We will be able to present the results here before the summer. I myself have already pointed out several times that a number of inconsistencies have occurred by means of the 2004 Criminal Law Change Act. To date, for example, I do not understand why there is no minimum penalty for the fundamental acts of sexual necessity or sexual abuse of a defenseless and psychologically impaired person. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why don't you understand? We told you this a long time ago! You don't understand! Then do it!]] I would also like to point out that we are already coming to an increase in punishment in the form of persistent violence through the introduction of a new crime. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] With this Second Violence Act, we have also taken precautions to ensure that it is possible to set up the sexual offender file in the Ministry of the Interior, so that all reports necessary for this file are also available to the Ministry of the Interior for the Sexual Criminal File. It will be necessary to extend the period of eradication. I myself have put forward proposals to this end; other proposals will be discussed in the Federal Government, and we will also include them in the law in accordance with the review procedure. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You didn't say anything now, but your speaking time is over!]] I should also like to point out that we also use the Violence Act to implement measures which can benefit the family directly in Amstetten, namely by introducing legal process support and other measures in civil proceedings. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Your time is over, Mrs. Minister!]] That is, I think, something that can become effective in this family right now. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Your time is over, Mrs. Minister! There's an agreement! You need to read a little faster next time!]] With another step – and I may mention this in conclusion – we will also make provision under the Family Rights Change Act in order to ensure that the criminal register can not only be looked into, but also needs to be looked into. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We have an agreement! What kind of agreement is that?- Oh, my God!]] I should like to ask all of you to support these measures in the interests of the victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e8708	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, spoke. Agreed speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e8730	Madam President. High house! We were all unscrupulous and horrified when we received news from the media about the incidents in Amstetten, and our first thought was for the victims – the victims and only the victims! ==References====External links== On the other hand, there is a need for a debate to be held today on the subject. He meant that Parliament “must provide the proof” – I agree with him! “that it finds a worthy means between justified horror and some reasonable considerations about future prevention and pure demagogy”. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] I think that is exactly what should lead our debate today. – The calls of Klubobmann Westenthaler are no contribution to this. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But neither does the speech of the minister!]] And if you're talking about failure, you should remember that colleague Gastinger's downwards you held this place and that's why you can at best work out the failures in a self-critical speech here and nothing else. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not true!]] I'd like to tell you this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, I would like to point out that today the Council of Ministers decided unanimously on a speech. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is no different, it must be unanimous!]] The two members of the Federal Government, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice, have also brought this into line here as a basis for their deliberations. We shall also put forward a motion for a resolution here. I believe that the gaps raised in the presentation, which have been reflected by the events in Amstetten, are to be closed in the implementation, in the clarification that we have to decide here in the House. But it is not only appropriate to express compassion for the victims, but it is also important that there be material help and psychological support for them. On this occasion, it must also be noted that, in particular, youth welfare and parole aid need appropriate support for their responsible activities, both financially and humanly. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is also important – in addition to this, yesterday’s “domestic report” on television provided an important indication by means of a contribution on education, information in schools and for parents as well as students – to contribute to prevention. Because if we are always only discussing the increase of the criminal frameworks, we are already discussing something that has already happened. It is important, however, that we take measures that this does not happen. Violence in the family is also a reality in Austria. Violence against women, violence against children – a sad reality! Victims and perpetrators are among us. The dark number is bigger than we all believe. Therefore, I think it is necessary to be aware of this once. Petra Stuiber today called for some sort of adjustment to the myth of the “sacred family ” in the“ standard. ” We are all their followers and want there to be functioning family structures, but we also need to see what is happening there and there. There are initiatives at a wide variety of levels. For example, former German Chancellor Vranitzky launched an initiative against violence in the family years ago. It is also important that one is aware of his responsibility. This is about the responsibility of the state, society, the authorities, each of us, of all of us. A courageous civil society is in demand, looking and not looking away! This is a very essential aspect. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I have read very carefully in the "standard" what the Minister of Justice has meant when she said that there was also a certain degree of credulity of the authorities. I would agree with this: a credulity of the authorities, for example, when it is pointed out that a daughter is now in the hands of a sect, but also a credulity of the authorities in this case, on which Peter Rabl took his stand in the "Kurier" of 4. May refers by writing very strikingly – I quote –: “How can we refrain from any investigation or ad if three babies of an supposedly inconceivable woman are placed at the doorstep of the grandparents within three years? “ There is a certain credulity that one must be aware of. I do not make any debt allocation here, but I believe that the authorities are very busy, but I believe that we must all be involved in this thinking process. Perhaps this credulity also contributed to the fact that everything that could happen there – not exclusively, but also! And of course the legislator is also required – all of us! – to take steps here, to see that, to pick it up. In this context, I welcome the idea of strengthening the right of adoption. The case with the three children has shown particularly clearly that even in the case of privileged adoptions, an examination, an insight into the criminal register must be mandatory. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There will be this criminal register – and it has to be taken into account! I think this is a very essential aspect, which is also to be taken into account. But I would also like to say something about all the points on which the Federal Ministers and the Federal Minister have mentioned some of them. Firstly, the principle that sexual offenders are no longer allowed to come into contact with children on a professional basis. – This is a very essential sentence in this Council of Ministers' speech, which is a guideline that will really be followed. Secondly, the principle that in the case of sexual offences, the time limit for repayment may be extended by the judge. In the case of particularly dangerous sexual offenders, the eradication period should be doubled. In the case of serious sexual offences, the eradication is even excluded. – This is a clear statement, a clear step! This is where gaps are closed. I think it's very important that we start the work in this direction. Thirdly, the employer's exclusive obligation to determine the suitability of the applicant in certain occupations relating to children. – This is the area where children are protected, that there must be professional bans on sexual offenders. A very basic idea that should guide us all! Not polemics should dominate the discussion today, but the concern for potential future victims! It is important that we establish protection mechanisms here. That's our commitment! That is why we have been elected here: that we take steps in the legislative and executive fields, so that there is security here, so that in the future the contribution is also made here, which is expected by the population of us. Not a scream, not a polemic, but steps and measures are needed, which are really effective and trust in the authorities, in society, in the institutions that are called to do so, and which really help to prevent as much as possible! This also includes – and this also says in the lecture inside – thinking about harder punishments. Yes, you can think about an increase in the criminal framework, but it is also right to evaluate what the practice of pronouncing looks like. It is important to look at how this is handled by the courts at all. So there are essential points that we have to deal with before, without regard to whether it is effective, without regard to prevention, without regard to whether one can protect potential victims, after more and higher penalties. One should examine this, but one should also be really aware of the overall responsibility in this regard. All these are points that we have to accept. I have one last point to make. I have spoken here about the responsibility of every individual, the society, civil society, the authorities, the legislator, but there is, as I think, also a responsibility of the media, and we do not believe that this responsibility was assumed by all the media. So it happened that for the second time, victims became victims. That's unacceptable! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] This is primarily linked to a commercial background. There is a commercialization of misery, fate. What individual media have done is, I find, morally especially objectionable. We are called, as I mean, to respond with criticism in all clarity. Let me conclude by saying: There is nothing worse – especially in the case of sexual offences – for the victims and for the consequences. It can destroy her life. It can have cruel, terrible effects on their mental and physical development. We are therefore called upon to do everything possible to counter this in order to protect against it. We need to create and implement the relevant laws here. It is only this that we are finally to be measured. This should be the guide to future work if we put it into law and implement it here!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e8862	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Schüssel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e8883	Madam President. High house! We are probably all very hard to find politicians, media and the public the right words in view of this horror. Ludwig Wittgenstein once said: “If you can’t talk about it, you have to keep silent!” But what Austria is talking about and what one is talking about far beyond Austria – it has become a European, a world theme – is something you need to talk about here too. Where, if not here, should we address these issues? Talking is also a piece of therapy – for us, for our country, for our society, for this situation! The difficulty of finding the right words also shows the helplessness of dealing with it. It starts with how to name it. Is it a case of Amstetten, as many international media have written, the “Incest case Amstetten”, “Dungeons & Austrians”, the “Herald Tribune” has entitled: Losing and Austrians. Of course it's not a "fall amstetten", it's not a "fall Austria" – but what do we call it? In my opinion, it is not a case of the victim, Natascha Kampusch, for example. It always bothered me that the “Fall Kampusch” was spoken. I think we should be careful to make the victim the subject of a case, it's the perpetrator it's about! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and FPÖ.]] It was Priklopil, it's Fritzl! We often find it difficult to identify the causes. In my opinion – I really do not want to polemize – it is certainly not the Austrian soul or the Austrian in itself. I'm quoting the editor-in-chief Fleischhacker, who said: “The chatter from the aftereffects of the Habsburg Empire, Metternich, the Biedermeier, the state of the stand and Hitler to the loss of Amstetten is a nonsense.” – It's really so. We don't need a campaign, that's just a house mind, and that's what you're supposed to say. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] What it is about and what I think is the real cause: There is evil in the world. It is not always monstrosity, it comes in the form of the everyday. It is the beast man who can be well dressed, fully integrated, well behaved, apparently well behaved when dealing with others. There is this evil, even if we like to compliment or minimize it from the world, even if we want to banish it into the realm of horror films or the video games. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] And it's about guilt. In the Bible there is the image of the scapegoat: The people's or the world's debt is being charged with this, driving it out into the desert – and we're free from guilt again. Just, it just doesn't work that easy, but we don't want to have to deal with these things in our seemingly healing world. We also do not want to see that there is an individual, an incredible... – I am actually ashamed of the positive words that have been mentioned in this context: “genious” and “intelligent”. That's not it, it's terrible! It is an individual, and we also want to name guilty institutions – the authorities, the neighbors, the wife. I believe that we must guard against these shorthands, as a logical consequence, to quickly pass a law, as far as possible secured by a popular opinion poll. As a rule, it is always 70 percent, which then intervenes for a certain measure, harder penalties in this case, and the subject is cut off. But it's not that easy! I therefore believe that, and we should say this honestly: No proposal made here today, not even by me, nor by us, could have prevented this crime at human discretion. We have to admit this. But what it's all about is that we now think together, become brightly visible, what we can do for others – and hopefully never. And that is why it makes sense, as the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice have also shown today, and we have also reached a joint decision in the Council of Ministers that we think about harder penalties, that we also implement them. It's not about the deterrence! We already know that killers, by whatever threat of punishment, can usually not be deterred. It's not about revenge either. But it's about something very basic: It's about justice. I also say very openly: If property crimes in Austria are often more severely punished than sexual crimes, then this justice, this balance no longer, ladies and gentlemen! [[General condolences.]] Or if someone – I don't call the name now; You know who I mean – a child locked up for eight years, locked up worse than in a dungeon, and in the real world of execution he will sit less long, under much better conditions, then this balance will no longer be true, ladies and gentlemen! And that's a big thing. [[New general appeal.]] The same is true of the question of limitation. After a certain period of time, a crime is delayed, i.e. the perpetrator can no longer be interested. Do you know what that means? For example, if a bull was abused – such cases existed in the Catholic Church, and they were persecuted with great attention –: The limitation period will start from the 18th century. First to live, but after ten years it's over. The perpetrator can never be interested again. Once a girl is raped by his own father, once – if it continues to happen – the limitation is interrupted, then it is delayed after ten years. Friends, that's not going to happen, there's justice and balance hurt! [[General condolences.]] What's going on is: I am the last one who wants a public prangler, and I think it is positive that the minister first offered a doubling of the time-limits. It is also important that you continue today and, together with very serious sexual offences, carry virtually a permanent ban on eradication. I think that's good, because you have to say one thing: Especially when driving criminals, the whole life of this drive is awake and alive. Now I’ve looked at myself – honestly, I’m not an expert – as this looks like in practice, for example. A manufacturer of a child porn – a manufacturer, please, not any one who then looked in, but one who made child pornography – has been absolutely condemned for eight months. It will be destroyed after five years, and the criminal record certificate will be removed after three years. After three years you no longer know in the criminal register whether he has ever produced such a child porn film. – I can't do that. It just hurts the balance! And this will be understood by everyone who is able to understand and care for the people, the victims, the weakest of society. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] Or: Heavy sexual abuse of unmistakables – please, that's rape –: Condemnification to a year! You really have to discuss this in the Judicture, because the criminal framework is, of course, much higher. But we also need to think about the Judicatur of Independent Justice in a democracy, ladies and gentlemen. We are allowed and permitted. [[General condolences.]] So: Condemning one year, eradication after five years – criminal record certificate: After three years, it's gone. That's what it's all about! I think we don't want a public prizer, but these things are sensible and should make us clear how we deal with these things and questions. Of course, the police also need search instruments. That's clear. And I totally understand the objection that some have: Is that appropriate or not, online surveillance, video surveillance and so on? I understand, because there must be legal controls. But on the other hand, our security device needs those tools that are necessary to get to track of the crime. The young man, who has the death of our District Council wettester on conscience, was degenerated very quickly only by a video camera that was accidentally switched on at this place. Therefore, we should also be careful to deal with this balance between security of privacy and the protection of the good of public security, ladies and gentlemen. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] I believe that we must go deeper and respect – I am now saying as a man to men – that we have to deal with a problem of violence, with All-powerful fantasies, mostly male all-powerful fantasies towards women, toward children, also toward others, weaker men. – That is also the reason why many of us today bear this symbol of the White Ribbon, the symbol of the abandonment of violence from men to others. We must see that 90 percent of this violence is exercised by men, and there is no point in looking away, because a large part is practiced in the family, by the own father, more by stepfathers, by friends, by relatives in the family. And that's not the end or questioning of the family in itself – really not! – but we need to strengthen the family. We must encourage women and the weak in particular to defend themselves. There are women’s houses, there are the “Möwe” under Martina Fassleven, who care for abused children. There are child protection centres, there are family services that offer help. But what exists too little is the help for men with problems. In Berlin, for example, there was an attempt at the Charité, a poster action “Do you love children more than you love?” and there were hundreds of reactions from men who have practically asked for help here. That's what we should do. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] Or the idea of Hannes Missethon, who considered training camps useful for juvenile offenders. We should talk about these questions, incest, abuse in our own family, very, very openly. Looking instead of looking away is a good motto. And as far as the media is concerned: I suggest – I have no more time to speak – that we make a common parliamentary survey on media law and victim protection before the summer, because what has happened here cannot be taken away, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e9083	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e9105	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Given the monstrosity of this crime, it is, of course, necessary – not only legitimately, but also necessary – to think about the various measures – in criminal law and, above all, in prevention, in prevention, if at all possible. My colleague, Albert Steinhauser, will comment in detail on the measures in criminal law. We also believe that there must be reforms on certain points, especially during the limitation periods. You cut it, Dr. Schüssel: Ten years – but many victims only come out much later with history, for understandable reasons, and it is more than unsatisfying that in such cases, according to current laws, the act is deemed to be limited. Similarly, the adoption procedures in the case of Mr. F. – I avoid the terms “Fall Amstetten”, “Fall Österreich”; it is Mr. F.’s monstrostic crime – that in these adoption procedures the court apparently could not know what pre-punishment was – and at the moment I assume that it is correct, what has been reported that such pre-punishments were in place. But the criminal law alone, it has already been said, the criminal law alone has the crux that it suspects crimes that have already happened. The big question is: What measures can be taken to increase prevention in order to give more space to prevention? One of the points, apart from the points that are obvious, I come to the point immediately, but an important and very difficult point is, so to speak, the cultural assessment of the family in Austria. It is almost always men who commit such acts of violence, men in an authoritarianly dominated family, in which the Father is regarded as the love of God – in which this comparison is already blasphemous; it is not a dear God, but an absolute ruler, who views the children as his property, as his own, and the wife the same. Here a lot has changed in recent years and decades, but apparently not enough. It's still looking away instead of looking at when swirling about such conditions, who wears the pants in the house and so on, and that a man "goes a little bit" when he controls his family authoritarianly. In the meantime, I realized that when I was a little girl in Tyrol, where I grew up, when you asked another boy or girl, as he/she is called, you weren't the point of speech at that time: Wia häshst?, but: Who do you think you're doing? – A very strange phrase. “Who are you g’hashing?” Who do you belong to? Which court do you belong to?, but it also swings with this possession that the child is the possession of someone. And you really have to watch that in everyday life and not watch when children are beaten et cetera. That's a lot for all of us. [[General condolences.]] In addition, there are many women and men in kindergartens, in schools, in social offices, in youth offices, in youth welfare – usually women – here also better trained, better trained and more staff. It is not so easy to see what is going on, for example, when the child shows behavioral constipations in kindergarten or school, which it has not shown before. You can't call the police or after the youth office on any such occasion! These are very delicate weighting cases for those concerned, where they need the best possible training, and as far as I am informed, at present in kindergarten and teacher training is at least on the verge of talking about such things, but there is no systematic training for such issues. Barbara Zwerschitz will still comment on this. What is certainly not going on, Mr Westenthaler: Preschool children each quarter to check for signs of sexual abuse. Preschool children every quarter...? – I mean, are you really...? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Violence and Abuse!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There is already! In Germany there is already that! In Hesse! I'll explain it to you afterwards!]] They'll explain this to me afterwards. – I am afraid of that already because what you want here means to attract generations of disturbed children, to have disturbed parents! That's crazy, what you're proposing here! [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If you are announcing a mistrust against Minister of Justice Berger in this context, I can only say: without the Greens! On the contrary: The careful approach of Minister of Justice Berger, the unhysterical view of the problem, the consideration: What can usefully be done?, that is the commandment of the hour! And here the Minister of Justice deserves our support. [[It is in favour of Greens and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the ÖVP.]] Minister of Justice Berger has also said in an interview that some credulity with the authorities involved in this case could already be seen. And everything is not all right, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened in this context so far. An interesting letter of readers today, in the press, by the way, of a civil judge highlights the question of how the so-called absence curator behaved in this case. De facto, a material injury to this daughter, who was abused by her father, has come out, and the competent district court has agreed. There are possible administrative arrest procedures to the Republic of Austria, and I am right to say. The victim cannot be sacrificed for the second time and for the third time in this way. I thought it meant well, I suppose, I don't want to make a difference at all, well meant, but highly problematic if the head of state of Lower Austria provides his personal trust attorney to this family. There's an inconsistency here! This lawyer has to represent the interests of the affected family, and nothing else! And if he is at the same time active for the country that might be affected here, there is a very clear inconsistency! [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] A word about the media, about the protection of the victims in the media. – I do not believe that it is enough to say that most media in Austria have complied with the limits that are required here and some have clearly exceeded them, but we need measures to ensure that this does not happen in the future! [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP, SPÖ and BZÖ.]] If in a weekly magazine in Austria on the cover, so in a kind of criminal card – it seems at first sight! – to bring pictures with a full name for the victims, this is a very clear border crossing that requires appropriate sanctions! And here I also expect from the government parties a reflection on drug law measures, damages measures, measures that are so serious that such a breach of privacy can no longer happen in the future! [[Congratulation with Greens, SPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ.]] To conclude: The Federal Government – German Chancellor Gusenbauer has announced this – plans a kind of image campaign abroad. What's that supposed to be? Abroad! Here you go: Again, a national shoulder closure against the evil foreign media who have written unbearable sluts? - That's right, at least many. But what's that supposed to be? An annotated campaign and the like? Please, not this embarrassment, in “La Stampa” for example – if I still have time, I go on it – add another one! The money the Federal Government has provided for this advertising campaign – and it undoubtedly has to be hundreds of thousands of euros, otherwise it doesn't make any sense at all; and in your opinion it should make sense – that this money should be sent to a fund for the children affected. That would actually have permission! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e9216	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Strache. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e9239	Mr President. Minister and Minister of State! Today, under the agenda item, we are discussing current issues of internal security about the dramatic crime that has taken place in Austria, the Causa Fritzl – I am expressing the name of the perpetrator – who is of course appalling us all and is affecting us all. And I have already said here, one can and does not even want to imagine what is going on in such cruel beasts that have been active as perpetrators in recent months and years in Austria. There have been several cases that have moved and touched us all and where we have also had this horror in us. We also do not want to understand such human creatures, and I do not want to break my head over what is going on in such a perpetrator, in such a beast and how to restore the peace of soul for such a perpetrator. That's not what I want to know. I say this because in the last few days I have always heard so-called expert opinions. There are so-called experts who always break their heads about how this perpetrator's soul is now and how you can help the perpetrator therapeutically. That's not what moves me, I'm saying that openly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Moves me: How can I help the victims? How can I make sure that people don't get into the situation once again to have to run into the hands of such a perpetrator because he is released again and can strike again as a repeater? – That is what moves us and the people in this country. This is not about increasing prison sentences, because this would have a preventive effect and would prevent acts as it is said. No, of course, this does not have a preventive effect, but it is about this justice, which has already been shown and stretched out very beautifully by many speakers today. It is about justice, first of all with regard to the limitation periods referred to, for which one simply cannot understand. Secondly, we must also impose minimum penalties, but there are some minimum penalties that are under any criticism. You have to think about it. It can't be that someone has been incarcerating a person in a basement for 24 years, raped, raped his own daughter at the age of 11 – and then may have to expect a minimum sentence of ten years. That can't be! Then I say, at least the double of what he has done to the victim, at least the double of 24 years he has locked up this victim, if not even life-long for such people, namely, really until natural death! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is about justice on the one hand, not about prevention, but about justice, and on the other hand, it is about helping such people no longer therapeutically. I think it is a crazy approach to say now that Mr Fritzl, at the age of 73, should be treated therapeutically and should not be imprisoned at all, but in a closed medical institution. This is just as crazy and leads to an misunderstanding in the population. If it is a first-class offender who commits a slight sexual offence at an early age, a therapy makes sense that you start there and try to help with different methods. We have also said that in the case of drivers it would of course be useful, also about medical treatment, speak chemical Castration, to think about this drive, which is present and will always be present, to stop medically and thus – in addition to accompanying therapy – also to ensure that it no longer becomes a relapse culprit. There's a place to sit with help. But it makes no sense for a perpetrator who has repeatedly become criminalized in these areas and has committed such serious sexual offences, such serious perverted sexual offences. I would like to have another legal approach in our society, and I am convinced that there will be a change. That's what the remarks show today, and that's nice, I really have to mention: Every speaker in each group has said something very reasonable about these problems today. There are, of course, always differences of opinion in detail areas. That is also a good thing, and we should also discuss it very carefully, but I recognise that no one here will go to the agenda. This must not be the case, although we unfortunately said this again and again in other cases months ago. We must now take action, and we must now implement the many good proposals that exist as quickly as possible. And we have to make sure that in this legal system, which has flaws and where mistakes have been identified today, we are setting up. We need to consider how we can improve this legal system. And I am already saying, Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, that it is not about being approached with caution now, but about ensuring justice and the protection of people from such perpetrators. I want to know that for sure. Of course, one should be wise, but not too careful, please, but as soon as possible. We want to know within a period of time until summer, i.e. in the next two months, another package that may go beyond what has been presented today. Some reasonable things have been defined in the Council of Ministers today, but for us this is still too little. We want more, because we want a wider package of measures. It is also too little for us to say that a sexual offender should now have a professional ban on professions that have something to do with children. That is too little, because if he is moved in freedom and is not accompanied by it, and if the punishment of the crimes he has already committed has unfortunately already been used by God, then it will be of no use to us if he has a professional ban on vocations in connection with children, for if he wants to find children, he will find which if he is free in our society. That is not the way to ensure this protection! That means that we must also define these protection mechanisms more closely. There are some right approaches when you say the eradication should fall. One should, of course, have the opportunity to check this out in the future. It cannot be that one who has committed sexual crimes, such as Mr Fritzl has committed a rape and has also been active as an exhibitionist, has had 18 months to do so – rightly, but also 18 months absolutely do not seem to me very much if I evaluate a rape – then still children can adopt! It seems to me very well what Klubobmann Schüssel said that if we face property crimes against body and life today, we have a wrong situation here. It can't be that wealth of our society is worth more than the protection of a person's life and body. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It simply must be the protection of a person's life and body first in our society! That is why we say that we want to know and securely understand zero tolerance in this area towards such offenders. We also feel no mercy for perpetrators like Mr Fritzl, as we see the victims in the foreground. And today we are also proposing a package of measures, where we address many areas, where we are putting the protection and assistance of victims in the foreground. Of course, it is also about prevention, not a question, but once acts have happened, one must also block such perpetrators away accordingly so that they cannot commit such crimes again in society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to make a very conscious point at the end of my speech. The civil court is important, yes, right, and we must all help to lift it in our society. But I also believe that the obligation to display is the environment and the environment. And I didn't understand that the Minister of Justice said today that a mother should be excluded when she sees and knows that her husband beats and rapes children. It can't be! I believe that this advertising obligation for professional groups, but also in the area of the family, is something quite, absolutely necessary, because it cannot be that you simply go “free house” when you have seen it for years, followed it, and did not act. This is a very important point, because we are also saying that if you do not live and keep silent about this civil court, you will be excused. This is important to maintain in a rule of law which takes itself seriously. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also say quite consciously: It also includes so-called experts who draw up opinions and work as experts – and repeatedly issue blatant misjudgments as regards the risk of falling back on sexual offenders. I want them no longer to appear on a court expert list in the future. They must be deleted if they produce such incredible misrepresentations. Something has to be changed here. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] To conclude: We are critical of the Minister of Justice on many issues, but we will certainly not make a political change today, nor will we be insidious, for we are concerned with the issue of seriality. But we say that you are on a test scale for us, so to speak, and we really want to know a concrete package of measures over the next two months. That's what we expect from you. If you do not ensure that, then it is certainly also appropriate from our site to evaluate accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e9378	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e9400	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! We are also affected and shaken by this case, and we have also expressed it. But we have to say one thing, because it is now being done as if we were thinking for the first time that we were thinking about strengthening laws, as if we were going to take such a case for the first time to demand improvements in this area: We are not here for the first time discussing child abuse, sexual abuse of children, but we are discussing this For months now, even years! It was the BZÖ, which started intensively a year and a half ago, with urgent questions, with actions here in Parliament, with requests, with legislative and initiative proposals to raise awareness of the issue. It has not required Fritzl alone to think about where we should start, and that is our criticism. We have had the case of Kampusch or Priklopil, if we want to call him so, where we have discussed: Is it true that the tormenter of Natascha Kampusch, if he had survived, would have received a maximum of ten years of imprisonment as a punishment, but took half his life to the child? We had the case of Luca, only in the autumn of last year, where a grandchild was beaten to death. It was about a little boy who was deprived of his physical father and beaten and beaten by the stepfather several times over a long period of time until he finally died. And already then we discussed the subject of youth welfare. And back then we discussed: Will the controls help? Mr Van der Bellen, at that time the idea has already arisen, and we have brought it into the House that we preschool children should also be subject to medical supervision on a regular basis. And there we are not alone: ==References====External links== In January of this year, this system has already been implemented. North Rhine-Westphalia and Bavaria are in the process of implementing it. And there are first ideas to carry out such mandatory regular preventive investigations on the violence and abuse of children across Germany in order to protect preschool children from it. There will be no family, there will be no fathers, nor mothers who are afraid of it if they have not been blamed. Then they will be happy to go and participate in this system if we protect other children from having to experience abuse in the preschool age, Mr Van der Bellen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We had the Innsbruck baby murder: three children killed in the basement, hidden for five years. Although you know the perpetrators, it is delayed, and you can't harm the perpetrators anymore. We discussed the limitation at the time and said something was wrong in the system. We had a six-year-old girl in Vienna who was raped and abused by a freeman in school. That's the second time he's ever abused a child. By the way, he was sentenced to six years in prison in January. Six years! He's been behind him for a year since the case, that is, five years. - Is that a just punishment? Is he gonna be free again, Mrs. Justice Minister? Is this one of those freemen who may be released in advance in the context of the relief package? That is, we have such cases without number, since there are not only the prominent cases: There are 1,200 serious cases of abuse a year. 20 000 cases are the dark ones. Every fourth girl, every sixth boy before the 16th. Age of Sexual Abuse Mrs Minister, this is our accusation: Time and again we have discussed this, you have made announcements again and again, you have presented studies, everything possible – and nothing has happened at all for a year and a half. That's our criticism. And that is why we no longer have confidence in your judicial policy on this issue, Mrs Minister! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Nor is it because you have taken quite different measures at this time: While we discussed this, you released 88 sexual offenders in 2007, including 83 rapists. Is there someone who has fallen back? How many will it be this year, Mrs Minister, where the debt relief package is going to hit? Will it be more that you release early? This is not the prevention, it is not the deterrence when it is signaled that such perpetrators who commit sexual abuse in children are also released in advance! We reject that. We want it to be prohibited for such perpetrators to be released early on. They'll have to put off their punishment until the last day! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To the professional ban, Mrs. Minister. – Nothing has happened to this day, for a year! ==References== May 2007, exactly a year ago, we made this request here, and he has found the majority of four parties. For a year, nothing has happened with regard to professional bans. And what do we have now? The next current case in Upper Austria, in a school in Reichraming. Imagine: A legitimately condemned sexual offender, in the sense of child pornography, is now suddenly to be released to the children as a teacher! Mrs. Minister! Minister of the Interior! Don't let that happen! Fight against such a person ever coming back to school! That's what we expect from you. This would no longer have been possible in the implementation of a professional ban, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Berger then comes and says: Therapy, a second chance. We're studying law enforcement. – Mrs Minister, we don't need any more studies! We already know that the level of punishment in the serious offences is far too low. § 92 StGB: Quals of unmistakables, from children to death – listen to this once: to death! – Here is the highest level of punishment ten years! In this country, unmistakable, children, disabled people can be tormented until death – the highest level of punishment: ten years. I am of the opinion that those who have tormented someone to death must be locked away for a lifetime, namely, truly lifelong and not just 20 years, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs. Minister, you like to talk about therapy, about the "second chance" that a perpetrator should get. – Mrs. Minister, the victims, the children and the families, who have no second chance, they are affected all their life by a terrible act, they have no second chance! So it turns my stomach around when you think about this “second chance” at all! The best protection and the best prevention for sexual offenders is that they are no longer left out of prison, that they no longer have the chance to tear another victim. That's the best prevention, that's the best protection: not to let them out of the prisons at all! Yes, child abusers are murderers of the souls of our children, so they are also to be treated as murderers! And that is what we ask of you, Mrs Minister, to do nothing more. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am now quoting what you, Mrs. Justice Minister, are saying in an interview in the “Small Newspaper” dated 24. May 2007: That is why I also demand more conditional redundancies from sexual offenders. The culprit is supposed to sit down for a few months, and then we'll tell him: If you do a therapy, you can go home earlier! Mrs Minister, this statement is not only unworthy of a minister of justice, but it is a scandal if you say sexual offenders if they report for therapy, then they may go home sooner and do not have to put off their punishment! That is why we are distrusting you, Mrs Minister of Justice, and that is why today we are also bringing in this distrust amendment, which I am doing with it: Request for Distrust according to § 55 GOG-NR of Deputies Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues The Members who have been signed are as follows: Request: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Justice is hereby approved. 74 (1) B-VG, by express resolution of the National Council, fails to give rise to confidence.’ Mrs. Minister! Man owes the child the best he has to give, is in the UN declaration to protect the children. As a politician, as a Member of Parliament and as a minister to change this, we owe the child the best laws to protect against sexual abuse and violence. And I believe that for a year and a half, you have done nothing to present the best laws to Parliament that you have actually failed on this issue. All these elements that we have discussed today must be taken into account. A criminal law that punishes a medium-sized financial offender to the same extent as a sexual offender cannot vote, there is something wrong. We need a substantial change in sexual criminal law. However, we also need measures such as the complete removal of the eradication. We know that you just wanted an extension; I hear now that it falls completely away. We believe that the eradication should be eliminated at all in any case in the tenth section of the Criminal Code. That would have been something that might have led to a different development in Fritzl's case. It might have been something different! The restrictions belong away. We need an intensification. We need a professional ban, and we need – yes! – also a sexual offender file, which provides a wide range of insights for people to protect people. I don't want sexual offenders coming from prison to settle as neighbors of a large family with five children. Mrs. Minister, we don't want to do that! That is why we need protection and control for people so that such a thing does not happen. We also need an advertising obligation! Of course, we need an advertising obligation to stop looking at the way and to increase the number of advertisements in this regard. There are only a few ads – just a few hundred ads! – compared to thousands of cases we know. Mrs Minister, we need a special position on child protection in the criminal code! That must be guaranteed! No equalizing and no comparison with any other offences, but a special position! [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] We must give the child this special position! You, Mrs Minister, have not done this, and that is why we are expressing our distrust to you today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e9618	The proposal tabled by Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. Your speaking time is up to 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e9642	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Appreciated listeners at the gallery and in front of the TV screens at home! Especially irrational crimes require a particularly rational response. – For example, a staff member of the Ministry of Justice has made a big word in connection with the terrible crime. This also means, however, that politicians in particular must act rationally, that they should not vote in revenge, but that they should seek serious solutions and not operate cheap populism. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But act!]] Mrs Bundesminister In my opinion, Berger is a guarantee for this. That's what she's shown today. This also means that media representatives have a responsibility in the nature of their reporting. It must be in all our interest to first and foremost protect the victims and not to let them fall victim to once again by the sensational greed and the resulting media hype. [[Congratulation with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] The photos have already been addressed today. I find this really scandalous and extremely reprehensible. With all the understanding of the right to information, there must also be limits for journalists who cannot be exceeded! [[General condolences.]] With all the understanding of the call for tougher penalties, ladies and gentlemen, we must not overlook the fact that this crime we are talking about today could not have been prevented even with harder penalties. I am therefore convinced that there must be a bundle of measures to prevent crime, to protect and support victims and to punish the perpetrators. I believe that the call for tougher penalties is far too short. The call for a quarterly investigation of children is just too grotesque for me. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There is already! That exists in Germany! Look at Hessen, it's going to be done there! Mother kid pass!]] I am truly convinced that a very important point in the fight against violence in the family and in the fight against sexual violence, apart from the points already mentioned today, is above all the strengthening of children and women. [[Congratulation with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] Children must be allowed to say no if things happen to them that they do not want. We need to make it clear to the children that they are never guilty of the injustice that happens to them, that the guilt is always with the perpetrator, and that it is important to talk about injustice that happens to them. For silence strengthens the perpetrators and weakens the victims. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] To that end, we must all create an environment that takes children seriously. People who listen to the children need people who trust the children and, above all, work in a partial way for the victims, and people who protect them from the violent offender. Much too often – and we all know this – is the family of the crime scene, and that is why I am convinced that we all have to work to ensure that society condemns everyday violence in the seemingly often healed family as much as crimes outside the family. This violence must not be impoverished under any circumstances. I am also convinced that children and women need to be strengthened in their self-esteem. And it must be possible for women and children to get out of violence without the concern of society. This was by no means given in 1977, when this terrible crime originated. Authorities and society were not as sensitive to the theme of “violence of children, violence in the family, ” as we thank God after many years today. Dear Members! Dear colleagues! Dear ladies and gentlemen! A lot has also been talked about in the last few days, and again and again a little bit of conversation has been made that we Amstettners – I am an amstetner – or even the Austrians would have liked to look away too much. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: How could you have seen this perfide crime? I am convinced that everything must be done to solve this terrible crime. But I don't think I'm fair to the Amstettners. There is no “fall Amstetten”. There's a case of a single culprit. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Many amputees are affected, speechless, sad and angry. And we too are plagued by the question: Why didn't we see that? But there is also a great wave of solidarity with the victims, and there is a great willingness to help. I would like to thank all the Amstetten and Amstetten for this. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would also like to thank Mr Primarius Reiter from the Amstetten Hospital, for his persistence was due to the fact that the case has come into play. I would also like to thank the police, because her empathy has made it possible for the woman to talk about her terrible martyrdom. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] I would also like to thank Dr. Kepplinger for protecting the victims from being again victimised. I wish we were able to support the family on the way to life as much as possible. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign the other day]] The willingness in Amstetten is given – and I am very proud of that as an amstetner!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e9766	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e9788	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Today we are discussing one of the most disgusting crimes ever known in Austria – so disgusting and incredible that until recently it was almost unimaginable for the people in Austria and obviously also for the people around the F. family. I find it difficult, yes, to use the word “family ” in this context is almost impossible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] Family as the place where children are at home, where children are to experience and learn love and security, family as the place where Elisabeth F. and her children had to experience violence, terror, abuse, horrific suffering, the place where Elisabeth F.'s mother, the wife of Josef F., obviously was so intimidated by the pressure and terror of the authoritarian patriarch that for 24 years she had spent the double life of her husband, whom he had lived in the immediate vicinity, according to previous knowledge, not to see that she did not notice or questioned any building work or food for the prisoners or that she also questioned the sexual abuse of Joseph F. from the 11th century onwards. His daughter was born to Elisabeth, who remained hidden. The wife's sister summarized it in an interview in a single sentence: Everyone was afraid of him. If it remains to be hoped that the dimension of this loathsome crime is indeed an individual case, then violence, mental terror, abuse in many too many Austrian families is unfortunately still to be found – in some occasionally, in others often daily. Much too often there are observers or even fellow-consuls who are silent about this. Violence – in whatever form – is and must not be and will not be a cavalier offence. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] Violence is and must not remain private to those concerned! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Tolerance of violence – in whatever form – is a preparer for such crimes as that in Amstetten. Therefore, our goal can only be: Zero tolerance against violence! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But that also means that we can't all look away, in our own family just as little as in the circle of friends, in the neighborhood, in the kindergarten and in the school. 95 percent of the victims of domestic violence are women and children who need our protection and our help, who need our voice because they themselves are silent because they are helpless and defenseless who need our help in strengthening their own personality and in the way out of a violent environment. The intervention agencies against violence, which have been funded by the Ministry of Women and the Ministry of the Interior since 1999, are doing important work both in direct assistance to those affected, such as through legal assistance, psychological support or assistance in building an independent new existence, as well as in the further development of laws and measures to protect violence. I am very grateful for the legal measures adopted by the Council of Ministers today. The need for a sexual offence file, as proposed by Federal Minister Platter some time ago, has been dramatically confirmed by the case F.. He has shown in a terrible way how inconspicuously for his entire environment, even for controlling authorities, a rapist can continue his crimes. We need such a file to protect potential victims. We need the extension of the period of eradication and no eradication in the event of severe sexual abuse of children and young people. We need – as Klubobmann Schüssel has said – an extension of the limitation periods, because victims often remain speechless for many years. In the case of Josef F., the victims of speechless speech will still remain for some time. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] They need our solidarity and they need our help. It'll be – if anything! – be possible to process their psychological trauma only if they have the greatest possible protection against the public. Here I appeal to all media – to the national and international media – to take their responsibility seriously and not to reveal the victims to a sensational media society.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e9890	The next speaker is Mrs Zwerschitz. 5 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e9911	Mr President. Ministers! High house! “Unbeatable” is on this T-shirt. [[The speaker points to the T-shirt she wears.]] “Unbeatable” as a sign against violence against women. Since this T-shirt is from the Federal Youth Office, I allow myself to wear it today as a sign against violence against children – against violence against children, which is unfortunately far too common in Austria, because it is still far too common for us that children are not considered to be independent personalities but are too disciplined and sometimes misinterpreted as property. The Federal Youth Office is also committed to the UN Convention on Children's Rights, whose Article 3 states: All appropriate legislative and administrative measures must be taken to ensure that the State, in respect of the rights of parents, also takes responsibility for children and young people. Of course, this also applies in the field of youth welfare. In the field of youth welfare, we are currently working out a new law. The question, however, will be whether this law can then be implemented, whether we have the possibilities we need. At the moment, scarce 900 full-time social workers are in the Austrian service. These are responsible for 1.7 million children. They are expected to know exactly where abuse cases appear and what to do in a serious case. I'm sure that's far too few. I am sorry that only now Minister of Finance Molterer has left the hall, because I would like to ask him to have more resources in the area. The social institutions are certainly not sufficiently equipped with us. I have been talking to several social workers in the last few weeks who have told me that they have some months of time compensation because they do so many hours of overtime that have told me that they cannot comply with the standards they are supposed to meet in order to monitor care facilities to visit care families regularly, because they do not have the time and resources. In Austria, youth welfare is often a “fire department”. There are people who have to think about it every day: What is the most urgent case? What do I have to do first? What would be necessary to prevent? We'll be far too late for the prevention to take place in criminal law. In countries such as Denmark, 98 percent of parents accept a voluntary offer from the municipalities. This offer means that parents already becoming parents have regular contact with the social authority. There is a steady number of contacts between parents and the social worker, which are partly also in the house Come on. She supports and advises the parents. It is not just for control, but for positive educational work. It also has a network of institutions behind it: Logopäds, physicians, crisis facilities, psychologists, psychotherapists. In Austria, this network is far too little. There are very few places of crisis especially for small children in Austria. In Austria, the application of the most limited means is often the use of the cheapest means. This is not always the most educationally valuable thing, but that which we can afford and which the social worker can just put up. In Austria we urgently need more prevention work, even so that such cases as we now have in the newspapers cannot happen. How should social workers pay better attention to families, how should they better control who adopts a child, who takes care of a child if they are not equipped with the appropriate resources? Since we in Austria always, if we ask for this, receive the cost question immediately, I would like to point out a study by the Institute for Conflict Research, which it published in 2006. 78 357 200 € costs domestic violence in families in Austria. That's what this study found. These are costs of police use, legal costs, which are costs for subsequent care of the victims, but these are also costs due to, for example, loss of income. €78 million! If we take some of it to do prevention work, then a big step would have been taken in Austria, then we would not have to manage shortages, then we would not have to play through crisis scenarios constantly, but then we could really do preventive approaches that ensure that families in Austria have a assistance position and support. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Then it might not be that in the Styria it is now time to work with the new association law educational assistants by €4.5 because the money is not there and because we now have to join clubs. Then we might also have more school psychologists and not only the announced 20 percent increase, as we heard from Minister Schmied. We need to invest in the future of our children. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] We need a complete restructuring of youth welfare and uniform quality standards. And it's high time we don't always stop at the punishments.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e9997	The next speaker is Mr Vilimsky. 5 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e10018	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have a case to debate today, which is so moving and which is so beyond all the imaginations of the normal human spirit, that I would have expected some touch on the responsible leaders in the government. But the untouchedness, the passionlessness, with which today the leaders of the Interior and Justice Department, Minister of Justice Platter and Minister of Justice Berger, have read down here something from the paper that any Cabinet staff has prepared for them is a disgrace as policy is reacting to such a truly tragic case. [[Abg. Hoefinger: No!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The central moment of today's debate is proportionality, which is right for Klubobmann Schüssel: How does society respond to a case of such tragic reach? That's right, just: The proportionality, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, has not been out of the lot for many years and decades, in which child abuse and sexual offences are condemned in a way that is much too mild and in which we can no longer talk about a general prevention at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to highlight the background to why this is the case: This goes back to 1973, your Minister of Justice Broda and his criminal law reform, which today still contains the liberal elements in our criminal law, which do not give us the opportunity to judge cases in the same detail. I would particularly like to take the Greens into account in this context, because: You remember the eighties when your friends debated the release of sexual relations with children in the Bundestag. And you must also remember your group leader in the European Parliament, Mr Daniel Cohn-Bendit, the “red Dany”, the pillars of the Green Movement and the sixty-eight, who writes in “At that time in the children’s shop” – I quote, I do not spare you –: “My constant flirt with all children soon took erotic trains. I could really feel how the little girls five years old had learned to touch me. ... It happened to me several times that some kids opened my pants and started caressing me. I reacted differently depending on the circumstances, but their wish presented me with problems. I asked her: “Why don’t you play one another, why have you chosen me and not other children?” But if they insisted, I would still strip them.” I miss the removal of your group leader in the European Parliament, where your Voggenhuber is also sitting. And especially you who call you so often after distance from anything: Do you have the courage to get out of here and also to distance yourself from the paedophile past of your Europe Member? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We know the growth of all these developments. Whether this is Mr. Allemann, who received the Ingeborg-Bachmann Prize with the story “Babyicker”, whether the Jack Unterweger was, a prostitute murderer who was hailed as a “hafenliterat”, whether the Otto Mühl was the one who photographed his pedophile fantasies in the Vienna Secession and also with the support of the red municipality of Vienna: All this is the insanity that has happened in the past decades and where we have fire on the roof today, that finally something is changing for the better. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No mercy, no tolerance or consideration in cases of this kind! We are therefore making the following request today: [[Quoted print version removed]] You, ladies and gentlemen, will be able to measure how you are now dealing with this whole matter: whether you are throwing out your crocodile tears somewhere today, whether you let the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior read any passages of the paper or whether you are really willing to put the appropriate sharpness and hardness in the event of a violation of this type in accordance with the law. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e10113	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vilimsky is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e10198	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Five minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e10219	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! It has often been spoken of as a responsible way of dealing with this terrible crime – even here today. This is certainly the right thing to do: These terrible crimes must not be instrumentalized here, especially in the interests of the victims. However, they must also lead to consequences. We all know, Minister of Justice, that, as you have said, by measures we are now taking, this terrible case cannot be prevented – no question. But in this case it is not only about this criminal case, but it is also about preventing many, many other cases – hopefully, perhaps – in the future. This case is at the forefront, but in the last few days and weeks we have also had to learn about many other criminal cases, such as this terrible act of alleged young people – this is already an insurrection: a 20-year-old is not a youth! – one of which is without reason a district politician who dies from the consequences of this act; or a twelve-year-old who rapes an eight-year-old; the Luca case is now in court; and there are still a number of such cases. Ladies and gentlemen, responsible handling is correct and important. No event legislation, Klubobmann Schüssel has said – also right. But why are such measures discussed only when something happens? – I remember: My group, the BZÖ, has made several requests in the past, for the last time in December of the previous year, for initiatives, for urgent questions. That is exactly what we are discussing now! And – I read in the Stenographic Protocol – at that time it said: Where's the urgency? Why are such initiatives now? Party-political populism!, we got to hear at that time. It was said that everything would be evaluated anyway and it would be considered and sometime already measures would be taken. And now something happens again. And now we're being discussed, and we're hearing again: Yes, you have to look at that, you have to check it, you have to evaluate! – This is the unword at all in politics: evaluate. That's just that you don't want to act now. Yes, why not, Mrs Justice Minister, by abolishing, and not now on the basis of this case, the time-limits for sexual offences, abolishing limitation periods for acts of violence, introducing life-long surveillance for sexual offenders and professional bans? Why is this so difficult? Is there – and this is just the suspicion and my suspicion – not yet that Broda’s ideology principle, which reads as follows: In fact, it is not the culprit who is guilty, but it is the society that is responsible for the perpetrator's becoming a culprit!Unknown term type: "%s".? That is what we need and, above all, you must finally say goodbye! It is not about the rights of the perpetrator, it is about protecting the victims! Es It's about the right to be wrong. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] It is also about the remaining risk of a repetition, of a relapse, not of society, but of the perpetrator. And especially in criminal acts, as in the sexual field, are those where, of course, there is also a disease – a normal person does not do such a thing – and if a disease cannot be treated, then society must be protected from repetition! That's prevention too! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] In this area, life-long criminal prevention is a threat to all victims who might be at risk. When I hear the police have to be supported, I remember: Yes, today we are again discussing the support of the police, but just a few days ago, police officers using their gun had to be torn by the media with a discussion about whether this was justified and whether it would not be necessary to initiate appropriate proceedings against these police officers. – You would also expect your support – not only in Sunday’s speeches, if this is an occasion now, but also then you should support the police when they are in use! [[BZÖ and FPÖ representatives are welcome.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the protection of victims: Yes, the protection of the victims is important, but I fear that this protection will not be granted. Some medium will succeed again, pictures of the children – I have already heard, “Incest children” have been called them; impossible is such a name! – to take, there will be photos again. And in the newspapers, where the commentators criticize these photos, these photos will be brought back on the chronicles pages – without reaction and without sanctions. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] There is a lot to be done by media law and also by the self-evaluation of the media. Mrs Minister for Justice, not politicalize and not polemise, but act! – You have recently neglected that, but we demand it from you! We will see whether we are elsewhere in a few months than where we are now, or whether we have managed to go through a current discussion again.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e10314	In the sense of the President-in-Office's agreement, I set out the next two political groups with a speaking time of 5 minutes per speaker, but please all of them to comply precisely. The first is Mr. Dr. Jarolim. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e10338	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I was very pleased that today's discussion is far from complete, with only a few exceptions – on the statements made by Mr Westenthaler, I do not want to say anything at all, and your derailments, Mr Vilimsky, I am very sorry – have been taken very objectively. It is also the responsibility of this House to show solutions that can in fact be called such cruel crimes. In this context, there should not be any attempt to obtain political small sums and, for example, to accuse the Minister for Justice of the fact that they are Declaration did not present “emotional enough”. I really think it is unbearable what Mr Westenthaler said about it, and I think it is this case that it entails this cruel crime, which is also presented here with a certain catchment. However, the fact that this is now being blamed shows that this debate has been tried by two speakers in one direction, where I only warn against further developing it. I really appeal to everyone here to continue this debate as they, until, as I have said, to two exceptions, all speakers, including Mr Strache, have started, namely, a solution-oriented debate. By the way, Mr Westenthaler, I should like to point out: From the year 2000, your party has been responsible for matters of justice, so making itself up here and regretting certain events of this time is quite unbearable! – I can inform you, Mr Cot: In this short period, Ms Berger, the Minister for Justice, has implemented a lot of things that has not been done before. In this context, I refer only to the central coordination body for the victims of crimes, to numerous information and legal opportunities and to the special area of the prosecutor's office, which deals with violence in the family. In the discussion today – and that was, as I say, a positive sign also outwardly – was presented that it is not a question of preferring a solution by saying: We take action, we decide to impose more severe penalties, and that is the solution! Of course: The criminal frameworks will be examined, and a working group has been set up to do so, with all of us invited to participate in this discussion. However, it is also important to stress that: Look instead of looking away!, in public, but also in private spaces, because: Violence is nothing private, abuse is nothing private! So look at this. Where does something happen? – and if something is happening, to communicate it so as to enable it to be stopped, the victim can be saved as soon as possible. It is also important to examine, to look at: What happened there? This, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be delegated to anyone: not to politics, not to the National Council, not to Parliament – nor can we say that the police should act, because it starts with the fact that in one's own home, in the neighboring apartment or elsewhere the consequences of violence are perceived, screams and so on. In such cases, there must be the possibility – and it must also be our all self-understanding – that the stop is offered. As politicians, we should also be a model and have a discussion about bringing about social change. That is why the responsibility for conducting such discussions is so great. We must point out in this context: It is our duty and obligation, both in the public and in the private sphere, to communicate any perceived violence in order to give the opportunity to stop it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On this occasion, too, something that is not directly related to this case and its effects, but which has been discussed in recent years, especially my party, the Social Democracy, has always been a vehement advocate of the fight against violence: I believe that we will also have to deal with all those “games” – under quotation marks – in which violence is glorified. We all know video games, we all know movies, in which once and for all a summit is sought, a further increase in violence. If there are games in the trade for children in which the killing of people – although virtual – is more or less represented as “solution”, then we must not be surprised that there is a total brutalization of society, something that nobody wants. So I believe that this is also a responsible way of dealing with it. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] I think the message here today should be: If we do this together, then violence can be combated. All we have to do is want this and everyone has to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e10422	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. Five minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e10444	Mr President. Mr Berger! Values Mr. Platter! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Undoubtedly, all of us here – and this shows, I believe, also the concern in this debate – are quite unspeakable in view of the terrible actions of Josef F., actions that we receive daily in ever new and ever more horrendous details. I think we all ask ourselves the same questions over and over again: How can a person be capable of such cruel actions at all? How can a person do all of this to his own daughter for decades? What is going on in such a person for so many years, over such a long period of time? And, of course, the questions: How could such a thing happen? Why hasn't anyone noticed anything for so long? The question must also be asked – and this is of particular relevance to us here in the House: How can such terrible crimes be prevented at least in the future? I believe that this is a question that we must deal with even more intensively and also with appropriate speed. Clearly, once again – and this has already been stressed several times here today – it cannot be a hundred percent security. Crimes, especially if they are exercised with such precision, with such a perfidy as in this case, will not be completely prevented in future with the best legal and regulatory measures. What we can do, however, and what I think is precisely our obligation, our responsibility as a legislator, to consider quickly, not only to think about it, but to implement it speedily and quickly, to protect measures that constitute the greatest possible obstacle and to protect the potential victims, who are mostly the weakest of our society, namely women and children, from such terrible acts. That, ladies and gentlemen, was also the reason why we were already here in the House on 22 February. Last March, a resolution was adopted, with a very large majority, in which we asked the Federal Minister for Justice to evaluate the penalties in the area of sexual offences, and in which the aim of the House was clearly formulated, that there should be sanctions, that there should be a reduction in the focus, and that professional bans should also be remembered for such perpetrators. For this very reason, because this is important to us and because we have the responsibility to take measures that are possible, there were in the last few years. Weeks very intensive discussions on possible and necessary steps in this direction. I would just like to mention some of these measures and repeat them because they are, as I believe, very essential. On the one hand, I still believe that higher penalties for certain sexual offences are not only superior, but they are very concrete. Just this terrible occasion of the last days has shown us: If the victim is still dead in the event of a rape – already awfully enough – then there is a right to life-long imprisonment as a threat of punishment. But if, as in this case, many victims for more than 24 years are often abused in this case probably a hundred and twenty times, they are locked up for 24 years, then 15 years of imprisonment is the highest penalty. I believe that life-long detention as a threat of punishment would also be justified. We have already heard today that it is also about extending or abolishing withdrawal periods, setting up a sexual offence file and allowing representatives of different professional groups to understand this file: precisely in terms of the protection of the victims. Thankfully, some of the measures have already been announced by the Minister of Justice today, and other measures are still necessary. In order to show here the emphasis of this House, Parliament, on this point, I should like to make the following request, in relation to the necessary measures: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I mean...
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e10541	Your speaking time has long ended, my colleague, I am sorry! The motion for a resolution you have tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. [[In the case of the ÖVP, as well as the SPÖ Members for the document leaving the speaker's seat. May. Donnerbauer.]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e10663	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. I ask for exact compliance with the 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e10685	Ladies and gentlemen! It is probably not yet possible to say whether the authorities are taking responsibility. But one thing was already striking: The first thing that was found was the claim that the authorities are alleged not to be responsible. I think that's unacceptable. To give such a blank resolution quickly is the wrong access to this case! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now there is a real evaluation, not such a dance as during the kidnapping case of Kampusch. Now we need to look at what we can learn from this case. There is no need for walls, but it is a question of asking the right questions and also trying to give the right answers. What questions do we have to ask ourselves? – For example, we should consider whether everything really works optimally in the missing analysis. The fact is, the daughter of the suspected culprit disappeared at the age of 19 and did not show up for 24 years. The fact is, there are a few dozen cases in Austria in which the disappearance of the persons is completely mysterious and unexplained. And the fact is that the legal situation in the event of disappearance is unsatisfying. Not walls mean looking at the problems. Let us look at whether we need special missing agents and whether we need an extended legal basis for missing information. It is our responsibility, it is the responsibility of policy to clarify these fates and bring the children back. Another important lesson from the case of Josef F. is that the abuse that began very early in the victim, namely at the age of eleven, was not recognized. If one had recognized the abuse at the time, one might have been able to prevent worse. What do we learn from it? - Without making anyone an accusation: We must start with prevention and recognition! We need to teach the educators that they can recognize an abuse and that they know how to deal with abuse. If we do, we will be an important step forward. But it is clear that: Authoritarian and patriarchal structures are the feeding ground for such crimes. These attitudes, which are unfortunately still widespread in some families, must be firmly opposed! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are now a number of proposals, and it is important to clearly demarcate itself from the BZÖ, but also partly from the FPÖ. We want to prevent future crimes, we want to protect potential victims and thus achieve greater security. In the case of BZÖ, one has the impression that it is primarily about revenge, whether it prevents a single crime or not. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true! It's not just the culprit protection...!]] I ask you, if you come now with large demand catalogues: You were in the government for seven years, why didn't you implement these demand catalogues – such as chemical castration – that you're supposed to be so convinced of? – I tell you why you did not implement them: Because you're not convinced of it yourself! Your security package is a security placebo. This is populism, that is actionism, that is instrumentalization of the victims, and we distance ourselves from it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's clear that sexual criminal offences are not cavalier crimes. The law must also make this clear. However, I am not satisfied with the expertise of BZÖ's just-politically little-furnished clubman, since I would rather rely on your study, Mrs. Bundesminister. Longer penalties no longer bring security, they don't scare a perpetrator, they don't reduce the risk of relapse – we know that. Talk to experts, listen to them, then you can learn something more! [[Abg. Strache: You're always trying to get out of the culprit's perspective!]] Security creates prevention and therapeutic measures. Therapeutic measures are often described as being mild or understanding for the perpetrator. You didn't understand – it's about victim protection! [[Abg. Scheibner: We don't need you to do that!]] It is about preventing further victims with therapy. That is the aim of this measure! [[Abg. But we don't need a culprit! You're doing culprit programs, that's absurd!]] I'll tell you one thing: Look If you look at the statistics, the relapse rate decreases with additional therapy. What you're doing is dangerous, because you're offering quick solutions that are preoccupied with security, and because you're fooling the people in this country in their security needs. Mrs Bundesminister, we are opposition, you are government; we are not always of the opinion. In dealing with sexual offenders – that is what our clubman has already expressed – we appreciate you. You do exactly the right thing: You think about measures, you can't be driven by populist demands, and then you discuss them with experts. We will therefore not support the motion for a reluctance, which we do not agree with, but we hope you will continue this path. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] Then you will also have our support on this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e10785	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e10806	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, it is true that the increase of punishment is not the cure. But it is equally true that it is obvious that the history of criminal law in recent years has been marked by the fact that one has only gradually recognized the seriousness of the types of offences of this kind in the true dimension. That was in my time, if I may say so, legal youth decades ago, yet God does not know the case! Still today is what Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel said: Condemnations in the face of asset crimes are more violent than the violent Judicture that prevails in Austria. It's time to change that! And it is not up to the appeal to appropriate increases in relation to the delin- quenz types, which we are discussing today, to detonate as revenge desires. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is now no way past the realization that criminal justice is part of the legal system of the general state, that it is part of social satisfaction, and that this is part of the principle of justice. Criminal law is usually or often not a general-preventive type of holding effect, but a compensation process that society absolutely needs in order to be okay! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] It is part of the unvalued feeling that articulates society with which criminal threats it equips certain types of crime, and it is therefore high time that we turn the screw in this direction. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Something else I hope to speak towards the government bank: The multiple appeals, which we regrettably had the opportunity to present in this House and which affected the cases of Luca, Kampusch and this case, have been taken away with arguments such as: We have other measures, which is too short, which is not sufficient. A whole catalogue of arguments was directed towards moving away the legal requirements we have articulated. Now it's over! On the occasion of the current case one can no longer go to the agenda and feel that the laws are in order. Second and last: The Austrian population is no better than the Belgian, French or Italian – but it is no worse! [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We do not here let ourselves be put into a light with a different look at the former sanctions situation, which is completely inappropriate. In this respect, I would like to call a quite Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e10904	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e10984	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. The speaking time of a maximum of 5 minutes is also valid for you. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11005	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear spectators at the gallery and at home! In advance, I should like to tell Mr Steinhauser that even the Greens should be aware that drivers are only to a minimum therapeutic. In this case, just one – as you call it – must be applied chemical culls. A chemical castration is the only way to become a driver. On the other hand, in addition: The high return rates for the drivers, for the sexual offenders in themselves, are not reasonable to the security of our society. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But in order to address the surprisingly presented package discussed today in the Council of Ministers, I must say from our and especially from my side that it was really a positive surprise and announcement, which is to be implemented here. It was not possible throughout the last year to obtain only some information from the government in this respect – in the countless initiatives from our side, in the committees, in the plenary sessions. There has never been any response to our requests, to our concern to get movement into matter here, to carry out a reform of criminal law here. Today, solutions will be adopted at this meeting. Thematically spelled out. I would like to stress once again that we see this very positively. We also hope that the positive announcements will ultimately leave something. It is striking today – and that is very interesting to me again – that different wording is in relation to the extension of the criminal framework. The Minister of the Interior came from: There will be an extension of the criminal framework for sexual offenders, for sexual crimes. The Minister of Justice has: We will look at the extent to which an extension is necessary and can be implemented. That means that there are again completely different lines that are represented here. It can only be hoped that, in the sense of the Austrians, an extension will not only be ‘seen and assessed’, but that there will be a concrete extension of the criminal framework for sexual criminal offences. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the other hand, Mr Jarolim said: Yes, something has already been decided in the past year, namely a prosecutor's office, which specifically deals with violence in the family. That too is positive. Only: On the other hand, what does this mean, Mrs Rechtsminister, if I hear from your opinion, from your announcement of the planned reform of the obligation of notification that there should be no obligation of advertising in the family in particular? Just where the most serious of these crimes happen very often, there should not be an advertising obligation for family members! How will we come to this information? – That’s exactly where it’s happening, right there we have to sit! Your approach is really going in the wrong direction, and I hope that a different solution will be found in the final draft law. Ms. Justice Minister, you made the announcement yesterday – fortunately it has been supplemented today by your announcement of the abolition of time limits in serious cases – that you want to tighten up the right of adoption and want to take a look at the relationship in the case of privileged adoptions, namely the criminal register of relatives. This is, of course, an essential step to support from our side, but really only as an accompanying measure to abolish time-limits for sexual offences. A next point – and this is also the main criticism point with which I support the mistrust amendment against the Minister of Justice – is the inactivity of the motion for a resolution of 3. May 2007, which we have jointly decided – with the exception of the Greens, and with this the line is not quite clear today: Are the Greens for a professional ban or not? – Last year they opposed, they did not even want to read the application. But last year we decided together, and until 1st. September 2007 should have been a comprehensive report from the Ministry of Justice explaining the possibilities to enforce a professional ban, which would have resulted in a legislative initiative by the end of March. Well, there seems to be movement now. It is bad that there has been absolutely no steps here in the past year and in the past months. Finally, I should like to refer to the resolution tabled by the FPÖ. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] I conclude by saying that we cannot accept the motion for a resolution on tougher penalties for the protection of minors due to the non-encompassed differentiation with regard to bedtime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11090	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11111	High house! First of all, I would like to thank all the colleagues who have been willing to cooperate in this serious situation in the debate today. I think it is an hour's commandment to maintain a proper and respectful approach to the victims; I think we are all required, but also the media. We all have to take back and not be allowed to beat political capital out of a tragedy that has recently been out of our scope. I think that even possible misunderstandings are completely missing here. High house! We must note that violent crimes, as terrible as they are, are a sad fact of our society. Such a thing, such a terrible crime, can happen everywhere, in any city, in any country of the world. This terrible event – child abuse, incest, loss of freedom from one's own children – has deeply shaken us all. I would therefore also like to thank the police, in particular those in Amstetten, who, through their wise and committed action in this case, have made the whole cruel dimension of this act manifest. I would also like to thank the people of Amstetten for their solidarity with the victims. Mr Platter, Federal Minister, said that prevention cannot prevent everything; he is certainly right. I would therefore also like to say that sexual offences in particular leave cruel psychological and physical traces in the victims who often accompany them for a lifetime. Therefore, every prevented crime is an invaluable profit for our society. I therefore believe that in prevention we are all required, including politics, on the one hand, by providing well-trained police officers in all regions to the same extent and, on the other hand, by adopting legislative measures, as they have already been remembered and decided in the Council of Ministers today. We in Parliament will still have the debate to take place and the decisions will have to be taken. This is about extending the time-limits for such penalties in the area of sexual offences and violent offences accordingly, completely excluding them in the event of serious sexual offences and preventing the adoption of a child by a sexual offender. It is about improving the rules on the obligation to notify security authorities in good time. In order to protect our children, it is a question of significantly improving the right of directions, and it is also a question of ensuring sectoral bans for such perpetrators. I think it is also right that we should make available the sexual offender file, which already exists in part in the Ministry of the Interior, in accordance with the law, as well as those authorities which have appropriate responsibilities, and public institutions in the field of childcare. I also believe that the debate on increasing and exploiting criminal frameworks is quite legitimate. We should also discuss the relationship between punishments for property offences and sexual offences. Not only is policy required in the framework of prevention, but it also requires all regional policies. peaches. We have just seen in this case that, at all events, the networking did not correspond entirely to the fact that coordination did not work, that perhaps one was something slightly credulous, as has already been said today. It is therefore necessary to examine the improvements that are possible here. The media are also called upon to think about where the The border between sensational lust and the protection of victims and the protection of the private sphere lies. Finally, as citizens of this country, we are all required to help by looking more and not looking away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11169	The next speaker is Mr Kößl. Speaking time: also maximum 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11191	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Above all, I would like to say that it is very, very important that this debate exists today. As Deputy Mayor of the city of Amstetten, I would like to join the thanks of my parish councillor Königsberger. It is truly a pleasure to experience with what solidarity and with what closeness in the Amstetten community the participation of the victims is granted and everything is made to help these victims accordingly. [[General condolences.]] But it is also very, very worrying, and in the last ten days I have really had to find out with regret with which piety different media go to work. When you hear from media workers: What do the victims do to me? when they are addressed and asked to leave the victims alone, then I really want to say that it is time for us to discuss how to deal with the media in the future. We are called upon to take real action to avoid such situations in the future. The criminal case of Fritzl, which is being repeatedly addressed today, is of course not a criminal case of Amstetten. This crime of a single perpetrator can, and must be clear to us, take place everywhere in every community, in every country. We are called on to create legal frameworks – and some of them have already been decided in the Council of Ministers today – so that in future it should be much more difficult and possibly impossible to implement such abuses and such crimes in fact. It must also be clarified: This case has also moved the most wretched criminals very much. It is hard to understand with what precision and professionalism the perpetrators have prepared this act in the long run. In the last few weeks, it has always been said that anyone has to be guilty of this crime story. I don't think a debt allotment is appropriate at all. It is clear that the police, the authorities and, of course, the municipal administration – of course, all the construction measures that took place in this House – did everything to prevent such a situation from happening. There have been all surveys and also investigations by the police and, of course, also by those responsible for the district administration authority. We must not forget that over 100 tenants have lived in this house in the last few decades. In this house hundreds of people are out and out and didn't notice anything. The neighbors didn't notice anything. To claim or even to say that the authorities – whether police or district administration – would have failed here or not to do everything in order to prevent this situation from happening or not, is simply wrong in itself. We are really called and demanded – I have already mentioned this – to change the laws, the legal framework in the near future, so that in the future there will be no more or can be held back such crimes. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] From this point of view, I would like to say a warm thank you to all those responsible who worked so professionally in the Fritzl case.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11251	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. 5 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11272	Ladies and gentlemen! Some reasonable words have already been made by representatives of the SPÖ, the ÖVP and, I think, of us in this causa. I don't want to repeat it. I am glad if, as soon as possible, a victim protection package is brought to this House by the Minister of Justice and we can advise on it as soon as possible and with as much success as possible. A single question has not been asked today, and this is not only a very essential question for the victims, namely: Have the authorities, from the police to the county captains, in the past taken the necessary care in all respects? And there is one point where at least questions are justified: How could it have been that in the first, second and third cases, in the case of adoption, and in the two subsequent cases, the district captain and his employees, the relationship of origin, as foreseen in the ABGB, have not sufficiently been examined? This is a very crucial question for the further development of this case and for the opportunity given to the perpetrator to continue his crimes undiscovered over a long period of time. This question remains open, and this question must also be clarified in the interest of possible future victims. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] And then something happens, and I'm also looking for the Minister of Justice for information. Mrs. Dr. Berger! ==References====External links== May states that the Lower Austrian head of state has the victims – and you say: Unfortunately! – urged his personal lawyer. And then this personal lawyer, Christoph Herbst, makes the “Morgenjournal” on 28 November. In April, the Commission adopted the following decision: Ms. Thurnher asks him if the authorities have really looked at it closely, and the lawyer explains the victims – literally! –: “Apologise if I don’t fully agree with this reconnaissance.” And then he continues: “I would like to say, however, that until today, just as I get the whole thing, there is no sign that there are any government errors.” Alexander Van der Bellen pointed out that there is a classical incompatibility here. A victim's lawyer only has to represent the interests of the victims on all sides, not only to the perpetrator, but possibly also to the authorities. And it is not likely that the personal lawyer of the head of state who has been forced here will be represented by the possible interests of the victims against the country of Lower Austria and the district headquarters. [[Abg. You son of a bitch!]] Is that even an experienced lawyer on victim protection questions? – It turns out: The trust attorney of the head of state Pröll is a purely attorney who has never had a victim case that has nothing to do with this matter. Ms. Justice Minister, you have been involved in this case and have made sure that an experienced Vienna lawyer, who has already cared for many cases similar to the others, takes care of the victims as much as the victims deserve, namely, with the highest level of professional qualifications. However, we cannot stand at this point. The interests of the victims must also be represented to the authorities, and I hope that the competent members of the Federal Government will ensure that the head of state of Lower Austria no longer interferes in this procedure in an unacceptable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11318	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hauser. The maximum speaking time of 5 minutes is also valid for him. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11339	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! Mr Dr. Peter Pilz just held that ÖVP, SPÖ and probably the Greens have given reasonable speeches here today. Estimated Dr. Pilz! I would say to our group that over a year and a half, we have tried to introduce reasonable initiatives here in the House, but they have been rejected by the government groups and also by you. I do not want to say that this terrible case could have been prevented, but in the meantime, of course, many effective laws could have been passed that make it difficult for sexual offenders, for example, to be present in the environment of children. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can bring a case from Tyrol as an example and from the “Small Newspaper” of 27th century. Cite May 2007. Editor Michael Sabath recorded the following in the “Small Newspaper” of the time, about a year ago: “Highest time. – He wants to continue to exercise the function. With all the strength he means. The deputy mayor of a Tyrolean municipality and former VP-functionary has been legally condemned. To a fine of 9 000 euros after having secured child pornography and films on his computer. The fine Lord still confirms his innocence and can't even be called away from the mild punishment as the deputy head of the congregation. A withdrawal procedure shall be possible only after a sentence of at least one year’s imprisonment. That is to say, we have here a deputy mayor of a community of Tyrol, who is still in office and dignity, because he cannot be deposed and because he does not get enough pressure to relinquish this position. [[Abg. Kickl: That's incredible!]] If we had tightened the laws in time, we might have achieved that someone who has child pornography on his office computer, of course not for a community, can work for a community. As vice-bourgeois champion, for example, he has the opportunity to go to kindergartens, go to school, meet children there, also at the football court and so on. He should be a respectable person, who can also contact children at any time. That's the problem! The initiatives of us, of our party and of other parties who have rightly proposed an intensification of the legal situation were ignored, were swept by the government parties and by the Greens from the table, and both eyes were simply pushed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What happened in the meantime? – One has accepted a very important issue of social policy. They've discussed the gay marriage enough. The last half and three quarters of the year was determined by the discussion about the gay marriage, whether you are allowed to marry at the office or not to marry, which possibilities of adoption of children you have. So that was what ÖVP, SPÖ and also the Greens here in the High House seemed important and necessary, while on the other hand they forgot the foundation of our society, namely the family. Where, then, have you been hooping or thinking over this time about how to make it easier for families to get over the rounds daily at the increased prices? Where, then, has the free tax model of family division been discussed? This was just recently rejected by the government parties! The relief of the family has not taken place. Instead, reasonable freedom initiatives to intensify the punishment of sexual abuse have been rejected and nothing has been passed on to the families. If you look at a daily newspaper today and find that the first quarter of 2008 was a “raubritter-quaartal” and the government has taken six percent more taxes than in the same period of the previous year and that every family will have to pay 400 € more per year, then I have to say that it is time to think about social policy and finally to deal with the family as the core of our society and not to constantly discuss issues such as homosexual marriages, or also to try to introduce discussions and literature to schools in the schools about gay and gay marriages. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] This is a social policy picture that we reject. We're behind the families. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11401	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11422	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Watchers at home on TV sets! Violence has many faces, and one of the most disgusting faces is sexual violence and sexual abuse. One of the most inconceivable cases is that of Mr F. Nevertheless, in view of this case, which is so inconceivable, we should not forget that children suffer physical and mental violence every day in Austria too. Therefore, not only has there been a need for action since today, but it has been for a very, very long time. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the last government, the BZÖ, in particular, has developed the psychosocial process support, and has begun to tighten the criminal framework for sexual perpetrators, the children's assistance introduced or also extended the period of eradication. And the BZÖ also presented a package of measures a year and a half ago, an alliance for the children we have expanded today, and we strongly call for it. We have been demanding from you, Mrs. Federal Minister, for a year and a half, that you finally take the necessary steps. In a government that is very large in the announcements, the impression has arisen that you are incomprehensiblely inactive in child protection. Mrs. Federal Minister, you've had to be alarmed for a long time. There is no need for another terrible case like this, for you to do something, and for you to take urgently necessary measures that people rightly expect from you, namely that you submit laws, so that in the future it is no longer possible for a rapist who has raped a four-year-old child to receive grace twice, that he may be sentenced for five years, but only be held down for ten months, and then receive a conditional release and probation period; so that in the future it will no longer be possible for judicially condemned child abusers to return to the environment of schools and kindergartens, without anyone being able to do anything – as in the Salzkammergut, for example – or that a child pornography-based teacher can re-instruct children again in connection with child pornography! That is why I understand the parents, so I also understand the colleagues from this school who say that this is not reasonable, that is inconceivable what is happening here. Here I say, Mrs Federal Minister, that could have been avoided if you had acted in good time. Therefore, our mistrust of your work was and is absolutely justified. It has given us a strong impression last year that you are investing a lot so that perpetrators can get a second chance, but relatively little investment, so that there is no chance of children becoming victims. Ladies and gentlemen! To increase and tighten penalties and controls is very important and correct, and for this, the BZÖ, but we are also committed to ensuring that prevention and protection against seizures are at least as important. [[OBJECTIVES]] Therefore, the civil court, which has already been mentioned many times today, needs to raise awareness in order to understand child’s calls for help, and this can also happen with a general obligation to display it on grounds of suspicion. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] We also believe that a regular additional screening in the early childhood can do something here. This is possible within the framework of the mother-child passport. The fact that the way is not so wrong also shows that yesterday, the ÖVP Burgenland adopted a catalogue of measures and included it in its demands, exactly this is the request of the BZÖ. That is why I believe that this Parliament too may be open to this from the ÖVP side. What else do we need? – We urgently need better financial and human resources for youth welfare providers, but also for the children’s protection groups in the children’s hospitals, which have been legally anchored since 2004, because children need a reliable network that represents their interests if parents do not recognise the dangers or if parents fail to deal with children. Mrs. Dr. Rosaud Perner once said that against violence only helps the public: look, talk, help and act. – That’s why I call you: Don't keep your eyes shut! If you are now starting to give a correct answer to Mrs Federal Minister, then she will be late, but we will observe very closely and assess whether these answers to this problem are sufficient. are. Child protection work is a common responsibility, a shared responsibility of politics and society. We all have to exercise the rights of children: the right to a happy and uncomplicated life, to love and to affection and the right to be protected from violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11501	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm to speak. The television speaking time is over, so there is only a voluntary time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11522	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Michael Haneke once said that sometimes reality is far more incredible than something invented. – The inconceivable has happened. In the middle of us. In a cellar loss in Amstetten. An incredible martyrdom experienced by the daughter and children of Josef F. The brutality of crimes committed in their own family is that the perpetrators are those who should be closest to one another. Often these are the fathers, the spouses, the partners, the sons. The crime scene, these are their own four walls, in which one should actually feel comfortable, feel secure. We should also remember that domestic violence among women between the ages of 14 and 45 is still the cause of death in Europe. Every fifth woman experiences violence at least once in her life. And here, ladies and gentlemen, we must not watch. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Austria has already set a great deal of ground here. We have had the opportunity to accommodate the guests of the Council of Europe last week in Parliament, in the House. Many have come and have visited the final conference here in Vienna. And why did one choose Vienna as the venue for the final conference against domestic violence? – Because we really have a role to play in the field of anti-violence laws. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember very well when Johanna Dohnal and Franz Vranitzky began to talk about this taboo theme “violence in the family” at the time. A long preliminary work was needed. It took six or seven years for us to have a majority in the House for the Law on Violence 1 here. This was not easy, and it was not a matter of course that you finally talked about domestic violence that there is violence in the family at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I can still remember the debate on how it was conducted here in 1996, and it was a group here in the House, the FPÖ, who voted against this law at the time, because it put property rights before the right to physical integrity. Now we have this anti-violence law, and it has also been further improved and modernised. I remember we introduced the stalking paragraph. Even then we were told that this would be a dead right, that is a section that will never be applied. But the opposite happened. Of course, it has been applied. Even now, with the package of anti-violence, which the Minister has sent to the review, improvements are being made – that has already been mentioned here – and further measures will follow. For example, it is intended to extend the time limits for the eradication, to change the sex law, the right of adoption et cetera. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we still ask ourselves: How can such a crime happen? In the middle of us, in a basement loss in Amstetten? And many people are wondering: Who's to blame? Is it the authorities, is it the police, is it the family? Where did we not look at ourselves, but look away? This appeal has often fallen, and this should also call on us fellow citizens to look to it in the future whenever there are calls for help, if there are often only small signs, and not to think: I don't care, it's not my family, I'd rather look away. I think we should also take to heart the motto of the Council of Europe: We have to break the silence! Also with regard to violence in the family.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11586	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Heribert Donnerbauerzu word reported. You know the legal provisions. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11614	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Pilz has claimed that in this case, F. from Amstetten, the lawyer Dr. Autumn “was pushed up” and this would be the personal lawyer of the head of state of Lower Austria. I'm actually correcting: Neither was Mr. Dr. Fall the victims “expressed” – but it was an offer from the country of Lower Austria to support here – nor is Mr. Dr. Fall the personal lawyer of the Mr. Landeshuptmann of Lower Austria. Furthermore, according to best knowledge and conscience, with full competence and commitment, Dr. Fall will represent the victims in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11644	It was the usual mixture, as actual correction not fully correct. [[Abg. Steibl: The “common mixture ”? What's that supposed to mean?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The next speaker was Mrs Riener. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11682	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! For the time being, I can warmly welcome the students of the primary school Fehring from the district of Feldbach in Styria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For a week, Austria has been shocked by a single man. How can a person do this to others, to his own child? It exceeds the imagination of most of us. Yeah, we can't even imagine that, we don't bring that into our heads at all, what happened here. We want to protect ourselves from So much criminal energy. A understandable process, especially with those who were in close contact with the perpetrator and, it seems, have not noticed anything: the protection from the horror. There is also the feeling of taking part with the daughter who has been abused and deprived of freedom, with those children of the daughter who have never seen the daylight, the sky, the trees, a rainbow, with those who have felt this sickly violent power. Calming for us: They are all well cared for by professionals, and the other three children are probably protected there. Well, I'm careful, but I'm very concerned about the idea that these people had to suffer infinities that were deprived of freedom and are not now free. They are besieged by the media. Who's shooting the first photo? It is tried to catch a face, a shape, to present the latest news. Information is one thing, but victim protection must always be a priority. There are witness programs for victims, where their identity changes, their place of residence is kept secret. The public – that is, all of us – must take back in their greed for sensation. I would like to make an appeal here that a victim protection programme in Austria is not necessary in this form, that victims, in addition to all the suffering they have to deal with, remain unblemished by media and that personal freedom is placed above all matters. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Many violent influences via television and the Internet flow into us. Experts point out that many pictures in their messages are very, very subtle. You stump and protect yourself. This often means that right and wrong experience a flowing limit. Perception is not heightened, demand and questioning are not encouraged. At the same time, we must be aware that we cannot change every person with criminal energy, that not every act is avoidable. There will always be people who cannot distinguish good from evil and right from wrong. Such behaviour must result in very clear penalties with an increased and increased level of punishment. To sum up, I would like to stress in addition to violence prevention and also support in social work – it has already been mentioned – the agreement in the Council of Ministers: an extensive protection of victims, also in front of the media, the introduction of a criminal file for sexual and violent offenders against children. In the end, too, this has to be found in the youth welfare system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In such cruel acts, the criminal framework must be extended, and the perpetrators must feel the full hardness of the law. I thank our clubman Wolfgang Schüssel for his careful but also clear way of representation. Especially as a social worker, but also many others of us he will have spoken from the heart. For us in the ÖVP, it is important that we all become more sensitive in perception. Although not everything can be prevented, looking and questioning is not an interference in private matters, but is evidence of the necessary civil courage to protect our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11760	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11781	Madam President. Minister! High house! The incest ban is less a rule that forbids marriage to the mother, sister or daughter than rather a rule that forces to give the mother, sister or daughter to another, says anthropologist Lévi-Strauss. Do you mind? – It is not about the fathers, brothers or sons being married or given away, it is about holding the husband’s property claim to the mother, sister or daughter. And that is really what this case is all about. You may say now, yes, okay, the good Lévi strauss is no longer the latest, the text comes from the last century, is about 60 to 70 years old. What's the matter with us today? – But has the patriarchal family image really changed so fundamentally that it is not exactly the subject again that here – in the case of F. – a man claimed the absolute right to his children, to his daughter and – it would not surprise me – also to his wife? Is it not true that this lookout, which has been so often mentioned today, is actually a product of that it seems so normal when a man plays the Lord over the family and behaves decently outside and, as was always heard in the reactions, always greets him kindly? Does that say that someone greets his neighbors, anything about how he behaves toward people in his own family? – Obviously not. And the same attitude I also find in some of the reactions, with high probability made very unconscious, again. In this case, where even the house in the media is called a “horror house, ” there is the talk of the perpetrator’s “enhanced sexual power. ” Isn't there actually such a biterl with: great stallion, great guy, he's got something on it? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The men are excited. Very significant! It is said that he secretly cared for his “daughter and lover” or whatever the context was. “Beloved”? - What are we talking about?- Oh, my God! The crime of Mr. F. is not that he secretly held a loved one with a second family, the crime is that he raped his 11-year-old daughter for the first time and then routinely raped again and again that he has captured his daughter at the age of 18 or 19 and imprisoned and imprisoned her children for over 24 years. [[Abg. Grandruck: What kind of imagination do you have?]] – This is a fantasy, Mr. Grossruck? You call what I call crime a fantasy? [[Abg. Grandruck: But no!]] You should take that back! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: You don't understand the whole thing!]] The systematic rapes, the possession of the person daughter with her children by Mr F., this is a fantasy, says the human rights spokesman of the ÖVP. You have a real problem in your party when the human rights representative says. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: No, no! I didn't say that! You're fantasizing!]] Okay, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if I accuse the culprit F of systematically raped, systematically imprisoned and imprisoned his daughter for decades, and thus took possession of it, in all interpretation of the word. There's no imagination to play a role in this. What the uproar in this house, I believe, proves, is how delicate it is itself in this house to address the real social backgrounds, the family images that are at the centre of the house. The outrage, I see, was to be seen exclusively with the men of the ÖVP and FPÖ. The same underestimation, which can be read out against women and children, is in my view also the reason why the authority has been able to deal with such a rather sally. I do not blame any individual person in one of the authorities who have worked, but I ask myself the same question that many, many people in Austria are currently asking themselves: How can that be? Then a girl runs away from home, then disappears, and then the row after three babies is placed by this daughter with a companion letter in front of the threshold of the parent house from which the girl has run away. And no man asks anything, the authorities don't exchange between each other? Then head of state Pröll goes here, ordering a man – of course – as the lawyer of the victims. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In this matter, it is a sign of “special sensitivity ” to immediately conjure up a male lawyer from the hat for a sexual abuse victim. And the first thing this lawyer has to do is to publicly announce: The authorities are certainly not to blame! You know that, right away, right now, on the first day? – It seems strange to me. I believe that those politicians who so poorly equip the authorities in terms of resources, infrastructure and training of employees are indebted to any failure of government – if this is in place – to any fault. If everything remains the same as before, then nothing protects us from having another case of this kind happen today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11882	Mr Kurzmann came to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11903	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to reject the support of the previous speaker: We liberals have made no calls at all during your speech! We have not commented on your speech, Mrs Colleague! I don't know what you're going to accept, but the Freedom Party is thinking of its part in your statements. But we didn't call in. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if one has heard the speeches of the members of the government today, but also of many Members of this House in the past few hours, one could gain the impression that a criminal case has stirred up this republic and its leaders; that one suddenly realizes that the Austrian laws do not protect children and young people as comprehensively as they have always been; and that the legislator has not done everything in the past to ensure the protection of the weakest in this society – and that is now children and young people. The Minister of the Interior has rightly praised the Austrian police, although he – he certainly knows this – is one of the chief responsible for the dilution of the police equipment and the police officers can only perform their duties with the help of all the forces. The Minister for Justice is talking about increased victim protection and announces a second law on the protection of violence. And Mr. Klubobmann of ÖVP Dr. Schüssel said that there was something out of balance and that the criminal framework or the penalties imposed by the judges were no longer in line with what he felt was just. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is a late realization! In his time, Dr. Schüssel would certainly have had the power to ensure the adoption of the relevant laws as chancellors of this Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that violence towards children and young people has increased dramatically in recent years. I intended to have newspaper articles printed from the past. I quote: Because it's nervous: Father almost beat baby dead. - Quote. Or: Baby was severely abused. Four months old baby has tremor and brain bleeding. - Quote. Or: Father calmed baby with the fist: Skull break. - Quote. This continues; the number of examples could be increased almost at random. There is no doubt that a major reason for this is that too many are still looking away from children in the face of violence. This was the realization of a symposium that was held in Salzburg in 2003. The symposium title was: Violence against children and child abuse – what to do? At this symposium, a doctor called on her professional colleagues, the doctors, to assume responsibility, to be well-behearing and to reintroduce the obligation to report – which was abolished in 2001 in the Medical Law. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of § 54 para. We have discussed 5 medical law in this House more often. Last year, in the Committee on Petitions, I supported Mr Roman Ertl's citizens' initiative from Neuseiersberg. This citizens' initiative has set itself the goal of reintroducing the exclusive obligation of force majeure, as was the case before the November 1998. This initiative was launched by the Social Democrats, the ÖVP and the Greens, but also by the BZÖ. September 2007 in the Petitions Committee, after both the Federal Ministry of Justice and the Federal Ministry of Health, Youth and Family had given incredible opinions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dwarf.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I have read this opinion to you from a few weeks ago. You looked at it in the same way that you do today. I think you need action when a ministerial officer writes in your ministry: “From the point of view of the Federal Ministry of Justice, it remains to be noted that there is also a certain doubt in the youth welfare circles about the effectiveness of criminal measures to protect children.” Ladies and gentlemen, this is incredible! How else should you react? Should you leave the perpetrators free of punishment if justice has doubts about whether punishment can help?- Oh, my God! – I think there is a need for rethinking here. If you take the right steps, we will support you!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e11989	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Darmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e12012	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! I should like to make a few of the motions for resolutions tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which refer to the statements made by the BZÖ in the previous debate. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, following these motions for resolutions, I should like to make it clear to the Minister of Justice, since she is sitting here on the bench today, that our demand for a reduction in the criminality of young people has also been shown in Klagenfurt this week, which can happen if young people who are known for crimes are really committed, if the accusation is true, and nothing, absolutely nothing in the interest of the protection of the general public and in the interest of these young people themselves can be done. While there are various possibilities for authorities to take voluntary action in such cases, judicial action cannot be taken, this is only possible in the case of criminal proceedings from the age of 14. In this sense, it is necessary to take measures in such cases – in order to protect the general public as well as children or young people themselves – and, for example, to allow for a combination of pedagogical care and various non-profit activities to be achieved by reducing the mouth of punishment to under 14 years. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e12228	The nine motions for resolutions which have just been tabled by Mr Darmann are properly tabled and sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e12584	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Maier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e12605	Values Members of the Federal Government! Madam President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! When I put in a parliamentary question about violence in the family last year, a good friend said to me: Why are you doing this? With this request, you're not just going to make friends. . I have, of course, tabled this request, and for the first time we have received figures from the Minister of Justice on how the individual crime statistics have developed within the last five years. Even then, I realized that we should not keep silent about these crimes. We must not go into the agenda after this crime. I say it quite openly: It is difficult for a father of three children to find the right words, Because it's inconceivable to me what happened here. I shall try, as social democrats, to sum up a number of points from the discussion so far to see the situation. Violence and the exercise of power in the family must be demonstrated and fought by the state, the responsible authorities, but also by ourselves, i.e. by civil society. No one's allowed to look away. Violence against women and children is a reality in Austria. It is not only about physical, but, as has already been said, also about mental violence. We have the task of implementing such legislative measures, but also of ensuring adequate execution in the interests of the victims. Allow me to comment on this. In the last financial compensation, the countries have committed themselves to saving the Federal Government in their planning areas. There is now a danger that plans will be saved in the social field – that is, also in the field of youth welfare in the countries – even though this authority has a central role to play in combating violence against children. We Socialists assume that planning sites in this area are not reduced, but that additional planning sites are created in the field of youth welfare. We also assume that, in the field of youth welfare through the countries as a whole, appropriate equipment will be ensured, and I would ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, and you, Mr Federal Minister, to be introduced to the countries in order to ensure that these targets are met. Today's debate has already shown much, namely what has already happened in the fields of justice and home affairs. But it has also been shown that there are shortcomings that we, as parliamentarians, have to discuss at an extremely objective level. These are issues relating to the time-limits for eradication, the limitation periods, the question of justice and how independent justice deals with property offences and, on the other hand, with crimes against body and life. Thank you at Klubobmann Cushion of the ÖVP, which has made this very clear, and just point out that we are in the XXI. The legislative period, in which the Committee of Inquiry discussed precisely these issues. Unfortunately, there was no corresponding solution as a result. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! We support the package of measures to establish a sexual offender file, including the “2. ==References====External links== Just allow me a comment! An extension of the process follow-up is planned: Psychosocial and legal process support will be extended to civil proceedings. I have read the documents that it is planned that the victim's address should be made known to the court only if it is unreasonable to the victim. To this end, Mr Federal Minister: Here we need to change the registration law. Lawyers representing the perpetrators have access to the Central Reporting Register at any time as other agents under the Reporting Act – and that is a thousand in Austria. If we take this seriously, we need a novel to the registration law to ensure that the addresses of the victims are actually kept secret. In this sense, I hope that we can work together to decide on a package of measures to protect our children and protect families against domestic violence here in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e12662	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e12686	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to welcome students from the main school of Eggersdorf from my home region. If the young people now think where the Members are, I would like to say: They may be on the road with a school class in the house just as I used to – I hope anyway. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But now back to this serious issue. Children who have experienced violence need versatile support, but also violent parents need confrontation to face up to their responsibilities, and assistance to meet their parents ’ task again. Institutions such as children’s protection groups in hospitals – 38 in Austria – and child protection centres, as well as children’s and youth prosecutors – 55 in the number – provide very sensitive support and help to address difficult problems, provide assistance in crises and in the development of children. The social workers on the ground in the regions are also particularly important in this catch-up network. All of them are grateful for their work because they do more than their duty. They also know that they are responsible for what they do, but also for what they do not. And I think you have to thank them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say that the social workers, at least from my region, also reported to me what our Federal Minister of the Interior or our judicial spokespersons demand, that there should necessarily be an extension of the period of eradication and a exclusion from certain offences. I believe that appropriate measures need to be taken here too. I would also like to mention the child protection group at the Graz Kinderklinik. On average, there are 50 suspected cases of child abuse or abuse or neglect per year, and each fifth case is reported to the police's youth office. If Jacky Maier thinks there's no need to be saved here, then I'm totally with him, but I'd like to say: In Styria, the head of staff of the SPÖ State Council is located, and the social workers are also established there. I would like these places to be increased, but my knowledge always increases only the political offices. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I would like to sum up: We must not believe that laws may prevent the terrible conduct of individual people. We can only hope to have taken another step towards less violence against children, less violence in the family and less exploitation. And we can hope that there is more strength and love in living together in the families. That, I think, is a first step. And unfortunately we will still have to take many steps to eradicate all these atrocities.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e12744	The next speaker was Mrs Sburny. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e12765	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Many of the speakers have today found out at the speaker's desk that they can't imagine what happened. You, Minister Platter, have said that we cannot imagine that a family father commits such a crime. I'm wondering, Why can't you imagine that? – What I can imagine is that you don’t want to imagine that you don’t want to paint it. But that you can't imagine that when we know that there are thousands and thousands of abuse cases in Austria, that surprises me. It is also a little bit of this linguistic difficulty which my colleague Weinzinger has raised and which has so emboldened you. Because what does that mean... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – You don’t need to start screaming again. Listen to me, maybe. What does that mean? We can't imagine a family father commit such a crime? – From my point of view, this means in the background, even if this is not the intention of not trusting such a crime to family fathers. And that means it's a certain excuse for family fathers. This also refers to a very specific family image, even if it is not meant to be. I don't think it's anybody, I'm just saying – and that's what you never want to recognize – that language very much says something here too. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If someone is a so-called good family father or so appears... – Yes, that's psychology, but that's also sociology, because we're all characterized by this language. [[Call the ÖVP: What do you have for a family image?]] And when a person appears to be a good family father, he corresponds to a very typical family image and is usually not bothered any further – that is, much more than someone who does not appear as a good family father, which in the case can be a happiness for women and children, because then the matter will be followed rather. What I want to say, whatever we heard, is: It beats someone's wife and children. There were a number of cases now. The whole environment knows. And if it is true that the whole environment knows this and no one says anything, then it is not only or not primarily a problem of the neighbors, but it is an expression of a social attitude – and we all belong to it – that the authoritarian patterns to violence after us tolerate, is not explicit, but tolerates! To come back to another exhilaration: If an investigator of the police says that Mr. F. had an “enhanced potency,” that must sound like an excuse for some people, even if it is not meant to be. He's got an increased potency, so he keeps his daughter in the basement as a lover. That must sound like an excuse, but I say that is not the problem of this police investigator, but we have a social problem here, namely the problem that there is still a social and family view over a wide range of routes, implicitly accepting violence on women and children – not explicitly, but implicitly – and that there is still an image that children see as the possession of their parents and in some way gives parents a lot of room for what they do with their children. Of course, this is not an Austrian or a purely Austrian phenomenon, but a question, I think, must be asked. Why, for example, is... – In the same country as you amazingly. [[Call the ÖVP: Which country do you live in?]] It only shows that there are different views, and I can present them as well as you here at the speaker's desk. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is interesting to note that in Austria there are a third more deaths due to abuses than in Denmark or Finland, for example. You can ask yourself why this is so. That's going to be You probably are also interested. Why are there countries where there are more such cases and countries where there are less? At least I'm interested in it. I think you have to look at what's going on with the women's image, what this has to do with the relationship with children. Ex-Bundeskanzler Schüssel said today that women and children need to be strengthened in the families. I can agree with him 100 percent. Only: Its conclusion that women's homes and child protection centres have to be valued and expanded, so to speak, goes beyond the problem. We are already on the sidelines and not on prevention. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this sense, legal issues are important, prevention is important, but it is equally important to use our women's, family and society's image – and we should do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e12844	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kuntzl with 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e12866	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Even though I share the opinion of Mr Sburny that much remains in the perception of society regarding the image of women relating to the perception of violence in the family to women and children, I still think that today's debate, which has largely been very factual, has changed a lot in recent years. A few years ago, there was no broad agreement as a politician or politician when talking about violence in the family, when the problems were identified, when one said that violence against women and children took place to a large extent in the family. I think if the way is still far, we've made a good move. It has not been a long time since there was great excitement when it was discussed that rape in marriage is not a cavalier crime but should be punishable. There was great excitement, that was not consensual at Weitem. The right of directions, with which we have now established an exemplary system in Europe, was also very controversial. For a long time, the principle cited by Klubobmann Schüssel was as follows: What happens in my four walls doesn't matter to anyone. We now have a cross-party view that this is not true, that we should just look at the fact that the private rules must also be subject to certain rules and that violence in the family has nothing to do with it. The Minister for Justice, Mr Berger, has presented a package of violence, a new package of violence, not on the occasion of a crime that is very close to us all, but it has been prepared and discussed for a very long time and in detail. I would like to expressly say at this point, because there are other voices, to you, Mrs Federal Minister, that I very much appreciate your kind of political activity, the sensible activities, the serious, the material, the rational activities, and that I am also aware, Mrs Federal Minister, that you have worked out great trust in the Austrian population precisely with this material, sensible and prudent kind of action, because people already feel that an insurrection does not mean action without participation, but – on the contrary – that your kind of political activity leads to the fact that problems can really be addressed with the appropriate solutions. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and Greens]] Unfortunately, it is not all that we are discussing today to resolve with law, it is not all a question of justice or internal policy; it is a matter of much, much more. It has already been mentioned by other speakers that we have to shape the social climate accordingly. I would like to support all those who have said that youth welfare should be better equipped, better equipped and more financially equipped, and that we must do much more, especially in the field of prevention. I consider the approach to strengthen children to be extremely important for children, and even for young children. In Vienna, for example, we have already been running very decisive projects at the public schools in the first two years of primary school, which aim to strengthen the children, to show the children that they can defend themselves, that they can say no where violence begins, and to tell them who they are talking to, to whom they can turn. I think that this approach should also be further developed, because abuse is very common among infants. This means that such projects also belong to the kindergarten offered, expanded, the kindergartens supported by training, by external persons who can work with the children and strengthen the children in order to prevent as much as possible in advance.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e12923	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Chapel with 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e12944	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! This case F, of course, shows a whole new, a loathsome and so far unimaginable dimension of crime, but it also shows something else – and I would like to address Mrs. Sburny and Mrs. Col. Weinzinger briefly: Yes, it is true – and that is what I say from experience as a police officer – that family violence is male. Unfortunately! Unfortunately, God is male, but yet we cannot question the institution of family with father or the institution of father so roundly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] But also this case F. shows – and I am convinced of this – precisely the boundaries of police, administrative, but also judicial intervention in the family. It is very difficult – even since I can speak from practice – to look into the innermost of a family, to come in. If the police, the authority, and the youth welfare have such an idea or experience, this does not mean that this family can also be helped for a long time. The family closes. Of course, there is a monopoly of violence. Therefore, I believe it is necessary to talk about criminal police, administrative and judicial measures, which can also help, protect and combat in such a horrendous case. Here I am addressing measures that are always being rejected by you, by the Greens and left-wing politicians. A DNA database was rejected. A sexual offender file, online searches, the noise attack and many measures of intervention in the security police law that allow that, have been rejected. I would also like to take the case F. to prove: Here a chain of information has been torn down. By deleting a data set via Mr. F. due to a contemporary and false liberal criminal law policy, 15 years later, one knew nothing about this perverseness and this abnormality of F.. And that really bothers me. If one had had this record, I am convinced that the authorities would have had at least one indication that something could not be right here, and one could have prevented or shortened a martyrdom accordingly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, in future to have discussions on police and judicial work always with the case F in mind and in the heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e13002	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Also 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e13023	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, to my previous speaker. I think that has been said by some of our side, but also others today: Impeccable surveillance does not solve such problems. In parts, some improvements can contribute to this, but the causal problem is not solved, and patriarchal violence is not solved either by leakless monitoring. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My previous speaker from the Greens quoted Mr Platter as saying that it was not possible for family fathers to commit such crimes. I think we have to come to the conclusion: It is imaginable, and we know that family fathers commit such crimes – and many others too. And from this confession it is then possible to take further steps. It's imaginable, and we know it's happening. Seeing and recognizing this is necessary, even if it hurts. In her contribution, Mr Kuntzl said that a few decades ago it was not customary to recognise that violence, male violence, is taking place especially in families. It has been clear, at the latest since the new women's movement, since the feminist movement in the 1970s, that this happens that the private is also political. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klement: What about women's violence?]] For example, the Minister of Justice and I, together at the end of the seventies/beginning of the eighties in Innsbruck, cooperated in the construction of the women's house there and experienced the experience of what it means if this kind of patriarchal male violence is not observed, is not seen when it is looked away because it is something like a cavalier offence. That is, this recognition of patriarchal violence also in families is a very central aspect. I too agree with many of my green speakers that the package you are presenting, Mrs Minister, the sensitivity you are addressing, is very important and necessary. I was a week ago, when this case F. also became known in all international media, on my way to São Paulo to the World Congress of Greens, and I had to find that in all newspapers I read in all languages: The monster from Amstetten. Austria was also linked to this case on all international television channels and also to the Kampusch or Priklopil case. Many people also asked me: What's going on in this country? Especially after Waldheim and Haider; the sequence Waldheim, Haider – and now that? – Wait, that’s what I was addressed to! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Let me just describe this and perhaps make it clear that I personally am not restoring this relation. It should be noted that Austria has a problem with its presentation abroad. There are two very different pictures. Its own picture is such that we are a friendly country, touristically very open, we have Mozart balls, Lippizaners and the Habsburgs, it looks all beautiful with us, and contrary to that, the picture is that we are perceived as an ore-conservative, reactionary country in which such a thing is possible. I always say that there is a lot different in this country and that such cases happen elsewhere. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That Austria is so perceived abroad, I also see it as a problem. And I see that no government has so far managed to transport the image of a modern country, which we are finally in certain areas – especially since the accession of the EU in 1995 we have become more open and liberal. I thought of what Spanish Prime Minister Zabatero did before he was elected for the first time: He has announced that the first law he will make is one against male violence at home. He's got that too. It was not only the law he made, but also a broad campaign to propagate a modern women's image to do exactly what Petra Stuiber writes about today's “standard”, a campaign in which the image of men and men's violence is put in the foreground and said that it is not a cavalier crime if one beats the woman at home, that it is not a cavalier crime, that the wife, if one expects her to put the food on the table, is punished if she does not, or that the children are beaten. It would be time to carry out such an image campaign, which puts such modern sex images in the foreground, because the old role images are a cause for looking away and for such cases as we are discussing them here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e13084	The next speaker is Mrs Ablinger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e13105	Madam President. Dear Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We were all shaken by this crime. At the same time, however, we know that violence against women is the most common human rights abuse of our time. It is also the most brutal form and the most obvious form, an expression of male rule. We know that not all men are perpetrators and not all women are directly affected by violence, but the fact of mass violence against women affects all women and all men of this society, because it shows the degree of human dignity, and that is particularly important to me. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] It has often been rightly said today that gender relations are not private. And male violence – it is male violence, I know that from Upper Austria, I am chairman of the Violence Center; 97 The perpetrators are male in us, and this is true in all other places – men's violence to women is based on many things: on roles, such as women, or how a good mother must be, on public desecrations, for example, if women do not correspond to these role images, they are made ridiculous – as if they were deterrence, this woman is made so to speak, if she does not conform. Furthermore, male violence is also based on economic dependence, because independence is at all the basis for freeing oneself from a violent relationship, and on uneven rights and equal opportunities. Unequal distribution of power between men and women and this holding on to clichés of male strength and at the same time a tolerance of the general public that what happens between the four walls is just private, all that favours sexual and also all other forms of violence. One more thing: Violence against women has many faces: humiliated, humbled, beaten, threatened, threatened, abused, harassed, intimidated, tormented, ultimately murdered. You have to see that. The Minister is now presenting the second package for the protection of violence, which is intended to take account of this new situation. But something that we have even less discussed today – and this has been addressed by honourable Members Schüssel – is the question of culprit work. In Upper Austria, we have now several times the phenomenon, problem, the scandal that we already advise two different women, but the perpetrator is always the same. Now there are ten years in Upper Austria. And here we come to the essential point of culprit's work. Today, honourable Member Schüssel has spoken of this poster campaign “too much love”. - That's completely wrong. It's not about love! I think this campaign is also wrong. When discussing this under the aspect of “too much love, ” one does not come to the point of what it is all about. It's about violence, about master wills, about annihilation wills, that has nothing to do with love. [[Abg. Scheibner:..., you need to know the background!]] No, it has nothing to do with love! We can't call it that! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] It's about rulers' wills and violence, otherwise we won't come to the appropriate point. But the fact that we have to do something in the culprit's work is extremely important. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Let me conclude with a quote from the Council of Europe campaign against domestic violence: “It starts with screaming and must never end with silence.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e13160	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler with a second word. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e13181	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Today, at the beginning of the statements made by the Ministers of the Interior, a very dedicated statement has been made here, and to our surprise, I admit, that there would have been an agreement in the Council of Ministers on a number of points which we have long called for and which should finally come, we were positively surprised not only by the content but also by the commitment of the Minister of the Interior when he presented it. The commitment of the Minister of Justice has already made us a little more skeptical than she has read it down from the paper. But once again to the Minister of the Interior: The Minister of the Interior has told us with the breastplate that the Council of Ministers has decided on the following: Clearances will be excluded in the future, mandatory occupational bans will exist, and the criminal frameworks will be increased. - That's where we thought: Great, we have been demanding this for a long time – this government has learned to do so! This government is now bringing in a motion for a resolution by Mr Jarolim and Mr Donnerbauer, in which the whole thing looks different. Mr Innenminister, can you find yourself in this motion for a resolution? Let's take a look at this. That's what it says: The Federal Government is asked to take all the steps – and so on – and then it comes: “the period for the eradication of sexual offences can be extended by the judge.” – Not a must, but a can-determination regarding the extension of the time-limit. First level. Second level: “In the case of particularly dangerous sexual offenders, the period of eradication should be extended.” – That is only to be extended, so the eradication is not excluded. The deadline shall be extended. ‘In the case of serious sexual offences, the eradication should finally be completely excluded.’ That's not what you told us, Minister of the Interior! This is a compromise that we do not like at all, because we believe that all crimes relating to Section 10 of the Criminal Code, that is to say, all sexual offences, should be eliminated – without If and But, Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Mr. Minister, a game of thought. According to this regulation in the motion for a resolution, Mr Fritzl's crime would have been equally destroyed. In this case – you know what 1967 was – you know the extent of the penalty that he received, namely at the lower border; it did not fall into this serious crime group that you think, with death or serious consequences, no exclusion of the eradication, and it would have been just as bad as it was: Mr Fritzl would have been unchallenged after a short period of time. This paragraph, which you want to decide today with your motion for a resolution, is null and void, it does not help in such cases. He will only continue to help if we do not extend the time limits, just as the Minister of Justice would like to limit, but will completely eliminate the eradication of sexual offences, Mr Minister. And that's what we're asking you to do. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Second point: The ban on the profession, as the Minister has said, will suddenly be mandatory. - Where? . The motion for a resolution states that the professional ban should in principle be imposed by the judge. ‘In serious cases, a mandatory imposition of the ban on the profession shall be provided for without discretion for the judge.’ Minister of the Interior! Ms. Minister of Justice! Why Roll You're responsible again for a third party, that is to say, the judges? We don't need that! We need a law that states that in the case of sexual crimes, a professional ban is legally imposed that a sexual criminal should not work in any profession where he comes into contact with children. – Do not turn to the judges, act yourself! Develop a law that sets out a definitive ban on the profession, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Who is telling us that this teacher – now I come back to a current case – in Upper Austria, in Reichraming, is under any appropriate ban from a judge? There come again 17 opinions and 33 experts who then think that the teacher has actually improved, he has just downloaded some child pornography and has been condemned according to the criminal code, but let's teach him, no problem! - No, I don't. A legal ban on the profession would allow this teacher never to be in a class again and to teach children. And that is what we want, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Third point: The Minister of the Interior tells us that they have agreed on an increase in punishment. - Where? Read for yourself the motion for a resolution which, by the way, is pitiful; it is pathetic and does not say anything at all! It means: It is said to be “after completion of the evaluation” – it will now be evaluated, that lasts weeks, months, you don’t know; it’s evaluated, that’s the keyword – due to “the actual fines...” – when the evaluation is completed; read what it says – “to a discussion about the aggravation of the threat of punishment in the area of sexual criminal law”. In other words, we complete the evaluation once, and then we start to discuss. [[Abg. Oils: That's what it belongs to!]] Minister of the Interior! Ms. Minister of Justice! That's a blamable formulation. We don't need that. We need an immediate and rapid increase in the criminal framework, the minimum penalty and proper protection for our children, and not as swirling a request as it is on the table. That's why we reject him. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] It is really a scandal in view of the current cases that you trust in such a request at all. And if that is and should be what you decided in the Council of Ministers today, good night! Then we find ourselves where we found ourselves after the case of Luca, after the Innsbruck baby murder, after the Kampusch case, then we also find ourselves there after the case of Fritzl: beautiful sentences, soft, but no legal decisions! Nothing is done again! That's something we strongly reject. That is why we certainly do not agree with this motion for a resolution. Now again to the point, because there was artificial excitement, also in the SPÖ. The Minister of Justice has also said: For God’s sake, parents have already asked how this is with the mandatory investigations. Mr. Van der Bellen was horrified. Mr Van der Bellen! I've looked at this very carefully over lunchtime. What is already law in half Germany, by the way also in social democratic governments, cannot be bad with us. [[Call the Greens.]] – I have it here, I quote it to you. There's been one in Hesse since 1. January 2008, Hessian state government, the obligation of the prevention investigation for children. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Hesse is not social democratic!]] If the parents refuse this, the youth office will step... – I am already coming to the social democrats, don't worry. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Hesse is CDU!]] Couldn't Hessen, but I'm coming to Hamburg. Wait a little, I'll be right there. Hamburg – CDU: When parents refuse, the youth office enters the plan and controls what is going on. Or: Nordrhein-Westfalen already has a law in adoption – which will be adopted in the coming weeks – early detection investigations. All due to child abuse, because you know there have been serious cases there too. Children should be legally examined by the doctor by the age of six. This has been decided by the state government of North Rhine-Westphalia. Now I come to the Social Democrats: Hamburg. The SPD in Hamburg wants to send children regularly to the doctor. There's an expert... [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Hamburg is also CDU!]] – I said that the SPD in Hamburg wanted to send the children to mandatory medical examination. – Now you laugh with the ballpoint pen in your mouth, colleague Van der Bellen, because it is unpleasant for you and because you notice that this is actually everywhere normality. Because parents who are studying with their children in the course of the mother-child-pass examinations in the first years anyway every two months have no problem with this, Mr Van der Bellen! [[Abg. Oils: You have no idea!]] Therefore, there is no problem in investigating these children for violence against them and in ensuring a closer network of control here. That is why this criticism is also emptiness. [[Abg. Oils: So planless!]] And you will see, as in some federal states in Germany, this will prevail throughout Europe, because it is right. Last point: There is someone who now appears very often on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, that is Mr Eher. Dr. Reinhard Eher, he was now very often in the media, is the head of the central documentation and coordination office for sexual offenders in criminal execution. Mr. Eher, on behalf of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Justice, is now landing down and telling us that everything is not so bad, there is only a fall-back rate of 3, 4, up to 5 percent for sexual offenders. Although he cannot justify it, he says it is. – There are studies that say quite different, but Mr. Eher says that. [[Abg. Oillinger: The first part is not right! This is the untruth!]] I have an interview of the same gentleman. Found a year ago, in “kripo/online” – this is a magazine of the criminal police – “sexual perpetrators in soul X-rays”. Do you know what Mr. Eher said there? – He said – I quote –: “Twenty to twenty-five percent of sexual offenders are retreating.” The same man who now explains to us, there is almost no relapse, only 3, 4, 5 percent, has said a year ago, 20 to 25 percent. [[Abg. Oillingers: You can't read, read meaning! Functional illiteracy is that!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] There are heads of Austrian penitentiaries, for example of stone, who say every second we let go of earlier will come back. So 50 percent decline rate. And this at a time when this Minister of Justice is discharged from sexual offenders by means of a detention package! [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign]] This policy is wrong, we reject it. You should think about something better!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e13376	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues concerning the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Justice under Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, for half of the Members to be present, I expressly note it. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on tougher penalties for the protection of minors. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Jarolim, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Donnerbauer, ladies and gentlemen, on measures to prevent violence and to protect children. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of it to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority, the request is accepted. (E 71.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the long-term extension of the protection of minors. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues on the Central Register for Sexual Victims. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues on professional ban on sexual criminals. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues on education of consciousness and responsibility for the unmistakable. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues on criminal penalties for sexual offenders and child abusers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This, in turn, is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues on regular examinations of children. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of it to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues on advocacy in the event of violence against children. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues on limitation periods for crimes against children and adolescents. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues on exclusion from sexual crimes. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues on the search for missing persons. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of it to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[14:23:17]] 2. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (522, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which a federal law on the attainment of the degree qualification for studies at educational universities (HStudBerG) is passed and the higher education law 2005 and the private school law amended (533 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e13615	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak was Mr Ddr. Deweiser with 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e13644	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Agenda item 2 has to do with the previous in that it is a law that is intended to promote the professionalisation of pedagogical professions – something that certainly also benefits the children, if teachers or kindergartens or youth caregivers receive higher-quality offers and other offers in their training. Hartmut von Hentig has summarized this task in a very short sentence: “Strengthen people who clarify things.” I think that much better can't be formulated what "school" is meant to mean. With the Higher Education Law we continue a relatively long tradition in Austria. With the so-called Fischer Act 1945 – then State Secretary at the Ministry of Education – one has introduced in Austria for the first time the opportunity to study even without Matura. This was then forgotten for a time; there were only a few who used this possibility. Then this professional maturity examination has been reactivated, extended by a degree examination, and today it is about allowing access to the educational universities even without matura, in order to become a teacher or teacher through a study at the educational university. In this context, I should also like to point out that you, Mrs Federal Minister, have recently made proposals concerning access to the study of the teacher's profession, because we should look more closely at this and see something like a reception procedure, that I very much welcome it. I believe that we should do this in the sense of the quality of the schools and also in the interest of the students themselves and implement it in connection with the reform of the educational universities. In the Committee, Mr Graf has made a new move to take greater account of the Master's examination of access. We have not yet decided, but all have meant that this would be a good idea, that we should examine, and that has led to the following amendment, which I am submitting here: [[Quoted print version removed]] I've got to read this out. That's what the Rules of Procedure prescribe. This is about the fact that if someone has a master's exam or a qualification test, he is recognized as one of the five tests required for his subject and thus brings an easier access to his studies; the study itself is still to be completed. We are also taking a step in the context of what is now being prepared in the European and national qualifications framework: we are trying to ensure that the various qualifications and examinations and the like are recognised and that we do not have to re-make everything. There is no doubt that the reform continues. An important point that falls within the competence of Federal Minister Hahn is the Bologna-compliant reorganisation of teaching studies at universities. The The second is to integrate kindergartens and kindergartens into the educational universities and eventually bring together teachers' training at the educational universities and those at the universities. With today's law, we are taking a right and important step in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e13729	The amendment which has just been tabled is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e13810	The next speaker was Mr Neugebauer, who spoke for 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e13831	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to welcome you all very warmly, especially the 7. Class of the Privatgymnasium Delivery, also on behalf of my colleague Barbara Riener, from the beautiful country of Salzburg! We have devoted ourselves to a subject which, as my previous speaker has already said, has a five-party agreement both in the proposal and in the amendment. It is a law that allows people without maturity to apply for a degree, a Bachelor's degree, at the educational universities. Among other things, we have ventilated the question of why it is necessary to implement this into a law of our own and not into the Study Law for University Institutions. – The terminology and complete rework have prevented us from doing so, and we have ended up with a law of our own, which is now exclusively entitled to study at the Educational School. Higher education. I think that examination requirements and examination methods are essentially in line with the previous provisions regulated by the School Organisation Act. A second point that seems to me to be important: that, in the negotiations and discussions between the Republic of Austria, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Holy See, it is also agreed to apply the School Treaty to the educational colleges which replace the educational academies, so that the Republic will also grant the necessary subsidies in terms of the allocation of sites, but also support for training in continuing and continuing education. The third point is that my colleague, Mr Niederweiser, has already mentioned this; Mr. Dr. Graf has focused this on the Committee; by the way, also from the assessment of the Vorarlberg Council of State Schools – that we recognise the completion of a Master's degree examination for the degree qualification, because Master's examinations and equal qualifications require a very high level of educational commitment and are quite useful for the work as a teacher or as a teacher and thus also in the reverse effect constitute recognition for the value of the professional work. I believe that this is an important aspect and thank you for the fact that this amendment has also resulted in unanimity. Mr DDr. In my opinion, the President-in-Office of the Council has rightly said that we are able to create a connex between today's item 1 and this item on education. I think that if we want to live up to the federal constitution which gives education the task of forming and educating according to social, religious and moral values, it is also important, in view of these incidents, to give particular importance to ethical values and ethics in the field of education. Perhaps this can also be an important contribution in the training of young people, in the discussion of the growing people with the culture surrounding them, to a more understanding and ethical, all social groups respecting one another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e13879	The next item is the speech by Mr Brosz. 5 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e13901	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Niederweiser, I believe that this draft law has been a courageous or a major step. - That's a risky formulation. If you clearly grasp something that is initially regulated in another law and make it your own law, then that may be right, but a courageous, far-reaching step, I think, is something else. Above all, when discussing teacher training, you should ask the question: How should the teacher training in Austria be designed at all? There we have deficits that are obvious, for a number of reasons. One point is that the separate teacher training that we still have – the old debate: the same school types, the same school levels, teachers who are at two different universities, one can now say, be trained – simply not fit together, for several reasons. Firstly, because there is no way to change. This is a major problem for those concerned, and I believe that, in view of what you, Mrs Federal Minister, have rightly formulated: that we will have a major change in staff in the next few years, will lead to significant difficulties, namely, when the number of students in compulsory schooling goes down. What then do you do with the compulsory school teachers, who can no longer teach anymore, because too few students are there but are not allowed to teach because they do not have the qualifications to switch schools? At least then, at last, the point would be to ensure that a common solution is reached as quickly as possible. The second point is that it is also about the quality of training. Today, in the TOP 1 debate, we have discussed to a certain extent whether there are the necessary conditions in schools to deal with social conflicts at all. This is not just a matter of recognizing violence in the family – I think it would be an important point in the training of teachers. It is also not a question of their being able to diagnose alone and then take action, but if at least the recognition is there and the relevant professionals can be addressed, this will continue to help. You will know just as well as I do how many cases are known that parents say after years: My God, now I came up with it, so my child had such difficulties in school because it had Legathenia!, and for years no one came up with it that this child had Legathenia. [[Abg. Elmar Mayer: There is no such thing at all!]] There's no such thing as that? As a statement from the SPÖs, I think this is incredible! I can quote many examples to you. Excuse me, but where do you live? There are children in our school, and it is completely irrelevant that the Legathenia have – they are judged as everyone else; this goes up to the question of whether they have the right to go to a higher school, or not. If you say there's no such thing, I think: What are we still discussing here? [[Abg. Elmar Mayer: No, this is already a problem, but...!]] Probably done because recognized, but pretending that this is no longer a problem in schools, I think that's incredible. Please read the reports on these areas carefully! Unbelievable! Apparently everything fits wonderfully anyway, we don't need to improve anything at all. Everyone knows how Legasthenia is recognized, so everything works great. – That’s why there are parents who make it their life’s content to work with their children so that they can even finish schooling!Unknown term type: "%s".? A wonderful insight! Wurst, we still believe that a lot should happen here, because teachers can only recognize it to a certain extent if they are not prepared for it. It's not that easy. It is not just about twisting letters and so on, but Legathenia has completely different backgrounds, completely different forms of conspicuousness. I can only tell you, honourable Member, if you do not know what I am talking about, you are going to Lower Austria – perhaps this is different with you in Vorarlberg – and look at the schools to see if you are prepared for it. I know a few cases from my personal environment – which I can immediately show you – where this has led to massive problems. So it's about improving teacher training in quality, increasing it, leaving it that it's only about vocational training – a very important point – but actually about the art of teaching. We have noted with interest that you, Mrs. Minister, and Minister Hahn, are supposed to go towards joint teacher training. We also took note with interest of the request of the “delegating speaker” of the ÖVP in the teaching committee, Mr Neugebauer, that the request for a joint teacher training should, of course, be postponed. At the time, I have already announced that we will make a word-identical request here, because it fits in with it, and thus bring it in: [[Quoted print version removed]] Moreover, based on a recommendation from the EU Commission, where these measures are clearly required. So it is not only that the Greens and – when they were not yet in the government – also demanded the SPÖ in Austria, but also that there is clear knowledge from the EU Commission about a common teacher training. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: It's not that clear!]] You can read the document. I can quote it to you: 392 SEK, that's going to be You probably also find it there literally. No one in the Commission understands that teachers are being taken professional opportunities because they are in a rail and they never come out again, and if they can't continue to teach, they just had bad luck. Perhaps you will read the EU documents, and we will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e13987	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore also part of the debate. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14048	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Dr. Graf. 7 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14070	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Much has already been said about this matter of law. It will also be decided unanimously today. Two points on the comments made by my previous speakers: I would just like to clarify the joint training of teachers at a university type, because we already have confusion in terms. Under university, of course, university education and the tertiary sector is meant, because the educational academies are now also universities. Otherwise, what Mr Brosz has read as an application might be misunderstood. Universitary education, yes. This is perhaps also one of the criticisms of this law, which we have to decide today, because it is an intermediate step that has become necessary and it is not It was packable in other provisions. I'm glad that the Master's exam is now included. To the Legasthenia. – That’s about a topic like: Of course, there are the maximum number of students 25 in first classes in Austria. This is also borne in this way, I also read in the interview of the Federal Minister Gehrer with the critical “Presse”, which also says that this is implemented. This is therefore part of the current account of the Federal Minister. The press is no longer critical, because if a government or a majority in this House decides something, it is clearly considered by the “press” already implemented. We know from many responses from your home that this is not the case with Weitem. To the bill itself: Mr Neugebauer has indeed strangled this with the agreement, which in itself is a little system-wide, on the educational universities of the Confession. I have already said this in the Committee that there is only negotiations with the Holy See. I know Austria is a predominantly Catholic country and there is a concordat, but there is something like equal treatment and the like. I do not really like the fact that this law now also includes a privilege for religious schools or universities. Much better would be a joint education at the university and then transfer it to private universities. So it will probably be the only way to go then, that is sure to lead in the way, is also announced, and I hope that it will come sometime. Our topic here is not to introduce a certain secularization in the private school sector just as it is in the field of educational universities, to shorten the churches and religious societies, but to me it is really about making other private individuals equal in this field. That's what we're doing. Mrs. Federal Minister, I am now addressing the subject of your interview in the press, and I must say that I am disappointed myself. Unfortunately, we have a lonely struggle here in the House with regard to access rights to training or educational places at Austria's universities and universities, because all the other groups with quotas have already found themselves. You are now prophesying that there should also be admission procedures for educational colleges, and to the concrete question in the “Press” you are answering in a different way. The question “So there are only so many places to study ” is described here as“ as there are free posts in the medium term. ” There are plenty of jobs in the future because many ten thousand teachers would retire. This has not been the question, but it is the evasion. And then you say to the question: “Uni-restrictions would therefore also have to apply to other studies?” – you will come to see: “We already have some of this in other fields of study now.” This means that the principle of access restrictions is accepted. “I believe” – say It then continues, “that it is especially necessary where social responsibility is also required to a high degree. Say: In pedagogical professions.” That means you want access restrictions. I would like to have a statement on this. At least I read it that way. Then it becomes a system. I don't care what someone is studying, everyone should choose it. If anyone wants to study law, it should not be denied. The issue is whether someone then brings the conditions for professional training. And this is, of course, the system that we have here today, that you say, that must be prevented from happening from the beginning. So if someone is admitted to an apprenticeship course and then pursues this profession, then he is pragmatic and goes with the profession in retirement – about. That's the wrong way! It may also be that you later lose the suitability, for whatever reason – burnout or because you are different in orientation or whatever. That can happen. Or it may also be that one was lucky and such an examination existed or was taken in spite of access restrictions or that an assessment center has achieved positive, no matter how much one wants to call it. I warn against that anyway, because then only the family members will be taken in. When you get through, you've done everything more or less. So we continue with the SPÖ, access restrictions wherever there is a loophole and whatever the reasons. One says that we have to ensure that Austrian doctors are provided and that is why we take as few as possible; the other say there is a social responsibility, and that is why we will choose in the future, and more so. I would like to place this again: In order to study, everyone who wants it himself and meets the requirements that the law or we prescribe. And that can only be the matura that you can really improve. In any case, we are going in the direction of Central Matura and the like, what I welcome, and upper-level reform, which I also welcome. But whether someone is studying history or not, or whether he is teaching or not, that is everyone's own decision, which one should not discuss away through access conditions. Although I do not consider study contributions to be an access requirement, the SPÖ and the Greens have always said so. That is why this is also appropriate here, because there are also study contributions at educational universities and because there has been a great initiative by Mr Broukal with many friends from SPÖ and I also believe that there is a majority in this House for the abolition of study contributions. Then you should do it, please, too. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The last request that we have put forward in this direction has been rejected by Mr Broukal because he has said that he cannot agree with the explanatory statement we have put forward. That's why he couldn't carry it. Just briefly: Our reason, because we are not a fundamental opponent of study contributions, was that the objective and purpose of the introduction of the study contributions, In fact, these funds have not been fulfilled for infrastructure improvements at universities, for students and for teaching, even in the last two years the few possibilities of co-determination have also been abolished by students. And that's why we're saying we don't want to give up on the central budget of a university. That was not the purpose of the provision at that time. In principle, we are already – and this is why I am now orally – thinking about study contributions, but within the framework of autonomy in a legal range, which is from zero to a thousand, as it is our proposal – one can talk about where the level is to be used – is quite contentious. If the purpose is not even respected after well over five years, but one continues to operate contrary to the purpose, then it is preferable for us to abolish it once so that the pressure for further discussion in this matter is also brought about. That's our reason. But in the reasoning we have now put forward, we have now incorporated the SPÖ grounds and the reasons of the Greens and have explained the views in the explanatory statement and have neglected – I say – our views so that there can no longer be any more excuses regarding the design of the request itself. I assume that there can no longer be any contradiction here if one tries to explain relatively objectively the various reasons for this. Finally, we will decide on the request and not on the grounds. The The door has been opened by our colleague Broukal medial, we are now opening it here in the House. You are invited to document your commitment to abolish the study contributions also across the world. That is why we called for a vote to be taken. Have the courage to take the courage to help the majority in this House break through! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14194	The request which has just been submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14255	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner, who will be speaking for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14277	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear students at the gallery! High house! This government template provides the basis for access to the degree examination, especially the requirement for admission to the educational university. This is good and right if new and easier access is created here. We will also give our consent on the part of the BZÖ. I only have three comments to make. The first comment has tried to clarify Mr Neugebauer. I have already asked the Committee why this scheme does not involve in the existing law on study qualifications, especially because it is planned to innovation in May 2008. They have justified this with a disability of terminology. I am aware of this, but I do not understand it, especially because the Federal Minister spoke differently about it in February. The second point I would like to point out is that in general part of the explanations state that this is a measure to raise the academic share. In principle, there is nothing to object to, but I believe that it is also a question of not only giving or giving additional academic status to people, but also of providing access to a group as large as possible, which wants to do the teaching and which is suitable for it. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, are also involved in your various suggestions, including the quality training of teachers, where you also believe that you can define different selection criteria, where you also want to professionalize the reception regulations. In principle, it is against I am firmly convinced that the profession of a teacher, the profession of a teacher, is not any job with which you can earn money or earn money, but that it is also a very responsible task and challenge and that really only the best teachers should become, because only then can they make our children fit for the future. If there is an increased rethinking here, I believe that the teaching profession as a whole will again be given a more attractive status in society. Of course, the framework conditions are also important so that teachers can work well. I have read that today the Council of Ministers decided to reduce the maximum number of students to 25 children per class. A wormhead drop: It is only a target value that can be exceeded by 20 percent. Another drop in advertising is that the higher and middle schools are missing. But I think it is a first and important step to be able to make the next improvements in school infrastructure. I would like to address a third point, which is the amendment tabled today. It is gratifying that, as was suggested by my side in the committee, the Master's examination is not only considered to be a requirement of suitability, but is also recognised as part of the qualification examination. I think it is a very strong and important signal that future teachers have to bring their experience from the professional life, from which previous economic life can bring into future qualification, and that this link between business and teachers must be a real living one and thus also the best ones can work. Overall, as has been said, a government template that is positive, which we agree with, but a next step must certainly be the integration of the joint teacher and teacher training, especially with the training of kindergarten teachers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14325	Mrs. Dr. Schmied, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, is next reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14346	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to take a short look. This bill is a formal necessity. He creates the legal basis for those people who would like to study at the educational universities but do not have the mature exam. I am extremely pleased about the five-party agreement and I also find it very justified that, as we have already discussed in the Committee, at the initiative of honourable Member Dr. Graf Meisterprüfung and Qualificationsprüfung are now recognised as an elective subject in the study examination. This is a very positive development, and I thank you very much for the benevolent adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14371	The next speaker is Mr Broukal. I just need to draw your attention to the need to interrupt you at 3 p.m. to call for the short debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14394	Madam President. They say this so sad that I tend to believe it. Thank you, sir. I'll do it. On 23 March, Mr. Graf, spokesperson, on behalf of the Socialist Group, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European It may be that he had hopes regarding the use of these funds, that he believed what Finance Minister Grasser had put into the room at the time, namely that the additional money would be for the universities that would have been used to improve the already not very good study conditions in about a third of the fields of study. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's it!]] Yes, Mr Graf, you and all of Austria have been deeply disappointed by this non-compliance with this promise by Mr Grasser and Mrs Gehrer. Today, seven years and 166 days later, Mr Graf, make the request to abolish the tuition fees. I thank you, and I pay tribute to that. You're right. As the SPÖ and the Greens have been calling for the abolition of study fees for years and now the 21 representatives of the FPÖ will also be added, there is indeed a broad absolute majority in this House for the abolition. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: But!]] Mr Graf, I am not going to be very much and we will all vote against the coalition partners just as you did in the time of the FPÖ government. The last FPÖ delegates then relinquished their membership in 2005. Until then, the FPÖ was part of a government coalition. And what didn't happen, and you agreed! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We were a weak coalition partner! You're a stronger one!]] So don't ask us any more than you, of course, have taken advantage of freedom of movement in a coalition. We will not agree to this request, which we support more than today, from coalition grounds, but the final meeting of this legislative period will come, in which there will no longer be any coalition concerns – and if you remember your promise today, we know that the tuition fees will be abolished by June 2010 at the latest. Until then, I wish you the firmness to stay with what you announce today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14464	I am now interrupting the negotiations on this item on the agenda. [[14:59:42]] Short debate on the reply to the question 3585/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14485	We arrive at the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Finance with the order number 3585/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are therefore going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Opinion of members of the European Parliament and of the Council on the proposal from the Commission to the Council the government or the State secretaries reported in word should not last more than 10 minutes. I should now like to ask Mr Graf as an applicant for the request to open the debate. His speaking time is 10 minutes. . I hereby give the floor to you, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14525	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I have suspected that not Mr Vice-Chancellor, but Mr Matznetter, will come to the AB meeting. But it is probably – and I am now dispensing berry advances – even better on this issue because you, Mr State Secretary, have been included in this matter. In reply to this question by Mr Molterer, which we are debating here today, we will make a request not to take note of it. This is already the sharpest instrument that we can use in case of a request answer. We do so because we believe that this response is not only in line with the facts, but also in a very political way. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] We have had a committee of inquiry, where we have been dealing for several days with the so far largest investor fraud in the Second Republic, and it has admittedly a large number of Members who had less information about it, there are some questions there: Failure of financial market supervision – yes or no? – has been learned and has been additionally sensitised in relation to the weaknesses of the control instruments. I just remember that the investor compensation company is de facto pleaded. My colleague has not tirelessly stressed that he has always said that this is just the implementation of an EU directive and will not keep what it promises. The fact that such a law was made in the 1990s is a matter of course. But then the case occurred, and the investor compensation company was pleaded at the first investment fraud. Of course, in such a case, there are many affected people who, like a deposit guarantee, have or are insecured about their invested or invested capital. Especially Austria as a historically grown bank place with strong banking secrecy regulations, investor protection regulations and similar more must be very careful that it does not lose this place that we have fought in the world in recent years. This can happen if we do not have sufficient investor protection rules and if the supervision of securities, the supervision of investments in financial market supervision does not really work. In my opinion, if the Deputy Chancellor of the Republic answers in his capacity as Minister of Finance in his reply to his question a little instructive by stating that the “AMIS Group” has obviously committed errors, and the question of how one intends to proceed now – because investors have not yet received compensation to this day, of course, one wants to ask – writes: It was not the “AMIS Group”, as always stated in the request, but only a certain AMIS company, lastly the AMIS Financial Consulting AG, under the supervision of the FMA. – I hope he doesn’t think that the other AMIS subsidiaries or the other AMIS companies were well-functioning companies. This was already a very large piggy in the form of an investor fraud, and it should be left as it was. The Minister of Finance and Vice-Chancellor does not need to be relativized. But if Mr. Vice-Chancellor says that the Examining Committee did not deliver any results, I have to say: It has probably been one of the co-operators who provided the reason why there has not been a joint final report. But there have been enough individual reports, and the majority in this House have found that the financial market supervision is wrong. This has ultimately led to the reform of the Financial Market Supervision Act. In our opinion, however, it has been largely reformed, because it is limited to exchanging people. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true!]] Everything that's not declared black and not as red had to be gone. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true at all!]] The Board of Directors responsible for AMIS matters is still there; you have to know that too. One has exchanged the other board, mainly for the operation of the SPÖ. But I don't want to deal with it so much. Furthermore, the Federal Minister writes: ‘In many cases, the draft report from my group notes that supervisory errors have not been detected’, I must say: Your report does not hold anything about the AMIS story at all – I have it here, it is very thin – except a list of errors, where there is a rise, rhyme on the side, which has all gone badly. In addition, don't notice anything. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: A suspicion could not be hardened!]] But that a Federal Minister, as it were, in the parliamentary jargon speaks of ‘my group’ and that a Federal Minister of this Republic, who obviously already belongs to the ÖVP,... [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Are we nobody?]] No, that's not it! But the fact that a minister is speaking on behalf of his group as the top organ – and there are thousands of questions being asked and answered – is rather strange. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: He does not say “on behalf of my group”!]] Although he does not say, “on behalf of his group”, he already represents it. The Minister of Finance points to our question after the letter of the Federal Chancellor that he does not know, that it has not been agreed with him, and that is why one should contact the Chancellor if one wants something. It's about his answer. The Minister then writes literally: “To the correspondence of the Federal Chancellor’s office with the injured, it should be noted that it was carried out without prior consultation of the Federal Ministry of Finance and therefore not known on the basis of which documents there have been accepted a defective supervisory activity.” If the Chancellor of the Federal Republic writes to me that he admits – I mean now: sensiblely – that there have been errors in the supervision, and if then the Vice-Chancellor writes in a question, he does not know this letter from the Chancellor, nor does he care about it and therefore he cannot comment on it, then I wonder: What's going on, please, the already damaged citizen's thinking? One more thing is said to the victim, as one says in good Viennese, “there is given a wax to the dirt. ” That's about how I read this. It's awful for me! Moreover, I have always believed that there is only one federal government represented by a Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: And the Minister of Finance! He's in charge!]] It is already clear that the Minister of Finance is responsible. But if he says it's not chordd, then it throws a significant light on this federal government. Then I can only guess that this will be better dealt with in the future, because the Federal Chancellor already has a coordination competence in this Federal Government, and if he says something, then the weight must be. [[Abg. Dr. stupidly shakes the head.]] Mr. Col. stupidly shakes his head. It does not therefore have any weight on the word of the Federal Chancellor; I take note of that. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I didn't say that!]] On our finding that the legal path, represented by the financial procuratorship, which has long been privatized, or which is not necessary at all, is excessive, namely having the Republic of Austria in its back and therefore starting from having unlimited funds at their disposal, and coming to the devil, the Minister of Finance writes back that one must say something based on a legal title, based on a judgment, because only then there is legal certainty. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Sure!]] Mr President, you are also a representative or a follower of the opinion that there should also be a private contract autonomy. I have always believed that a legal title or a legal basis is also a contract, an agreement, a comparison. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: But this is about being held in office!]] It is not imperative that you process everything up and down to the Supreme Court, so to speak, to come out devils. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Rule of law!]] I already admit that there is a need to ensure that the rule of law is done here. But in my opinion, the rule of law remains in its fundamental foundations even if not every dispute is brought to the Supreme Court on behalf of the Republic, but also a comparison is made in order to achieve results faster. As a Federal Government you can also form a legal opinion. In any case, the deposit guarantee will be beating, and in reality it only raises the question of the pot from which the money comes and who is where and how obliged. In the future, the dispute of competence – and it is premeditated – will be which authority is responsible for whether it is the investor compensation or another, essentially disputed. That's the issue of being held in office! And this is to the detriment of the citizens. It will still be – and I say that to those concerned – because long-term negotiations with Luxembourg will have to be conducted in a bankruptcy procedure. But in the case of internal Austrian affairs, but also those within the European Union, which you so praise and appreciate, one can work as an Austrian Federal Government to ensure that the business is handled more quickly in the interests of investors. Only when this works properly and quickly is actually the bank place and the investor place Austria still well removed, because that speaks internationally – and not if one takes procedures to the length. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14701	Mr Matznetter has now spoken. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14722	Madam President. High house! We don't deal with the Causa AMIS for the first time here. I say: We are not right to deal with it for the first time! Number one: We have the following situation: A total of 16 000 victims, including more than 10,000 in Austria, have lost their total savings for the first time because they have been lured to invest their capital in machinations, where a number of things have not been observed afterwards, which would have been observed in accordance with the provisions of the laws. Number two: We have everything to do to help where we can, and, as far as it is possible, to meet the legitimate concerns of the injured, to help them enforce their interests, but we also have to look at the fact that not a substantial part of the welcome is that taxpayers' money, which had nothing to do with it, is used as a cover for others' machinations. Therefore, two principles must be respected. Principle number one: Help as far as it goes. Principle number two: Protection of the budget and ultimately the money of taxpayers. On the correspondence of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr Graf, I would like to point out: In his letter, the Federal Chancellor pointed out that the injured persons had to present the illegal organ behaviour for the damage and claimed damage to be specific. They must then report this to the Financial Procuratorship. So far, so right. In an e-mail, using the provisions of the July resolution, the Federal Chancellor pointed out that the Audit Committee on Financial Market Supervision has revealed a number of shortcomings and weaknesses, which is why a corresponding rapid reform has also been launched. In addition, Mr Bundeskanzler has literally quoted the following from the Court of Auditors' report, which, I believe, is also on the agenda today: ‘The objective of optimising organisational processes as a result of the establishment of the Financial Market Supervisory Authority in the sense of integrated supervision across the financial market cannot yet be considered to be fulfilled. Systemic weaknesses and, in part, lack of efficiency of supervisory instruments limited the impact of the integrated supervisory authority.” – The Federal Chancellor rightly quoted this. What was to be done? . Mr Graf, we have not only made a major contribution to the change of posts, but we have also decided on a comprehensive reform of financial market supervision in this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] I think we have agreed to a proper reform. Then: We have fixed the weaknesses identified in the Committee, which have been identified by the Court of Auditors and which have become known in this procedure. What were the weaknesses? - The one hand didn't know what the other one was doing. There were double-tracks. Now there is a clear regulation: Exam – Austrian National Bank; Analysis – Austrian National Bank; Supervision as Authority, Disclosure Exhibition and Capital Market Supervision and Insurance Supervision – FMA. We have the difficulty that one hand does not know what the other one is doing, or at least has said: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There's still that!]] We have already sent this! and the others have done nothing to eliminate it with a clearly regulated procedure, who is responsible for who can become an initiative, who can call on the others, and we have ensured that this will be documented in the future. The Austrian National Council acted quickly as a legislator. That was reasonable, too. First point: We strive to do everything we can to ensure that the procedures for the large number of victims go as quickly as possible without further risk of costs. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's an AB meeting!]] Therefore, in all the cases notified, the financial attorney, Mr Graf, has immediately declared the willingness to waive a so-called limitation of speech, i.e. not to put these thousands of injured persons in the situation of opening a complaint proceedings against payment of the fees and the risk of complaint, and has provided them with the prospect that, after clarification of the overall procedure, their claims will then be settled. They have done exactly what they actually wanted, namely to facilitate it for citizens. Second point: On behalf of the Republic, the Financial Procuratorship has done much more than it has to make as a state attorney to protect the interests of the budget. It has been actively involved in ensuring that all possible coverage funds available are used in the course of the bankruptcy procedure AMIS. The Financial Procuratorship has actively endeavoured to do something that we do not have in the legal order, namely a collective action, with a procedure involving the mass administrators here, the mass administrator in Luxembourg, the defendants who have already filed complaints, the creditor protection associations – all of them at a table – to try to secure the claims in parallel with the bankruptcy procedure. Who can do that to anyone? – Deposit banks, which still account for €60 to 70 million today; Economie auditors who were active and have issued confirmations here, although in fact it was not ensured that customer funds would not be available in good time. The aim of this measure is that, before a large amount of money is used up by administrative and complaint costs, the existing liquid assets plus the rights claims to third parties will come into a pot and the injured will get their money unbureaucratic and quickly. If something remains open and if legal in the model proceedings pending, there is indeed a claim for official liability, then not only the applicants, the few who are now filed – the number is in the answer to the question – will get their money, but of course also all those who do not now risk the limitation with renunciation will be able to register and say: I want the difference! But only when it is legally decided. That's how we do two things. First: We take care of the injured by an active action of the prosecution, by helping to bring in assets that are hardly transferable to a small victim against a system over two countries with x lawyers. Secondly, however, we reduce the risk that taxpayers will have to face up to machinations, and I consider this to be a reasonable process. Mr Graf, if I may remind you of something that – and now I am replying to it for my group – we have already called for the opposition to happen at last: The acquisition of the wealth there is that one accepts the matter together, bundles the interests and sees that the money is provided as quickly as possible to cover the satisfaction of the claims, rather than in mass administrations. In this sense, I believe that we are on a better path. My promise is, and I have been committed to it, and I know that Mr Vice-Chancellor is also trying to do this: We will do everything we can to bring it to an end as quickly as possible, while respecting the tax interests of investors, but also respecting the legitimate interests of investors. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14785	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes each. The first is Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14809	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, on the results of the Committee of Inquiry on Financial Market Supervision. I have also found this a bit strange that the Minister of Finance is only replicating a report or a draft report, namely that of his own group. It is rather unusual to do so in reply to a parliamentary question. If you look at the contributions, in whatever form they were introduced, at the individual political groups, you can already see a clear picture: The fact that within the Committee of Inquiry, a very broad majority has already clearly stated that there have been massive weaknesses within the framework of the FMA, especially, but not only in the field of securities supervision. That was also one of the reasons why the House became active. And we have not only seen massive weaknesses in the securities field, but above all in the field of investor compensation. They will remember that we were all partly amazed at the statements we had made here, and we also know that this question of AeW has been at our disposal since then and is still busy because we have no solution here. The Committee of Inquiry has rightly called for a massive reform of the entire supervision, OeNB and FMA – since not only the FMA was affected but also the OeNB – and we have made a structural change and defined how supervision should work in the future: by continuing to have a four-eye principle, but a clear separation of who is responsible for what: Who makes research, analysis? And: Who is the authority, who has the authority function? As regards the allegation that only persons were exchanged: I mean, he's ridiculous and that for several reasons. First of all, I do not need to change the law in order to exchange people. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Why is the Pribil there? Because the Privil is so impotent?]] And then the question arises: Then why have we changed the whole law, the whole structure? It is also true that the contract has expired on a board of directors and has not been extended, and I think there will have been good reasons to stop extending it. He applied for my knowledge and, by the way, as in the first call for proposals, was not the best. The difference is only that this time the best one has also come to the train. If you remember – there you were, Mr Graf, I think, still in the government and have been sitting here in Parliament in a government group – then this was different: It was not the best thing to do, but the one who was actually excluded from the call for tender because he did not meet the minimum requirements. And that's where you see the difference in how to deal with this. The third problem, which we have of course also identified in the FMA, was not only a legal problem, but also a cultural one. If we remember what a picture this authority has given of the operation of this authority, we must state: It was also a cultural problem that I cannot simply change through a law. However, because of the experience or discussions, I also have the impression that this has greatly improved, i.e. that the culture of the FMA and the relationship between FMA and OeNB is also much more cooperative and that the test culture within the FMA has also become much better. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I hear exactly the opposite!]] That is, the reform of the FMA has been done. The reform of the Aew is open. I believe that, as a Parliament, we have called on the government to take a clear position by the end of May and to present it so that we can reform the Aew as quickly as possible, because it is not functioning as it is now, and therefore does not correspond to a reasonable directive. That's what we know. That's what we found. That's missing, and we still have to do that. Another open question is how to deal with official liability in the future. There are several proposals, and that is certainly something that will concern us. For the specific case, I think, the principles have been set out essentially already; I can only repeat them: The first is that everything that the Federation is now doing to these victims must, of course, be in conformity with the law, but – no, just! – How else should it be except in accordance with law? Only: It is also crucial that, when we note here, we have first instance judgments, as a legislative, we have experience which the executive has certainly not been completely hidden, and the principle: Whoever helps quickly helps twice!, should also be used here. I assume that the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Procuratorship, in the sense of what the Secretary of State has said here, is working to deal with these cases as quickly as possible so that we can come to a reasonable solution here – also in the interests of investors. They have been waiting for their money for many years, and it is to be hoped that they will not have to wait for many more years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14862	Now, Mr Dr. Stumpfully, I would like to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14884	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we all know that the Causa AMIS is a very complex issue. We have also been dealing with this for months in the Banking Investigation Committee. On the other hand, I have to say that what we are discussing today, the basic structure of the problem, is actually a very simple one: We've got a case of damage in the context of the asset investment. Bad enough – the dimensions have already been mentioned –: 16,000 injured, €80 million in damage! The only question here is: Has this damage been caused or caused by a failure of State supervision, financial market supervision? . We have really discussed this very intensively in the Committee of Inquiry. That is what the Minister for Finance has to say: There was no accredited final report here that this suspicion of failure was also hardened. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But why does he say ‘my group’?]] The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has written it in concrete terms! Mr President, we were also beginning to suspect that something did not go as it should have been, but this suspicion could not be hardened. On the other hand, please, we all know that it is not the task of the Committee of Inquiry that Members play judges there, but that is political responsibility. In other words, with regard to the purely legal question: If there is a failure here, will the official liability be due here?, only the courts have to decide; and no one else, Mr. Graf! I am already clear – I have experienced it in the investigation committee –: Many have believed that the MP is such an amateur judge, and he wants to play judges. It can't be! In the Federal Constitution we have enshrined the principle of the rule of law, and we live in a rule of law. The federal budget law includes the principles of economy, economy and effectiveness, and we stick to that. As far as the legal question is concerned, we must say: It's a procedure. I am very glad that Mr Matznetter has pointed out that the financial procuratorship has done much more than it should have done. She didn't say: We lean back, we are the lawyer of the covenant, and now we let things go, and if there is a decision, we will respect them. – No, she did what Mr Matznetter described here in great detail! She has done much more, because we want to help the injured, no question at all. But we can't make it so easy that we just say: The taxpayer is supposed to pay for it! It can't be. I also say very clearly: We may need to call a little more into the awareness that there is no chance without risk. And I don't want one of you to invest his money in the one who promises the highest return on devils, and if that goes by the way, the taxpayer must pay for it! – This is not our philosophy of a responsible charge of money. That is to say, we have done more about the financial procuratorship here than we have to do – in the sense of helping the injured – but the principle of the rule of law can and do not want to shut down. It would be illegal for the Federation to pay here without having a corresponding legal basis. That is why it is absolutely necessary to underline what the Minister of Finance has said in the reply to the question. Of course, it is true, and I would like to admit that – with this we have been dealing with for months now – that the question of AeW, the investor compensation is unsatisfyingly solved, because the amounts that can be raised there by a group of companies are of course not able to jump in accordingly in the event of such a major damage as AMIS. However, there is a discussion in this regard, and gratefully, before the summer, the working group in the Ministry of Finance, which is set up in accordance with our motion for a resolution, will present a report. I am already of the opinion that there is also an intensive need to discuss whether it is really right to say that a group of companies are liable for doing illegal things to a member of this group, for example, investor funds themselves and not deposits at the deposit bank. Can one really represent the principle of saying that a group of businesses are liable for this because one does not comply with laws? We will have to discuss that too. Again: It's a difficult matter. We have told the financial sector that we also want to have an overview of how the other EU countries have regulated this, because I mean, you don't have to invent everything yourself if there are best practice examples in Europe. We will get the report before the summer, and I would like to say: As soon as we have the report, we will have to put in place measures here in Parliament to increase the financial compensation of investors in the interest of all those who receive and invest responsibly, but not in the interest of those who speculate on devils, and if it goes by the way, the taxpayer will pay for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14935	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e14957	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! In the final remarks of the previous speaker, Dr. Stummvoll, one can already see the one or the other question of consideration he has tried. However, the nature of this answer to the question culminates at another point; it has already been addressed. I have it here, and because you have relativized it, Mr Dr. stupidly, I quote now, so that it is quite clear: ‘What the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Financial Market Supervision concluded..., it should be noted that there is no agreed final report from the Committee. ...’. - So far, so good. And on top of that: “The draft report from my group notes that supervisory errors have not been detected.” – So, the Group of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. Now we are at the very point, which could not be more typical of Austrian political understanding, for the living real constitution: The fact that one who was a clubman and a minister – that is not the problem – speaks of his group, but not of the government – is because, after the national elections, of course, two political groups are also represented, that is clear, that is the essence of a coalition – no, he speaks of his group in the National Council! I find that treacherous and striking. But that wouldn't even be the worst. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: He's standing with us!]] Yeah, yeah, it won't be that bad that he wouldn't. But the point is also the following: He first says – what is right, and that is why I also quoted it – that there is no chorded final report. But then, as evidence of admissibility, so to speak, in order to take the intention of Mr Graf's request, he goes back to the report of his group. This was, of course, the ‘signatory’ report in this committee, and your work of information was the ‘road’! Please, thank you, Mr. Dr. stupid, who said you don't need to read the files because you know what you're saying anyway. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] Your contributions have also looked like and listened to! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with greens and FPÖ.]] Perhaps now, one year after the events, we can do discharge exercises here in plenary so that everyone who reads the parliamentary protocols can also read about how we are doing here. But it is not that funny at the end of the day, because it was yours, the group of finance ministers, who tried not to want the Committee at first – that is your right! – but then hindering work, hindering file transmission, making file transmission incomplete in the way that it has been blackened over a fee. Even titles of diplomas have been blackened, although they are publicly available. That's what it was. Your understanding of cooperation government – Parliament! That's what I'm Your understanding is that the audited body should cooperate with those to control! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's still it!]] There is nothing higher than the National Council when it comes to – and I may quote you – political responsibility. Obviously, you have understood that in the meantime. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] However, you will only come up with this if you, as it were, want to put into play the relativization of the higher instance, which we also accept, namely the independent courts. If it is a matter of getting out of the way of the usual legislative procedures here, which in this country are made more by party headquarters and social partners than by Members here, if it is a question of the Members being able to control something, then the judges will come to your attention, because they are the better and the more correct. But I accept: There is consensus that investigation committees should clarify political responsibility. But then it cannot be said that those who want to carry out this clarification are not yet guided by those who hinder them, but the disability report does not contain anything in it. That's your logic. And so that this doesn't go further, I'm going to go here and send Mr Martin Graf's book to the Ministry of Finance at my own expense so that we don't have to discuss such questions here again. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with greens and FPÖ.]] We shall also follow the request made by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group. This is a question of political hygiene here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's what I announced to you. In the matter itself, one can really argue nicely. It is strange that we have a construction for the investor compensation company – my speaking time is ending, Madam President – which is exactly the same that if you need it, it does not work. Something has to happen. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] When Mr Krainer announces an initiative, we say: Better yesterday than today! But if it doesn't go any other way, Better tomorrow than tomorrow! Let's see.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15066	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15088	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr President, why should the Republic pay when people go after high returns and get caught so to speak, so to speak, to install them? . An answer to this is also a report from the Committee of Inquiry which does not come from my group. But I think that if the Minister of Finance is trying to get his group's report, I would like to join in with it and also with your group's efforts. It says literally: “This was all possible because, in view of the promised high commissions, the AMIS products were extremely aggressively marketed. At the same time, investors were promised fantastically high returns, which were not to be taken into account by the prescribed caution that is necessary in the case of non-Austrian funds.” – So these have disregarded the necessary caution! The fact is, however, that AMIS has received a concession from a federal office. And this has allowed sellers to come to the market here who acted at the border of integrity, i.e. with almost unfair means to be released to customers, investors, small and small-scale investors. Of course, the legislator has tried to communicate these relevant standards and regulations, in the form of securities supervisory protocols, risk profiles and so on. But if you look closely at this, you can see a lot of paper that can be used as a sales support from a woven - not a serious - but a woven - salesman, in the form that the customer is afraid of by himself, when he sees such a pack of paper that he has to fill with the consultant – I have said: unscrupulously, but weaved – and in between he gets to hear again and again: [[Abg. Hornek: Then it's the wrong advisor!]] We have to do that, because you also want ten, 15 percent return! That's how it works in practice, and that's what you have to introduce specifically. That can't be, because that hurts us in Austria itself. By the way, the following questions have been raised: “What will you do to help the injured? What measures have you taken or will you take to support the affected investors and pay them? “ The answer is shocking: Nothing. – I quote from it: “It may be legitimate – from the point of view of those affected by the consequences of AMIS insolvency – to make claims for compensation by the public authorities. (...) Those funds which are to be used in the event of benefits come from the levying of all taxable persons in Austria: a benefit without a legal basis is therefore not eligible.’ All right. So either I need a legal basis – and if I don't have it, what will be considered? Then the Aew pays. It must then go into bankruptcy, and for that the Republic is only liable again. So the cat bites in the tail. It would be much easier, as my colleague Graf suggested, to make a comparison. That is also a legal basis. Conlusio: The Republic is responsible for the fact that it could come to these machinations, it has at least granted a concession. It is also liable for me, according to logical understanding. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, first and foremost we want proper answers to properly formulated questions. When it comes to protecting individual citizens or investors, it is all the more so.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15162	The request for non-knowing of the request has been duly filed and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15187	Madam President. Dear members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, everyone will understand the questions raised by Mr Graf and, above all, the attitude he takes as much money as possible for investors who have lost a total of €80 million. However, I also understand the way that the Federal Government has chosen, because it is clear that it is necessary to wait for the final instance of judicial rulings before the financial procuratorship opens the way for a disbursement. They also do not want the Federal Government to assume that it does not act in accordance with the law. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But if they win at OGH, then what is it? Then who pays? The Republic of Austria! That's a joke!]] That's where we have to look. That's about 80 million euros that are out there, and it's about legal certainty. On the basis of this, a payment must be made, but not in advance or in the form of a compensation. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I think we didn't go far enough in the field of FMA at all. Because today the Court of Auditors report has also been tightened, which, by the way, is on the agenda tomorrow: The Court of Auditors has made 22 recommendations in total, and almost half of them have been fulfilled. But, as with many measures, it is always necessary to do a great deal of damage before the Federal Government begins to act. Then actions are made much later and also far too little efficiently, so that one can never assume that we really have a law here that would be reasonable. Whatever the case of AMIS has certainly taught us is that we must be vigilant in the financial market when securities come up with over-return promises. The alarm bells in the FMA and in the OeNB must already say that these products must be subject to an increased review. If institutional investors reject these products and then bring these products to the man with very high returns promises, this is in need of information and should be the top priority for the FMA. I believe that there will be a great deal to be done in this context and, above all, it must be pointed out that the second half of the Court of Auditors has not yet been dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15229	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Graf, ladies and gentlemen, not to take note of the reply to the question. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of their lack of knowledge to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[15:46:01]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15269	I take the negotiations on the second. Agenda item again. Mrs Dr. Brinek has spoken. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15293	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to refer to the debate on the Federal Law on the attainment of the degree qualification for studies at educational universities and to observe with some attention the development, for example in the university field or in the context of the transfer of professional maturity examinations. You know, you are admitted to study at the university or, in our case, at the educational university. They are not authorised for the entire tertiary or post-secondary education area. What do the numbers look like? After all, there are a few hundred, or, you'll see, there's more. Since the introduction of the professional maturity test – thanks to the initiators, Werner Amon and others at the time – the number has increased from 861 to 2 144 people from 2001. The professional maturity test is a variant that opens and allows access to all studies or almost all studies after the stage of professional training. The top countries are Upper Austria with 665 and Vienna with 406. Vienna has a little less, of course, because there are various types of educational opportunities. In this context, the numbers of academic qualifications at the universities decrease. This is easy to explain, because one chooses the option professional maturity test and thus has a wider access. At least at first glance, it is gratifying to see that the major universities are, of course, in front of us and that it is also a majority of women who choose this almost second path of education, this second start. To Mr Brosz I would like to say: He is greatly negligent when he quotes OECD and other studies, which leads to the further development of teacher and teacher education. Of course, there are studies in the OECD report that indicate that the Central European tradition of separate teacher training needs to be further developed. However, he also conceals the fact that in the future it will essentially be about such a thing as certification, that is to say, a modular structure, and that teachers across Europe are confronted with what the Federal Minister of Education is always discussing: They must justify their performance, their quality, they are in the exhibition. In the case of more modular, individual construction policy, the quality must be justified more and more. In countries – including the OECD – where there are enough teachers, such as in some parts of Germany, Austria, Finland and so on, there are access restrictions with quality standard development. In other countries where there is a lack, you think about other things. So: Simplification must never be the cause of education politicians, but reasonable developments should be seen at a pragmatic level. Such a reasonable step will be taken with the possibility for non-maturants to be admitted to educational universities. I'm glad there's a broad agreement here. I wish these for many more materials, too. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15338	Next speaker: Mrs Zwerschitz. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15360	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! We also believe that this study exam is a good thing, because it is always good if more people have the opportunity to consume more education. What does it mean, though, to have completed such a study qualification examination? – First of all, for the person concerned, that the procedure starts only if he is allowed to study at this educational university. The educational universities are autonomous in this area, they are very different. Some provide quite precise reception talks to determine the motivation of future students, others make it easier for students to be accepted. So what happens if the study candidates are not taken? - You don't have anything in your hand. They have a degree examination, which they have made for a certain degree, but they are unfortunately unable to go to the university with this degree qualification exam. The impact on educational universities is also not only positive, because it is not going in the direction that the educational universities are fully-fledged universities. If we make a difference in access rights again, then it is manifested that the educational universities do not have the same standard as a university. With this we are firmly convinced that there will continue to be no joint training of kindergartens, teachers, but also teachers at higher schools. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is not the European way!]] And even if this is not the European way, Mrs Brinek, this does not mean that it must be automatically excluded for Austria as well. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: We won't be able to go a special way here!]] In the next few years, many teachers will retire. That is to say, we will first have some teachers who are superlative because the number of students is falling, but in the next few days we will need more and more teachers to be as well trained as possible. In particular, we would like this joint training. Let me say something to the debate on the morning. I would like to see something else, something very important and very often addressed in the area of youth welfare in the last working groups: There is a great desire and the great need that teachers also be trained to be better able to recognize violent cases, to be more adorned in recognizing what it means when a child, for example, suddenly develops concentration defects or any conspicuous behavioral patterns. It is so different to understand that there is a need for a personal education here, and I would like it to take place as quickly as possible in the educational universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15416	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Kurzmann. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15437	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The novelle of this law for the study of pedagogy universities will be passed unanimously today, as I believe. The presentation is the legal basis for the fact that non-maturants at the educational universities can also take a Bachelor's degree. In terms of content, the law regulates the approval and examination procedures, the areas of examination, the requirements for the examinations and also the composition of the examination committee and many other details. It is of particular importance to us liberals that, after the preliminary discussions in the Committee, a small change is now being made, namely that the Master's examination is also a criterion for the qualification of studies. We are pleased that once again the request of a member of the opposition is included and incorporated into the text of the law. It is an important social policy signal for us, namely a sign that the craft sector in Austria is also being upgraded and recognised. If you look at § 5 of the text of the law – it contains the examination requirements – you realize that the examiners must be familiar with the “basis of the history of the Republic of Austria”, as it is literally called here. I think that this is an essential provision. I consider it important for the awareness of history in our country, important for the awareness of democracy. But I also think it is too short, because history of the Republic is undoubtedly important, but historical awareness not only includes the history of the Second Republic, but also, of course, includes the First Republic and other things. The history of the k. u.k. monarchy would also be subsumed below. We have also discussed in the Committee that, for example, in Hungarian schools, history teaching is given greater importance than in Austria, which means that Hungarian students in general know better about the history of their country, but also about European history. I also hold § 5 para. 2 of this law is important to establish that a candidate must prove in a written work that he can express himself on a given subject, as it is here – and I quote literally – “in an impeccable and misguided language with a clear line of thought”. The preservation of the language culture, the linguistic expression, the expansion of the vocabulary, this is of a very special importance especially in today's time of shortened expressions, at a time when text messages and e-mail dominate the exchange of ideas. Finally, I would just like to take a brief look at the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Graf. Mr Broukal said that the SPÖ will not be able to join this request because there is a coalition agreement. [[Abg. Broukal: Today cannot join!]] Not able to join today. But, Mr Broukal, I may ask you to implement your election, because it was one of the central election statements and a central promise... [[Abg. Broukal: In July 2010 with your help we will implement it!]] Yes, we will see if you can support our request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15506	Next speaker: Mrs Schasching. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15527	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I too would like to place myself in the ranks of those who welcome today's law. The granting of the opportunity to drop the university degree examination for all those interested in training in educational professions is a very good idea, and above all it is a professionalization towards university maturity. This is already going in the direction, which is still an important goal for us, namely the university training of all educational professions in a common university. This should be possible at some point. And we are very happy when the universities of Education are now in the right direction and making an offer that is important and necessary for all users of this important institution, especially in the field of further education. However, I would like to point out that the joint training of all pedagogical professions should, of course, include those of kindergartens, because we no longer want to be the last in the world. That is, we want to go towards high-quality university education. In a pedagogical profession, both the entrance qualification and the schulpractical training are of great importance; the former pedagogical academies have done so in an excellent way. This must be a joint work in the direction of best-qualified staff for our students with a profound practical training, but also an appropriate basic scientific training with qualitative knowledge acquisition. Around school there are very, very many experts who speak, but lately also many popular scientists or simply and simply people from the people who express themselves on the subject of school. The already well-known book “The Talented Students and His Enemies” has motivated me to read in what a person expects from the teachers in our school system. I quote here from Andreas Salcher's book: Teachers have always had two tasks: To teach knowledge and to be a reference person for the children and thus also to exercise responsibility for education. This more important task of the teacher as a person and a referee is neither honoured nor supported nor often expected, teachers were not trained to do so either: to listen to the children, even if they do not seem to want to talk, to give the children the feeling that they are understood and accepted in their world, to teach the children responsibility for their own lives. - Quote. Of course Salcher doesn't want to be misunderstood: Teachers are not social workers. However, we also need these people in the system school to be able to absorb some of the things that happen around our children in this country and what happens to them, just as we have debated in the morning. I think you are on the right path, Mrs Federal Minister, because the system school needs the trained educators, social workers and social workers and many, many cooperations to improve quality. And the system school needs resources first and foremost. I would like to thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, as well as the coalition partner, for having made so important projects in the Council of Ministers today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15573	Mrs Fuhrmann is the next speaker. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15594	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am quite right in giving my previous speaker when it comes to putting in the foreground that our children have earned the best possible training teachers. And that is why it is high time to rethink teacher training in Austria. In view of current developments, I would also like to suggest that it is particularly important in our society today to give all teachers – whether at a primary school or at a secondary level – the educational resources in order to deal with the children and the problems children have. In my opinion, it would be a step in this direction, but to consider whether it would be useful to initiate a uniform training for all teachers, which, above all, also focuses on the educational part. This law, however, deals mainly with the issue of extending the circle of those who should be able to become teachers. It can only be in our interest if this is basically opened up the opportunity to apply at least once, and then the best teachers can be filtered out. However, this higher education law essentially contains the admission and examination procedures, the areas of examination as well as the requirements and methods in the examinations, the recognition of examinations and performance, the Re-examination of the possibilities for re-examination of the examinations as well as the composition of the examination committee. I think the excitement in this possibility will be that in the future people from practice – those who have worked for a long time – will also have the opportunity to return to the tertiary education sector and their accumulated knowledge, their practical experience also as an additional qualification – and as such you will have to see them! - to contribute to the teaching profession. Our central concern has always been to make the education system permeable, to maintain permeability and to give young people the opportunity that no training route will ever become a one-way road. This law respects this claim. I therefore welcome the agreement of all the parties here in Parliament on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15639	Mr Rada is now speaking. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15661	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! After more than an hour of debate on university access for the educational university, there is consensus. That's not what we need to shake. However, there are some other approaches in this discussion which have also been addressed. My compliment, Mrs Fuhrmann! They said it was important to use all educational resources for a common school and teacher training. This is my compliment, because this is also my access to the entire teacher training. This has also already been a criticism of Green MEPs, a criticism that I can fully agree with, because we have different access to university education for teachers and the field of training for those who go to compulsory school who go through the educational college. If we want in total the best possible way for our students, for society as a whole, there can only be the best possible training for teachers. No matter if it takes place somewhere at the university of Education or at the university. There must be no social barriers in education management, no more in status quo, according to the motto: Who Is a Higher Trainer? Who's a better teacher? Who has a higher title from the outset? – This too is an important thing in Austria! – And how are the pay schemes for all those teachers entering the education field? For us Social Democrats, it is important that for all our young people, for our students, the best qualified teachers are there. And the prelude that many should come out of the economy today is only a positive sign. For it shall not be one: Schools and teachers are not an elitist society that is thus inherited. Teachers are parents, children become teachers, and what actually happens in society is not always known. I therefore strongly support these advances. Mrs. Minister, you are on the best way with your colleague, Hahn, that we will soon have a joint teacher training in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15703	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15724	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The current regulation of the study qualification examination, which allows persons without Matura to study at educational universities, improves access to the teaching profession. I expressly welcome the fact that this five-party agreement has now succeeded in defining the recognition of the Master's exam. This also means a clear appreciation of the teaching. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me take a look at the educational universities in general, which have now been at the heart of criticism over and over again – also in this debate. If we only had the training of teachers at the universities, for example in Vorarlberg this would be the end of teacher training. I think that would be a great step back, especially for the educational landscape of our country, that is, Vorarlberg. I note that students are very well prepared for their future career at the educational universities in particular. At our university in Feldkirch, we strive to establish ourselves as an educational and educational centre of competence. In close cooperation with the Vorarlberg educational landscape, school topics are researched and innovative school development processes are accompanied. Now, just after the first year of study at the PH Vorarlberg as well as after extensive evaluations, optimizations in the Bachelor's degree course are taking place for the next year of study. There will be meaningful alliances and networking in thematic areas, without neglecting the differentiated offer in various disciplines or school types. A very special focus is placed on strengthening the teacher's personality. Our education system needs well-trained and motivated educators, because they are the ones who, with their work, are substantially contributing to the development of our society. The good teachers do not see their job as a job, but they are the ones who like the children and view the children holisticly – and not just parts of their achievements. This new regulation of the degree examination is to be welcomed, as it allows for improved access to the educational universities.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15771	Mrs Mag. Muttonen is the next speaker. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15792	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore a question of permeability in this university degree law, which essentially includes the study qualification examination for the educational universities. Thus, a legal basis is created that people can also register at educational universities without matura. The approval and examination procedures, the areas of examination and the requirements and the recognition of examinations or benefits and the like shall be regulated. Thus, with this novelle we ensure comparable possibilities as at universities and, as mentioned above, the necessary permeability. What has already been possible at the previous educational academies should now also apply to the new educational universities. I consider this enlargement to be important and correct. High demands are placed on modern teachers. Pure professional competence has long been too little to be able to practice the teacher's profession. It also needs skills such as social competence, team ability, complex thinking. Yes, even mental and physical loadability are important. Therefore, in the sense of the best possible teachers for our children, it is right that motivated people with love for the profession can really take this path and not be prevented by bureaucratic obstacles. In education, we are at a time of necessary change and adaptation to new events. The first joint New Secondary Schools will make their walk in autumn. Smaller classes, but above all individual care, independent creative work are the focus. But new concepts will also come to fruition, such as the offensive against violence. We have discussed in great detail today how important prevention is. I think that's a great initiative, Mrs. Minister! The school as a cultural centre will also be introduced as a new concept. You can also see and understand today's regulation as a transitional solution, because our goal should be a common university education for all teachers. This is also being worked on in the course of the existing broad debate on education, as the first agreements of Minister of Education Schmied and Minister of Science, Hahn, show. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15834	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Schelling. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15856	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We are dealing with an important issue today, even though some believe that it is possible to do so by the way. The training of teachers is one of the four main pillars of an output question, in addition to the parents, the institution and the students themselves. The question raised is: Why do we need this regulation, why can't we integrate it? – With some “climbs” one could have integrated this too, but so far the situation was such that this was regulated in the school organisation law and in the external regulations before the education of the educational academies. That is why it is now important to reorganise this whole thing, because it is also redefined by the approval regulations. What do these exams have to say? – They choose very specifically with candidates those parts of the training that are necessary to enable them to take up their future profession accordingly. They also limit the possibilities, because with this degree examination only access to the educational universities is meant and no general admission to study is required. This, too, makes sense to regulate this in a law of its own. However, this law also regulates the admission to the examination procedure, the areas of examination, the requirements and methods as well as the recognition of examinations and services. That is why it would be desirable, Mrs Federal Minister, if the type of qualification test for teachers, which you have already publicly announced, would also be a liability before this qualification examination, so that no one makes false ideas about his future professional requirements. [[Abg. Parnigoni:... introduce immediately in Lower Austria!]] – We can welcome that! Lower Austria is going its own way, as we know, and that is why we can do it. From the point of view of the economy – I would like to stress this very much – I also link this new regulation with several hopes. On the one hand, I very much welcome the fact that the Masters' exams were still in place here. I believe that this is not only an important step in the right direction, but also a recognition of the achievements arising from the education system of teaching and the master's examination. And I also see the chance that this may be an incentive for more people from professional practice to also opt for the profession of teacher or teacher, perhaps also to be enthusiastic about it and thus to become more colorful, diverse and lively in school.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15895	Next speaker: Mr Elmar Mayer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15920	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, it seems to be that way – that is also the delight of today’s debates by several Members, including the coalition partner – that a breakthrough in the field of teacher training is under way. As Minister Hahn said: It is an objective of this coalition to set the course by the year 2010 to ensure that a joint teacher training can take place in the medium term. – This is clearly common concern now. I think that's important. It's crucial. Today's morning debate has also shown how important it is that we have university-educated educators in all areas up to and including early education. This is a requirement of time, and we must comply with it. I am pleased that several ÖVP representatives have underlined this today. A sentence on Mr Brosz, because we discussed the subject of legathenia. Of course, this is still a problem in schools. It is not just the main problem in training, because it has been a training module for many years and is now being strengthened. Nevertheless, the children of course have this problem. There are self-help groups where I myself am involved; I have helped them to provide the school in which I have taught for courses et cetera. These problems are there, you have to do too. But this is not a major problem in the field of training. It is not only possible to shift everything to the field of training. One important issue seems to me to be the qualification. With the education standards, the central matura and so on, the subject will also be addressed: How do we want to qualify teachers? How should you actually find out when someone is suitable to be a teacher? I remember – that's two or three years ago – that young, highly committed people – it was above all two women – could not become teachers and quit their studies because they did not manage to climb up a rod because they did not manage to run five kilometers at a given time! However, they would have been equipped with the highest social competence. It is precisely these things that we have discussed today that they would have been with the children. It is not possible to deal with it. However, they were prevented from becoming teachers because of such, rather ridiculous criteria. I think it's crucial that we make this bridge and say: It's right that the best really work with our children. But then we must also have the grace to set the appropriate course. I am hopeful that this is possible due to the new quality in coalition cooperation. I would like that for the future of our school, teachers and, in fact, for our own future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e15971	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law in 522 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Niederwieser, Mr Neugebauer, Mr Brosz, Mr Graf, Mr Ursula Haubner and others have tabled an amendment or amendment. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Brosz, fellow Members. I therefore begin by voting on the parts of the bill concerned by the proposed amendment or the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Government bill. Deputies Dr. Niederwieser, Neugebauer, Brosz, Dr. Graf, Ursula Haubner, colleagues and colleagues have tabled an additional or amendment amendment concerning Article 1 § 6 and § 13. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 2 of the draft law as it stands. I would ask those members of the House who are in favour of it to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the draft government. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues, on improving the quality of teacher education. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Martin Graf, colleagues, on the abolition of tuition fees. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. I therefore proceed as follows: The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Member and the name "Yes" – these are the grey polls – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf, colleagues, on the abolition of tuition fees, to vote in favour of the 'No' vote. I now ask the author, Mr Marianne Hagenhofer, to begin with the name call. Mrs. Dr. Brinek will replace her later.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e16115	I ask you: Did all give their votes? – The vote is thus terminated. The members of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the experts. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e16157	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 159; of which ‘yes’ votes: 37, ‘No’ votes: 122. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf, colleagues, on the abolition of tuition fees is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Aspock; Belakovich-Jenewein, Brosz; Fichtenbauer; Grain duration, grave, green forest; Haidlmayr, Haimbuchner, Hauser, Hofer, Hradecsni; Klement, Kogler, Kurzmann; Lunacek; Mandak, Mayerhofer, Moser; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Pillow, Pirklhuber; Rossmann; Sburny, honey, stone houser, street; themesl; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky, Vock; Weinzinger Brigid, Weinzinger Lutz; Singer, Zinggl, Dwarf. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Klaus Hubert; Bauer, Bayr, Mulder, Binder-Maier, Brinek, Broukal, Bucher; Cap, Csörgits; Darmann, Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, Schlag; Eder Sebastian, Eder-Gitschthaler, Ehmann, Einwallner, Eisenschenk, Eßl; Fazekas, Fleckl, Franz, Freund, Fuhrmann, Fürntrath-Moretti; Gahr Hermann, Gaßner, Glaser, Grander, Grillitsch, Großruck; Haberzettl, Hagenhofer, Hakl, Haubner Peter, Haubner Ursula, Heinzl, Hlavac, Höfinger, Höllerer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg, Hursky; Ikrath; Jarolim; Kainz, Chapel, chapel, church-gatterer, knoll, carriage, crane, herbs, crystal, kukacka, kuntzl, kuzdas; Lapp, Lentsch, Lohfeyer, Lueger; Maier Johann, Marizzi, Mayer Elmar, Mikesch, Morak; Neugebauer Fritz, Niederwieser; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Parnigoni, Pendl, Pepper, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Prince; Rada Robert, Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reheis, Riener Barbara, Riepl, Zeit Sylvia, Rudas; Sound, Schasching, Scheibner, Schelling, Schiedner Andreas, Schittenhelm, Schönpass, Schopf, Schultes, Schussel, Sieber Norbert, Sonnberger, Spindelberger Erwin, Spindelegger Michael, Stadlbauer, Stadler Astrid, Steibl Ridi, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Stumvoll; Tamandl; Westenthaler, Wimmer, Wittmann, Wöinger, Wurm; Zweytick. [[16:32:48]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 4. Point Report and request of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the draft federal law amending the 2006 reference quantity allocation regulation (551 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e16363	We now come to points 3 and 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Ladies and gentlemen! I may ask for a little forbearance, it is tried to remove the glass of the broken door. I can also ask you not to use this door to a large extent today – we do not know exactly what the cause of this door was going to break – and we also have to use the sounds a little bit at the moment. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Pirklhuber was the first to speak. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e16397	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! This new market regulation has been negotiated very briefly. We discussed yesterday very intensively in the Committee on Agriculture. There have been several amendments which have been tabled on a regular basis. – I would like to look beyond the procedure. When it comes to important things, you will find time to discuss them. In any case, we have been very serious and exactly concerned with the materials and can hold on: Even if we act counter to and will be opposed to this new market regulation at third reading, we will have some concrete points at second reading; I will also address them briefly. On the one hand, this is the adjustment under the hardness scheme – even if it is very difficult in detail; we know that the negotiations have always been laborious – in order to include in the scheme those farms that have not received any premiums at all. We are also in favour of aid to school milk suppliers, which is what we see as the right decision. We also think it is right that, in the context of cross compliance, it is possible to waive sanctions in the event of minor infringements, so-called "bagatell limits" are introduced. And the central part of this novel – so to speak, with a view to a certain public relevance – is the provisions on the transparency of agricultural support. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! This is certainly a crucial step: Once all funding is transparent – this could generally apply to all funding, such as in Upper Austria, where any grant is also presented transparently – a serious analysis can begin. I would also like to point out that this transparency includes export subsidies, and I would also like to point out that it is right to place a service catalogue on the Internet in this context. There is one thing about this – I would also like to highlight it at the beginning of my speech. And, Mr Federal Minister, I have been convinced – you will be surprised, because yesterday in the committee I was against it: The arguments you made in connection with milk quotas were at least understandable in this respect. I say it is difficult to assess what will really be in 2013. This is not very easy to evaluate now, it can go out like that. - So that's on the front. But in principle, ladies and gentlemen, the criticism of the scheme of farm premiums, of the design of the first pillar of agricultural policy in Europe, Mr Auer, not for reasons of principle, but because of general questions you know, namely... [[Abg. Jakob Auer: A bit of a critical remark you really have to make!]] [[Abg. Grill: From ideological...!]] Very probably for ideological reasons – you are right, Mr Grillitsch – because we believe that distribution justice must also be a very important ceiling and prerequisite for agricultural support. [[Abg. Grill: What is the alternative?]] And it is not fair to distribute if there are on the one hand farms that get several thousand euros per hectare, and on the other hand farms that do not get anything at all. [[Abg. Grill: What is the alternative? Tell me what the alternative is!]] This is the challenge: it is currently an unfair system that distorts competition. [[Abg. Grillitsch: I would be interested in the alternative, Mr. Cot! What is the alternative?]] I'm going to tell you what we're asking for. Our minimum requirements, Mr Grillitsch, are two, three points which could already be started under this existing market order: a fundamental commitment to the fact that every farmer, active farmers in agriculture, also has a minimum right to a basic premium, namely that basic premium, which is due to maintain an agricultural and forestry activity in the sense of maintaining food security. That's the challenge, Minister of State! So far, this has not been implemented. There are farmers who have to run without a cent premium – and others get hundreds of thousands of euros! That's unfair! There is an urgent need for action. And we would have proposed that the hardness fund should be used to increase the hardness fund, but we would have the opportunity to bring it to the regional average of the premiums at least. – This is an essential point of criticism. In wine-growing – I would also like to tell you – the regulation that has been taken here is not acceptable either. I will explain it to you: 4,000 hectares are anyway too much. We are generally opposed to redundancies – you can then answer how you see it. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] We are in Austria against redundancies – these are quality wines. You know our vines, and I know them too. The second is that it is not excluded in this scheme that a holding receives redundancies and, with another farm number, receives new crop premiums at the same time, namely that it suspends a wine culture. This too is unfortunately not regulated, and this abuse is imaginable. [[Abg. Zweytick: That's limited! There is already a regulation!]] Yes, Mr. Zweytick. And the Styria has clearly said: We're not red at all! - Okay. I very much appreciate the Styrian winery. We know your wine, it's excellent, and I understand the Styrian winegrowers. – If it is, then I must say, however, that this regulation is completely inadequate, for several reasons which I have tried to address. Finally, to address a number of aspects: The question of freedom of genetic engineering in energy plants has not been answered by the law. You said in committee that there is no such thing as this, there are other laws that regulate it. Today's Commission decision shows that the Commission has not been able to get through again to finally put the risk regime on new legs, it has done nothing but call the EFSA again – where we know that EFSA is a lobby institution in the genetic engineering industry! Mr Federal Minister, you have to make this criticism happen. Where are your initiatives to make use of the scope? Where do the activities of SPÖ remain in order to set the appropriate impulses? We want to carry a red tape reduction – that makes sense. We want to use the agricultural environment funding, Mr. Federal Minister, who has cut you by more than € 130 million. And we want more distribution justice in the agricultural policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e16517	Mr Grillitsch has now come to speak. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e16539	Federal Minister! Madam President. I very much regret, Mr Pirklhuber, that the path of greens – the path of sawing, hesitation and non-decision – will continue and that, in the end, you will not agree to a decision that will bring an advantage to all farmers and will give all farmers in Austria appropriate planning security. I take note that the Greens do not want it and that they do not agree. However, I can only You appeal: Change your way of hesitation, sawing, and not deciding! You'd be well advised. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that these novelties have finally been negotiated for our farmers. I am also truly grateful to our government partner that it was possible to prepare this market regulation law in a very constructive way to present this draft law for decision. As has already been said, it brings many benefits to the farmers in Austria. We can only warn in the event of minor offenses and do not have to punish them immediately. This is like football: One does not immediately show the red map, but first shows the yellow – with the farmers in the form of a warning. It is clear, and we must do so in the future: With all the laws, with everything we design and decide here, we should not always wake up with the red card, because then sometime no farmers will be in the field. I am therefore very glad that this border of luggage finally falls – especially for the peasant farms. There is also a good opportunity for new entrants – especially for young farmers – to enter this system. Mr Pirklhuber, on the farm premium: Get to the heart, we really don't have a better solution at this time. Nor do we know how it continues in the EU and how much money is available for this pillar in the future. It would therefore be just too irresponsible to make a change in the operating premium now. It is really better to wait carefully to prepare for the post-2013 period and make appropriate decisions. I am very glad that there are also appropriate changes for fruit and vegetable farmers that we can strengthen the products on the market. Of course, the products must also have a corresponding value. With the new law, we can also strengthen producer organisations so that they can better position themselves in the market together and in a closed position. An important point is also – and I am very grateful to the Federal Minister for the fact that the preparations for high-speed tours are under way – that we resolve the question of transparency before the EU: With 1. In June 2008, we will reveal the support, the compensatory payments of farmers and also the benefits of farmers in a transparent form. Mr Pirklhuber referred to school milk aid. That is, I think, very important, especially for our children in school. – There are so many points where we agree, and you still do not agree. I don't quite understand that, but that's probably a Justament stand that you can't agree to the good proposals when they come from us. School milk aid is really about providing our children with regional, healthy, fresh products in good time. I would also like to thank the teachers, the staff, also the school guards very much for helping our youth, our students to provide this service. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Also the communities that pay!]] – And, of course, Mr Gässner, including the many communities, which also participate in the costs accordingly. On the question of milk quotas – a good, essential and, of course, difficult subject. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Overturned in Brussels!]] – No, we voted against it! If you didn't sleep, you'd have to know. We voted against. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] We have always spoken clearly against this increase in milk quotas, because we do not think it useful, Mr Haimbuchner. Nevertheless, now – after the EU has decided to do so – we are able to distribute 68 800 tonnes in Austria, because we cannot lead them to the national reserve, and it would be just too irresponsible to abstain from farmers in Austria. Therefore, we will distribute them to all milk suppliers in Austria – just as the last time – because we do not know what the framework conditions for dairy farmers in Austria will look like after 2014/15. It is a very essential point – especially in our mountain farming areas – to know what alternatives are available if the milk quota is no longer available, which possibilities exist to further strengthen and expand milk production in the mountain areas, the less favoured areas, but also in Austria as a whole. That is the crucial question. That is why we really need to prepare, monitor closely, try to find as many allies as possible at the Brussels level as possible, so that we can give the farmers the necessary safety for milk production, especially in Austria. Mr Pirklhuber, I would like to ask you once again: Think if you don't want to agree! I think that would be a good contribution for farmers in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e16603	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement to speak. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e16624	Madam President. Minister! High house! This request proves that the whole legislative situation in the field of agriculture is already so complicated that no one knows each other. You can ask yourself whether this flood of law is not a self-interest to provide a few Brussels bureaucrats and AMA delegates in Austria work, because if you look at this request, you will see a rage of references and appointments. Old rules remain in force, some are supplemented, remain until 30. June 2008 in force – the fruit and vegetable remuneration regulation, the intervention butter regulation, the starch/sugar production refund regulation and so on. ==References== In July 2008, other laws remain in force, for example with regard to payments in the wine sector. ==References== Other laws shall remain in force on August 2008: Fisheries legislation, casein aid regulation, skimmed milk powder regulation and so on. - A mess! If someone is to understand this, if a farmer is to read it, he needs legal advice. – This is no longer feasible for an ordinary farmer. But that's just a part: On the one hand, this huge flood of legislative texts, dates and references on the part of the EU, and on the other hand, Mr Minister, also self-discipline and even the self-imposed labor tasks. I have already mentioned this to you on several occasions in the Committee. Please be open and say what Austria and what you as Minister of Agriculture can do to finally relieve the farmers of this red tape! I asked you – you did not comply with this request – to explain why farmers are also forced by Statistics Austria to carry out further agricultural structure surveys – under the obligation of information and under threat of penalties for administrative violation! It's still open to this day. Mr Minister, please give us an answer. It will be high time you communicate a little better with Parliament and respond a little more to the concerns of farmers! Now on the content, for example wine, which Mr Pirklhuber has cut: The European Union will support the decommissioning of 200 000 hectares with 1 billion euros. Objective: improve wine quality. That's all right. If you consider what fuel the Spanish or the Italian produce and what happens to panties across Europe, then that is all right. But why, with its high-quality wine, should Austria help to stop these sourries in other European countries? - It can't be! [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] If we really want to contribute to this, Minister, please clarify the European Union where good wine grows, where good wine is grown – in Austria! We do not see that in Austria we are supposed to have 4,000 hectares red, just so that you can stand well in Spain and Greece and join us to play this cruel game. Second point, cereals: Without further debate, ministers will also set import duties on cereals at zero in order to improve supply in the EU. – As far as information from the EU is concerned. This means nothing more than more foreign grain from the WTO to break the price again in order to continue to drive farmers into an income sheath. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: You are constantly talking about price reductions!]] Next point, abolition of the milk quota: I can well remember how the EIA in the Committees was still very much opposed to the increase in the milk quota. You have said that you will fight against this quota increase in the EU. Now the quota increase is coming, and the EIA is doing exactly the opposite of what it has promised before. [[Abg. Prince: And how did the Minister...?]] It celebrates this quota and says that at last we have to distribute tons and quotas again, at last we can give the farmers more. Where, please, is the ÖVP line? They're falling down on the couch! That's incredible. [[Abg. Prince: You've been lying all the time!]] Next item, sugar market reform: Quota of 13.5 percent. Fischer Boel says if sugar bread does not help, we take the whip, according to the motto: If you are not willing, I need violence. – Farmers are being tormented again. Minister! In these initiatives relating to the Market Regulation Act, only the gradual and creeping destruction of Austrian agriculture as well as European agriculture is in the background. That is a fact, and that is why we are against this market order in general. This is not the way in which agricultural policy is to be made in Europe. We know where the worm is. We also know that farmers have understood very well where future problems lie, because the WTO has long considered where it can put the lever where it can prevail in the area of European agriculture, precisely with customs openings. This brings structural collapses of agriculture. This brings social problems. This poses problems in food security and self-sufficiency. Finally, this also brings a food thickness on the part of the EU Group. Mr Minister, this is not the way we want to go! The only thing that remains as a small shimmer of hope is that these cross-compliance provisions are finally a little loosened. You yourself have said that we need to carry out further analyses in order to finally achieve simplifications. That is why we are putting forward a motion for a resolution in order to achieve restrictions on cross-compliance. There is an increasing red tape of farmers with incredible control. I would like to quote from a report from your ministry. This is a study entitled "What brought about the EU's accession to Austrian agriculture?" It reads: "A good part of the exodus by-products has not only been locked up from a pessimistic perspective, but they have also felt overwhelmed in relation to the scope of the activities by the bureaucratic requirements such as the multiple applications, the necessary recording work, the recording obligations and the various controls. Not only have the budgetary and financial dependence of farmers on the agricultural administration increased enormously, but also the public control system per se has significantly expanded the dependence and foreign determination of farmers.” – This is fact. This has also been so illuminated in your ministries. That is why we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister, take care of your responsibility! Drifts You are not the well-known game that you are telling other things here in Austria than in Brussels, and be honest – not only to us, but also to the rural population, the peasantry in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e16735	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Klement has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e16802	Mrs Binder-Maier is now speaking. 3 minutes desired speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e16823	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd say it like this: It's done! The Novelle 2008 Market Regulation Act is now in place and serves as a basis for national scope due to the changes in EU law. Negotiations – above all with our group, as I mean – were long, tough and sometimes very hard. Federal Minister! But I think the result is a fair and fair law on the market. This means legal certainty for all farmers, constitutional laws and also justice in quota and premium distribution. Ladies and gentlemen, the main points in this Market Regulation Act are that all dairy farmers are taken into account in the distribution of the milk quota and that from 2009 on, there will be more transparency in agricultural production. – It should be clear and comprehensible who will receive what funding. This law also includes consumer and animal protection. The operating premiums are subject to review and also to disbursements in cases of hardness. The third essential point is the legal basis, i.e. the technical resolution of regulations, while the basic principle is otherwise governed by the law. There are two points we need to discuss further. This is, on the one hand, the area of the mother cow and the calf premium. How does this premium look? What membership must the farmer have to get to this premium? – We will still discuss that. The second point is all that has to do with rural development. What does Parliament's co-determination look like? Ladies and gentlemen! It's about good conditions. But it's also about a lot of money. It amounts to €1.8 billion in support of agriculture – € 700 million from the EU budget, 1.1 billion for rural development. Half comes from the EU, the rest from the federal government and country. Mr Klement, I agree with you that it is undisputed that the system of distribution, promotion and subsidies is in fact very complicated and sometimes inconceivable. We'll work on it. We are particularly concerned that a greater degree of fairness, legal certainty and justice are created for farmers in Austria, that independence is ensured by this and that the work and use of farmers in Austria find and maintain a solid – also financial – basis. That is our goal, and we have been working for it as social democrats, and we have, I believe, also enforced it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e16860	Mr Haimbuchner has now come to speak. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e16884	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not surprised that, in the course of this market debate, we are of course hearing once again the Farmers' Federation's obeisance to the Minister for Agriculture, Prince Pröll. But Mr Grillitsch from the Federal Farmers' Federation is no longer here. [[Call the ÖVP: He's here anyway!]] Maybe he'll come when the Minister of State comes a little bit... – Ah, he's not here yet. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It obviously does not consider the subject to be very important. Mr Pröll, I say to you: If you expect us to praise you, you'll be fooled, of course. Of course, we from the FPÖ have to light this up a little differently as an opposition. Federal Minister! Your problem is, you're an announcement politician. I can remember how you said in the Committee on Agriculture that the milk quota must not fall, because we will defend ourselves. [[Abg. Hear: Did she like it?]] And Mr Grillitsch says: We have been against it, and we ask if we would have slept. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Farmers' Federation, a liberal doesn't need as much sleep as you do, but one thing I tell you: You slept then when it came to Austria's accession to the European Union, because now you see the effects. The milk quota will fall by 2015 at the latest. We all know that. Now you can say that you have been against it anyway, but in Brussels you have been voted over. All you have to do is explain this to farmers who will perish. Mr Bundesminister, second point: I remember, as you said in the Committee on Agriculture, that we in Austria are not in question at all. – 200 000 hectares of Europe have always been in discussion, and in Austria we have to let go of the wine soup that Spanish, French and Italian have incubated us. [[Abg. Zweytick: It's not true!]] And what happened now? – You yourself said yesterday – otherwise, please, explain it to us – 4,000 hectares we have to red in Austria. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – Please, then explain That's what you're You will not be able to explain this, Mr Minister, because you were swimming in the Committee on Agriculture yesterday. [[Cheerfulness of the Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Mr. Federal Minister, you are also an announcement politician elsewhere. I can remind you that you were in the Committee on Agriculture, 26th century. He said the following: You will make it clear to me that you will inform me of how many support is given to the professional representations of farmers, the Farmers' Federation, the Red Farmers' Association, the Free Farmers' Association and the Independent Farmers' Association. – To this day we have not received any information from you! That's a scandal, I'll tell you. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] I will explain briefly to you what the independent farmer's association looks like. You said in the Committee on Agriculture: He's not getting any promotions because he didn't apply. – You know that this is proven to be incorrect. They then sent a letter to the Independent Farmers' Association and said: No, no, because of the strained financial situation. Explain to us now why there is no promotion here! Isn't the Independent Farmers' Association right for you? – This is a democratic problem of the ÖVP, Federal Minister Pröll: If that doesn't suit you, then there's no promotion, then there's just no money. We would like an answer from you. We now have a transparency directive which reveals the promotions. We also need a transparency directive for the Ministry of Agriculture in Austria. We also need transparency as to how funding is granted here. That would be a crucial thing. Mr Pröll, I am already excited about your answers on this matter. We're certainly not going to let it down. I can tell you one thing: We wish you every success if you take over the party as an ÖVP-Bundesobmann or if you might change to the banking business. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] But every day you are not the Federal Minister is a good day for Austrian farmers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e16991	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17028	Mr President. Federal Minister! The amendments to the Market Regulation Act 2007 and to the Market Rules Transfer Act concern the criteria for the production organisations in the fruit and vegetable sector, the new rules on milk quotas and the grubbing-up of vines, which I consider to be generally relatively positive. You can see everything from two sides. I think that the authorisation of certain products or cultures of energy plants for granting aid and the use of decommissioning areas for the production of renewable raw materials is very useful. Austria has so far done the luxury of paying a premium for not growing on land. We have a chance to have a bio-sprit production here, which in Europe is not at all relevant to the famine in the Third World. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] For what can Europe do if white farmers are driven out in Mozambique or if other things happen in Brazil in this area? Disclosure of information on the recipients of funding – Mr Federal Minister, I have already told you in committee – is a cannibal provision. [[Call the ÖVP: Where he's right, he's right!]] Of course, we want more transparency in this area. I take you to the point that this transparent representation of the administration of the tax money is carried out by the AMA accordingly. They have said that everything that lies above zero is revealed: the amounts of support, the farms and also the farmers who receive it. I do not think that a canning determination in this area is too little, I would expect a little more. But let us take a look at what is happening in this area. On the cross-compliance provisions, I must say that, of course, I am entirely right with Mr Klement in this area, including the request he has made here. This will certainly also be a topic at the Health Check. At present, however, the Austrian areas are not eligible for aid for the cultivation of fruit and vegetable crops and potatoes. They're going to be in the area now. This is also positive for the domestic farms, and that is why I said: Each thing has two pages. It is also the same with the re-regulation of the milk quota. Of course, a pure increase in the milk quota is not beneficial for our alpine industry and for the miners – they are of course not competitive in this area; this is an insanity. But not to be forgotten is the cultural importance these farms have, the small farmers, the miners. What these contribute to the conservation and maintenance of the cultural landscape is not to be forgotten either. Of course, Mr Federal Minister, it is clear that the aid for the delivery of milk products to direct marketers is now granted as a supplier in schools. That, in turn, is of great benefit. For the approval of the grubbing-up of grape varieties and vines: Originally, much more redundancies should have been made possible. That has been reduced, and that is positive. A small wine-growing country like Austria would certainly have taken a negative development here. We stand for quality criteria, as is the case with Austrian wine. We do not need any negative examples, such as in Spain or Italy. In the future, Austria can practically define itself, where reddished and where not reddished, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17070	From the government bank Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17092	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today's amendment of the Market Regulation Act and the Market Rules Transfer Act is quite an important point for farmers in this country. It includes a broad range of what we have decided in Europe and what now needs to be enshrined in national legislation in order to take important steps in the area of fruit and vegetables, in the area of wine market regulation, in the issue of administrative simplification around cross compliance and to implement what we have jointly carried out for the benefit of farmers working in these segments. The question of how the milk site continues Austria or the question of the implementation of the milk quota increase – I can't count everything now, because there are also a lot of technical points – is answered in this novel. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, just a few of the headlines, because I have to note that some of them have also been very roughly debated, for the first time: Fruit and vegetable reform. We decided in the fruit and vegetable reform in Brussels with the major reform, which was also necessary and correct, that we can create a single farm premium. And we have gone through this – together with the industry, with farmers, with the representatives of interests – not to implement and apply this farm premium for competition by 2010. This is now realized and made in the market order. Second point: In the case of Cross Compliance – this will be a major issue of administrative simplification for farmers – with this market regulation novelle, we take a first important qualitative step with a control of the bagatell limit of 100 € and also with it not to immediately suspect minor infringements. We also send a signal in the dairy industry. Yes, we were opposed to the double-percent increase in the European milk quota – but now it is reality, we have been overcrowded! I hope, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, that democratic values, namely majority decisions, continue to apply to you. If that is not the case, we have another discussion in this House, I think. We've been overcrowded! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That's no reason to get nervous. We've been overcrowded. Germany and Austria have drawn a clear line here: No to increase the milk quota! [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Nervös must be the Farmers' Federation, not us! With Leo Steinbichler in Upper Austria!]] There is now an increase in milk quotas, and you will answer the question of whether the Austrian farmers should participate or whether we should leave the increase to the others with a clear no. I'll tell you: If we have already lost this fight against the increase and it is now coming, we will have to implement it in competition for the benefit of the Austrian farmers! This is what we are doing with this market regulation novelle of today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Fourth point: Commission proposal: OJ C 352, 30.12.1996; Once again, I have to address the liberals, Mr Klement and also Mr Haimbuchner. It is a pity that today so many young guests are here, who need to see with what superficialness the arguments are presented here. Work on the topics! Let us take the example of wine, ladies and gentlemen. The really great thing is that yesterday the Committee was in which we discussed the issues very intensively. There are only two options: You don't listen, or you didn't understand. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klement:... what you understand!]] First point: We have placed €450 million per year in the European Union in the destruction of European wines; Distillation of wines from the south. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: This has nothing to do with Austrian wine!]] [[Abg. Listen!]] We will no longer use this money for the destruction of wine in the future, but also for the application of high-quality wines in Austria. We will also be reding 200 000 hectares in Europe. It can and may be the case that we in Austria have zero hectares red. It is not an obligation – and it is repeated today – to red 4 000 acres. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: If you insist!]] This is the maximum limit: 4,000 hectares; more cannot be supported in Austria. If the farmers in Austria don't come by themselves – and we want to stop that too – nothing will be raw at all; it is voluntary. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, read the texts, deal with reality – and deal differently with the topics that do not vote as they have been presented here today! – This is reality, and you can be proud of it because it is actually a qualitative step in the right direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klement: This is an incorrect argument!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – I note that you prefer to spend money on the destruction of wine rather than on the rational design of an offensive European wine market. In this sense, it is a market regulation law that can be seen. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner:... the EU! Who led us there? The ÖVP...!]] It has also taken a very long time to produce a quality as it is on the table today. We are one of the first countries in the European Union to implement this fruit and vegetable reform, the wine market reform and the postponement of the milk quota as consistently as in the representation, and I am very glad that we have succeeded together.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17253	The next speaker was Mr Eßl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17275	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that such an hour of teaching would be a good thing for members of the liberal parliamentary club, that in the future one could also talk a little better in agriculture. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klement: Mr. Oberlehrer, we hear!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner:... read more, Mr. Eßl!]] The fact is that the Market Regulation Act provides the necessary adaptation to the present challenges. With this Market Regulation Act and the Transfer Act, simplifications are on the agenda, including in connection with the cross-compliance provisions. The Federal Minister and my previous speakers have already said that there will be a border of luggage. It is, I believe, right that one does not punish, but that if there are minor deviations from provisions with warnings, one can find the result and does not collect the amount of luggage. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: You're pretending to have a criminal order!]] The publication of information on recipients of funds from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development is hereby established. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner:...not even Mr Grillitsch!]] I think it's also important: Name and sum must be published. The service catalogue is a kann definition, but I agree that we will also publish the service catalogue accordingly. [[Calls and calls between ÖVP and FPÖ.]] For the farmers do not receive direct payments as a gift, Mr. Haimbuchner, but according to the principle of performance and consideration: Farmers provide services, and for that they receive compensation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] An important change also concerns the cattle identification regulation. It allows the use of the tissue earmark. With this white tissue earmark, apart from the current technical problems, we have a suitable instrument to combat BVD in the interests of farmers. Finally, I think we can say the following about milk: First of all, it is right that we give school milk aid. Secondly, it is right for us to make the quota increase. We would have preferred that it would not have come across Europe. But, of course, we know that the market is playing internationally, and if all the Member States around Austria actually pass on quota increases to farmers, then it is only right and cheap and right that Austrian farmers are also entrusted with this quota increase and are also carried out because otherwise it would mean an economic disadvantage, a competitive disadvantage for farmers in our country. If I am in the milk sector and have already addressed the market order, then of course this is very much related to food production. Our farmers produce food in the best quality and in sufficient quantity. The security of supply is given, farmers guarantee it for the future. However, incomes must be able to be generated and they need reasonable producer prices. The current debate on inflation and prices will be all too short for me! Although prices have risen last year, over a longer period of time, things look different. [[The speaker holds a sheet in the height on which a line chart is shown.]] I have a table here: From 1986 onwards, food prices increased by 38 percent, consumer price index increased by 57 percent and wages increased by 71 percent. Farmers' prices are about the same as in 1986 and at about the same level as in 1994! That is why I must strongly reject the price reduction debates which are currently taking place in the trade chains, in the interests of farmers and consumers in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17376	Next, Mr Wimmer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17397	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this novel to the market order is not easy to solve, of course it is a bit complicated. But essentially this proposal concerns the implementation of Community law. The Federal Minister has already mentioned it: It has taken some time; of course, it is not always easy to negotiate with our group leader Kurt Gaßner. But I think, Mr. Gaßner, you've really been through wide distances here. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] We are proud that there is a comprehensive and good proposal here today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to address a few points in the amendment because we are deciding on things that our farmers actually need urgently, for example in the fruit and vegetable sector, if we as a Member State are given more scope in relation to the recognition of producer organisations, or also in the wine sector. I also see this as an advantage, because it is not necessary to carry out redundancies. But first of all, I think it is important that we can simply have a margin at national level and make the decision ourselves. Or: In the area of school milk, it will be possible to provide additional national assistance in the future. I believe that this is a very important measure to ensure that this action is also useful for the future. Another point: This is about the change in the raw material and energy plant sector. In future, certain cultures may be excluded for control reasons. In the case of processing in its own operation, it will be possible to include additional cultures. There will be more flexibility, so to speak, and especially in the discussion on climate protection, this is a measure that we absolutely need. The last point may be as follows: It is very important for us that the disclosure of the funding data is now being implemented. This is a long-standing demand from our social democratic side. I simply think that maximum transparency is good for our support system. More transparency leads to more funding justice, and since, we must be open, there is still a lot to do. It is therefore a whole series of important measures which include this proposal. These are important measures for our farmers and for our agriculture. We will therefore vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17455	Next, Mr. Ing. School speaking. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17476	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! It is already an interesting fact that our Federal Minister Pröll, as young and strong as he is, is already the oldest minister of agriculture in the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: What does this tell us about the European Union on agricultural matters?]] – Much screaming and little truth; as usual, nothing else can be expected of the Group of the Party of European Socialists. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can tell you something here as a farmer's representative. I am really dismayed at the ease and ridiculousness of the Members of this House today on serious farming issues. In particular, Mr Haimbuchner, I would like to write to you in the main book: Take a little bit together and have respect for the farmers! [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: We already have that!]] They do something in the country, they tease, and they also make sure you get something to eat. They also secure the supply once they have been badly imposed. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner:... don't even get an answer from the Minister!]] Every time the same theater! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It would be really good if the farmers were to experience outside how the liberals are dealing with respect for people. It's outrageous! [[Call the ÖVP: Unheard!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a market regulation law today. This is what we need in Europe, because the European Union still believes that agriculture in Europe is something special and must be defended at a special level against international competition. The European Union demands a lot more from European farmers and Austria. Because Europe demands a great deal, this is also paid over farm premiums. And what we have to comply with is cross compliance, a complicated story with a lot of writing work. I am very glad that we can decide in detail today in this measure that bagatell problems can no longer be problems. An important thing! In the Austrian context, we are referring to an implementation that really gives us the opportunity to play out our strengths in many areas. A great strength that we have is the strength of our cooperatives, who have succeeded in maintaining tough European competition, especially in the dairy sector, in view of the European challenge. Today we can obtain a good share of our milk money by finishing the products and being offered abroad in the high-priced segment, so to speak on the top shelf. That's why at this point: Great respect for cooperatives. Great respect for the fact that they are fighting to keep the milk prices above. We are experiencing this in Germany. It is precisely where private-sector, capital-oriented dairy stock companies profit from the dairy market that prices are reduced for farmers. We see the problems that this poses for the future existence of businesses. The cooperatives show that things are different in Austria, and we appreciate that. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] We have a special day today. Those who have followed this in the media today have seen that oil is currently being offered for more than 120 US dollars. Oil is energy, oil is heat, and biomass is also in the lowest use heat. Biomass is in better use feed and in the best use food and food, but in the future it will be so that the energy value defines the lower value of biomass. This is an interesting matter. Large corporations speculate, speculate with food, speculate with oil, cause price fluctuations that are really dangerous to agriculture. They're making big profits, and no one's suing that. I'm accusing here that it's a shame that the OMV earned €800 million in the first quarter of the year as EBIT and we have to pay it. It is a shame that there is no discussion about it. And it is a shame that there is no discussion of speculation with food. Just what has happened in recent years is not all right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austrian agriculture has farmers who supply the country with best food. It will remain the same. [[Abg. Sound: It won't stay like that! It can't stay like this with the Gen-Mais!]] I would like to thank our Minister of Agriculture for his good influence on a proper further development in the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17596	The next speaker is Mrs Schönpass. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17617	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear youth at the gallery! As early as autumn last year, Mr Pröll, I have a request to you for the voluntary publication of EU agricultural subsidies from 1. In January 2008, the Council adopted a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member The occasion was an article in the ‘profile’, in which the top beneficiaries were published under the title ‘Fürstlich behörten’. The article has hit high waves because, on the one hand, it has been shown that large farms mainly benefit from the subsidy schemes, on the other hand, because in Austria your ministry has completely closed the agricultural compensation payments. In my request, I asked you to publish EU agricultural subsidies at the beginning of 2008. At the time, you answered that you do not want to publish for privacy reasons, and you mean that farmers do not want to put them on the stand. In addition to many other positive aspects, I am all the more pleased that the present amendment to the Market Regulation Act will also decide on the publication of the allocation of funds from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The information to be published will be: include, inter alia, the name and municipality of the recipient and the total amount of the grants. The data will be published on the homepage of the AMA and, as requested by us, already cover the financial year 2008. Mr Minister, I am pleased that we have been able to convince you that it is not a matter of shattering envy complexes, but of finally ending this mystery. For us Social Democrats, transparency in public transfers is a matter of course and need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17653	The next speaker is Mr Jakob Auer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17678	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is not for me at all and I do not intend to qualify Mr Haimbuchner's speech and contribution. That's not enough of itself. Mr Schultes has responded accordingly, I believe. I only regret being a neighbor – and we are neighbors – that in this way there is such a blush here, Mr Haimbuchner; but you will still learn it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Market regulation also means the order of the market. And how does that actually look? – For years the peasantry has been accused of producing too much, not wanted, not needed. The same journalists who have scourged us for years are now trying to signal with headlines that the farmers are guilty of the price spiral, of the whole development. Yes, some headlines even say: Can the consumer still afford the expensive food? Ladies and gentlemen, it would be interesting to look at a little – to see how the development actually is. In 1950, the normal household spent almost 27 percent of its income on food, 17 percent in 1994 and 13 percent last year. And then to blame the farmers for being guilty of the price spiral, which is particularly remarkable. Ladies and gentlemen, it is sometimes heard from Mr Haimbuchner that EU accession is to blame and, therefore, also indirectly, the failure of the Federal Minister, the Federal Farmers' Federation – he says literally – because we have been in favour of EU accession and would therefore also be excused for the EU's intention to abandon the milk quota. Mr Haimbuchner! Switzerland is not with the European Union and has already abolished the milk quota by 2009. – So much as a follow-up instruction so you can know. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Why didn't you oppose it?]] Very often, it is also claimed that the Austrian dairies would benefit too much. First of all, cooperative dairies belong to farmers, members, and no one else. And they do what is important. I would like to say the following: If you make a comparison with a German dairy in Berchtesgaden – I call it the name – which pays €4.5 million in taxes with an EGT of €4.5 million, then a dairy in Austria alone would have to pay €1.1 million in corporation tax. And yet, on average, the Austrian dairy sector pays a better milk price, has at €7 000 per employee higher wage costs than a South Tyrol dairy, and has nevertheless been able to pay on average a better price in recent years. I don't allow Austrian dairies to be put in a negative position! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have here a bill of Jakob Auer. In 1987 he sold a certain number of best quality domestic pigs. This year he received 2 610 S per piece – at the time there was the Schilling currency. In 2008 he received 1 945 p. for the same quality of mast pigs, although they already had to increase significantly in weight. I also do not allow the farmers to keep pressing the price spiral on the eye, so to speak. It is already remarkable to see how price developments would actually have been reflected as a result of product increase. This can be seen from a study by the European Union. If you're a big casher here, everyone can paint it. It's not the farmers, it's not the consumers either. However, consumers would have to ask whether it is justified to call up the best quality of nearly 3 € per kilo of pigmeg at a price of 0,80 € per litre of milk, while only silence is acceptable for a kilo of cat feed by 6,90 €. Ladies and gentlemen! So much also on the question of values, the setting of values. Who thinks that this can sustain agriculture, he's cheating!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17741	The next speaker is Mr Elmar Mayer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17766	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take three aspects out of the Market Regulation Act, which, as in part discussed, open up scope for action which, from my point of view, are interesting and worthy of discussion. The first concerns – admittedly speaking a little bit as a teacher, who was at the time of the birth of the school milk action – the school milk action that happened to us in Austria – I do not know in detail what it looks like in all the federal states, but I can speak of my federal country – has become annoyed. If you look at the promotion of school milk within the EU – the latest figures I have, unfortunately, date back to 2004 – you have, as much as I have been able to research, increased in the meantime. 287,000 tonnes of whole milk equivalents have been promoted across the EU, accounting for almost half of pure whole milk and a further 33 percent for low-fat milk, which is especially preferred by Finland and Sweden. In addition, the use of fresh cheese and cheese in France, Italy and Finland is striking, whereas in other Member States support for these product categories is scarcely available. Unfortunately, this is also true of us in Austria. Two more comparative figures in order to see what action is needed here from our point of view: Austria has claimed a total of 4 574 tonnes in milk equivalents, and a total of € 1 million in support expenditure. In Finland, of the size quite comparable, although it is significantly smaller, it is 27 042 tonnes or 4.3 million euros in subsidies. I mean, if this amendment to the Market Regulation Act, as it is set out in the explanatory notes, makes the school If milk action is facilitated, we can only support it in addition. I hope that the newly opened opportunities will actually be perceived. Now to the wine sector: Again here in Austria, that has already been said, should be – they do not, but should – up to 8 per cent of the wine-growing areas. It is important, I would like to stress once again that we can decide for ourselves in Austria where we can be roded and where we can be roded. It is also crucial that new cultivation areas are also possible and that the money, which has so far been useless, goes into the application of valuable quality wines. Short: We can still decide for ourselves the future of our wine-growing cultures and thus also the quality of wine. Finally, I would like to thank our agricultural spokesperson Kurt Gaßner for his good nerves – even tractors who rise up in front of Parliament or wherever they may be – and for his clear positioning, so that the agricultural policy – and I would like to underline this – is increasingly the first approach to sound coalition work. Kurt Gaßner is guaranteed that small farmers will not stay on the track. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our goal, ladies and gentlemen, is and remains: More justice and fairer distribution of agricultural funding. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17823	The next speaker is Mrs Heller. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17844	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will also talk about reforming the EU wine market system. Last December, agriculture ministers succeeded in reaching a political agreement on this reform. There was a need for action. The Federal Minister has already done this. €450 million has been spent on the exploitation of European wines, and this money can now flow into marketing activities for quality wines in the future. I am also a little disappointed by Mr Pirklhuber, who normally deals very closely with the materials, but also with the Members of Parliament and Haimbuchner, who have addressed the redundancie very specifically. [[Abg. Oillinger: He does too!]] They know that the draft of this wine market regulation originally contained 400 000 hectares of rubbing land in Europe, which could be negotiated down to less than half, that 4,000 hectares of them are part of Austria, and that it is not necessary for Austria to redeploy these 4,000 hectares. You also know very well that the discussions on the implementing regulations are currently taking place in the Management Committee for Wine, which are also dealing with the criteria for harvesting. Austria will have very specific derogations, which will be possible to exclude slopes and steeps; from a height of 500 meters no redundancies will have to be taken and also vineyards from a slope of 25 percent will not have to be rode. Whole areas, such as the Kremstal, the Kamptal, the Wachau and the Styria will be excluded from the Rodung. It will also be possible, above all, for environmental reasons, to exclude 1 520 hectares of vineyards from the routing. So you see, there are a lot of criteria and spaces that the national state has and that Austria knows how to use safely. They can also accept a good conscience of this wine market reform, which includes measures to strengthen the competitiveness of Austrian wine in Europe and beyond. It includes measures that will strengthen the quality production of Austrian wine, which winemakers really need. I am thinking here of promoting sales outside the EU, where there are already economic contacts in Switzerland and the USA, and there will be an improvement in these wine markets or a better opening up of these wine markets. I am thinking of investment promotions in terms of processing and marketing. That's where we have deficits, there's something to catch up with. And I am also thinking of the continuation of the conversion and restructuring programme for the vineyards. Since 2000, we have been working with this programme, and there have already been 9 700 hectares of vineyards planted in Austria according to this programme. This concerns the promotion of the terraces and the planting of high-quality grape varieties. So you see, there's so much positive inside. Mr Pirklhuber, you can really agree with a calm conscience. There's really nothing that could harm the winegrowers. The winegrowers are still interested in producing high-quality wines, and this is also in line with the nature and in the sense of consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17881	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e17902	Mr President. Federal Minister of the Republic of Austria! I have heard “our” Federal Minister a few times today. He is the Federal Minister of the Republic. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: All of us Federal Minister!]] Ladies and gentlemen! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. That may be. When I look at ‘orf.at’ at the moment, we can read again that in Austria, food prices are rising much more strongly than inflation rates, and they are rising most in European terms. I'm wondering now, pretty slowly: Where's the mistake, where's the hare in the pepper? On the one hand, farmers get nothing more or insignificant, on the other hand we have prices that people can't afford very slowly. I think that we should deal very seriously with this situation and, Mr Federal Minister, we should really think about it together, because that is an unsatisfying state. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I think this novel of the market order should be quite successful if I listen to the speeches of the opposition, because the one thing that has remained in my mind was the new career planner of the Federal Minister, Mr Haimbuchner, who is concerned about whether the Federal Minister should become a party observer or a bank director. So this has nothing to do with the market order. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: But it doesn't hurt if he's thinking!]] - Well, yes. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] A comment on transparency and disclosure. I hope that this does not lead to feelings of envy, because the farmers are opening up 80 percent of their income, and that is a good thing. From this point of view, we should really be able to achieve a more just funding scene in the future. When I looked at this and we discussed it – here promotion, here income, because performance – I thought it would also be good if the ladies and gentlemen of the House would also be mindful and reveal their income and also oppose the current balance. That would be an interesting story. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We have revealed our income! You just need to mimic it!]] Ladies and gentlemen, what we still need to talk about is – and this is also in the market order – the whole problem of energy plants. I happened to find an article in a very interesting magazine. “The People’s Minister” is called her and is published by Mr Barazon. In this there is an article that surtitles itself: The high prices allow for the definitive freeing of farmers. This is a very interesting approach that he chooses here, and, among other things, he says in this article: Bioenergy is not an agricultural product like any other. And he goes on to say in this context: The production of food is uncompetitive core competence of agriculture. I'm emphatically emphatizing that. I would also like to stress that these healthy, high-quality foods, produced by our farmers and farmers, should be there for our people and should also be promoted, but not fuels and energies. There are other sources of finance to be found. We are in the future to do this. Perhaps at the end of the day. There may still be some new market rules until 2013, but we have to deal very intensively – from now on, I would say – with the time after that. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Hopefully!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We do!]] The first point of departure will be the “Health Check”. I have heard that today, at the government meeting, the Federal Minister has presented his ideas and has already made available to the House. I believe that it will be very essential to think about how we can maintain and improve our rural farms after 2013 and the quality of life in our rural areas, where we can stay and improve in the countryside. That will be our goal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18001	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement. This is your second word message; 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18023	Mr President. Minister! The statements made by the ÖVP colleagues make it necessary to make a correction. It's really incredible what came up here. Because we do not agree with the jubilant choirs of the ÖVP and this propaganda of the ÖVP Farmers' Federation, it is said that the FPÖ delegates are not serious. That's an unbelief. There must be other opinions, and thank God there is them. That is why there is a parliament with several parties. If you don't I would like to say, then, that you are not aware of democracy, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] - That's the first point. Second point: Mr Schultes, you are absolutely right if you say it is incredible that in Austria, a group like the OMV is entering into these huge profits to be paid by the simple citizens, including the farmers who need the fuel to drive the economy. But here, please, Parliament is the wrong address. Why don't you go to your party colleague Bartenstein, who would have the opportunity to intervene here, because he's an economic minister. But it is he who also proves that the ÖVP is passing over people. Please talk to him about this point! Now on the seriousness of the ÖVP. We have today tried to show several points which are really a major problem of the future of Austrian agriculture. Firstly, the milk quota. We have a survey that already a quarter of dairy farmers are planning to stop by 2012. This is a problem for the Austrian farmers, you have not done so with a word. Secondly, We talked about the wine. You haven't cut a word that already the US wants to push in and bring in chemical wine where the barrique flavor is made with the help of the chemical laboratories. You have not lost a word about it either, but you are talking about any redundancies and you believe that this is the answer to these questions. Example of sugar: They have kept silent that LDC farmers, Lowest Developed Counties farmers, are pushing in here and that the WTO has enabled them to bring 13.5% to the EU at the expense of European farmers. You'd have to make these points, then you'd be serious. And, please, let my colleague Haimbuchner express his opinion. He has proved more serious than the entire ÖVP range.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18086	Next, Mr Zweytick. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18107	Mr President. High house! Estimated Minister of State! I am also very surprised now, Mr Klement, at the sensitivity of your side, on your part, on the freedom of the club, and also on this thinness. I could return the same accusations now, because even what has come here in the intervening calls does not serve the cause or the seriality. I think there's no reason for this, but just one answer: I would like to invite you on the subject of wine-growing policies, which are now in the market order, to a course. Let us not make wine tasting, but let us really talk about wine policy! I really like to invite you to this. I'm a practitioner, I know what I'm talking about. It's just a shame when we're polemizing. I take note of it and am also very happy that you are concerned about the Austrian wine industry. This is also a sign that you appreciate the wine culture and especially this quality. I'll count on you, I'll count on you. There will be times when we will then need this solidarity in the sense of the Austrian wine industry. But what has been successful in the last two years – as long as the debate on the market order has already taken – is much more than it was in the beginning. This is where poison teeth have been drawn that would certainly have put us in the face of massive problems in the future. That was successful. Countries have now been quoted, but especially with solidarity and cooperation with the wine-growing countries Germany and France – I would like to stress this – we have achieved a wine market reform that can make us look optimistically into the future of the Austrian wine-growing industry as well as the European wine-growing industry. For this reason, because we cannot prevent wine coming into the market from coming from the overseas countries – it is already coming in now – the future is also because we can only defend ourselves qualitatively and not quantitatively. That must be clear to us. Therefore, many awareness-raising measures on the market are necessary and also necessary. For all these measures to ensure production on the one hand, on the other, to increase awareness, which means our quality compared to the competitor, and, of course, to recultivate the vineyards, there is money for that. There is more money for this than in the past. We will also know how to use this. It is over €8.8 million by the end of the year and by 2013 it will increase annually to €13.7 million, which we did not previously have at our disposal and which we specifically use for these measures, which will safeguard and protect us, and thus also a valuable cultural heritage in Austria, which is unique. We can keep up with the quality in the Champions League, and we don't need to worry that someone needs to be red. It doesn't have to be reddish! Not even the few hectares in Vorarlberg need to be roded. I mean, nothing against Vorarlberg, but I also know the vineyards there. There's nothing to be rowed at all. What we want is simply that we are more positioning ourselves on the market, that we can be stronger against the pressure of competitors from other continents in the sense of the European wine industry. It is not all bad that comes from Spain or also from Italy, Mr President, I would also like to say that, but black sheep are nowhere to be excluded, nowhere around the world. We cooperate very strongly, and I also insist on what our minister has achieved in the past, namely a solidarity partnership at European level for a very important product, for a very important – I do not want to say food – cure. I am also concerned about food prices, as did my previous speakers. Here we simply have too high a concentration – if I can join my friend Kurt Gaßner – of trade. This is also the problem that there is too little competition here. On the other hand, it is essentially food that has to be bought daily. That's a must. Here a consumption is guaranteed. Here I don't need to do much advertising, here I need to automatically drive up with the price. That's the tragedy. This is what we need to work on – I am quite with you – and I hope that in this sense it will also be better for our Austrian agriculture, for our farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18162	The next speaker is Mr Kainz. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18183	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! I think one thing is clear and is really out of dispute here: The Austrians are proud of the high quality of the food that our home Farmers produce and also sell on the market. Many domestic customers, as well as foreign tourists, come to buy these foods because they have such a high quality. The market regulation law 2007 has also been discussed for a long time – I can remember the opening of the Wieselburger Messe last year, which also attended Mr. Sozialminister Buchinger – and the discussion has continued, and this market regulation law, which bears the handwriting of our Minister of Agriculture Pröll, is a good result for the farmers in Austria. I would like to comment on two points: firstly, on the milk quota. This was also discussed and criticised by the previous speakers. Okay, we are in a democratic voting process in Europe, but we have taken one step again so that our local farmers can gain something positive from this, namely the increase in the milk quota and the targeted promotion of school milk. This too, I think, is a reasonable and good measure to use a special support instrument here at national level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The next point I would like to address is the wine market regulation on which my previous speaker, Mr Zweytick, himself wine maker from Ratsch on the Weinstraße – I am mayor of a wine-growing community in Lower Austria, in Pfaffstätten – has already been addressed. I think that three key elements for Austrian winemaking can already be seen very positively here, namely the promotion of the marketing of wine – here Austria has real opportunities, and we also use these opportunities with the high quality we have – as well as the promotion of production, but above all also the promotion of investment in cellar technology. Especially our young wine-growers show what high quality they wait for. With this wine market regulation, they have security and, above all, opportunities for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18228	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18250	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am very pleased that the Market Regulation Act has now reached an agreement. Unfortunately, there have been some attempts to do so. This law, so important to our farmers, should be supported by all parties. For the farmers, it is about a lot of things they need every day for their work, for their economies. There have been many discussions on the subject of cross compliance for many years, because there are very many bureaucratic obstacles, and they are intimidating. I myself know cases where, after checks for bagatelles, the operating premium has been consistently reduced. I therefore welcome the regulation of aliquota distribution also of milk quotas, because it is a fair distribution. The deadline for the application is 31st. In July 2008, no milk producer is to be transferred here. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, we of the ÖVP remain: Our top goal is to produce healthy and high-quality foods. I would like to point out in particular that our farmers are not price drivers. Especially in milk production and in pigmeat, they are currently suffering from low producer prices and at the same time increasingly expensive means of production. The rise in the price of food is due to the rise in world consumption. As a result of this, there is a considerable increase in the volume of agricultural raw materials in the world. The production of biofuels represents only a minimum, small proportion. In the EU, almost 2% of the area goes to the energy sector. Austria and Europe, I believe, are well advised if they maintain this ten percent by-catch rate of ethanol, i.e. the so-called bio-sprit, and it is therefore important because we are becoming more independent and because it also allows us to create more jobs. I confirm this and I am pleased about the procedure of our Federal Minister Josef Pröll. In connection with this discussion, I was particularly surprised, of course, by the behaviour of the Greens. They talk about an exit from the crude oil as a fuel in the morning, and in the afternoon they talk to the ethanol, that is, against this renewable energy in the tank. What do you want, Mr Pirklhuber, with your policy? You disagree every day, but you should also show a little more credibility on this issue. I would like to agree with this novel. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18295	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haimbuchner. This is your second word; 2 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18316	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schultes has accused me of a lack of seriousness. Mr Schultes – he's coming right now – you have to blame your Federal Minister! If Mr Pröll in the committee promises to provide information if he promises to a Member of this House and then fails to do so, you must ask yourself who is showing a lack of seriousness here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Auer, as a neighbor, I tell you – I live in Steinhaus, he is in Fischlham; don't worry, Mr. Auer, personally you are fine – as one who has managed a direct mandate in the Hausruckviertel at the age of 27, I do not need to be instructed here by you. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] They also did not care to represent farmers on their own. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And where are your young representatives of farmers at the Austrian People's Party? They'll show me! [[Members of the ÖVP show up in the ranks behind them and cry out: Here! Here.]] If you refer to the Swiss reference, if you say that Switzerland will remove the milk quota, please explain to me why you want to defend this milk quota just with a hardness, as we cannot describe it. Explain You're me! You will also say that farmers have a particularly difficult time. Yes, that is true, Mr Auer. But who put the EU Agriculture Commissioner? Who has been the Minister of Agriculture for decades? Who sets up the entire agricultural councils? Who's running the chambers? Please explain this to me, but do not accuse me of lack of seriousness, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18376	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I would ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to take a seat, because we are going to vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Market Regulation Act 2007 and the Market Rules Transfer Act, in 550 of the Supplements. Hiezu is in favour of a separate vote by Mr Pirklhuber. I shall therefore vote on the parts concerned by this request and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. I therefore first come to a separate vote on Rule 1(4). 3 and points 5, 8 and 9 and Article 2(5), as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen of the House who have given their approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement, ladies and gentlemen, on limiting cross-compliance to a minimum. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the reference quantity allocation regulation, together with the title and receipt in 551 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[18:00:35]] 5. Point First reading: Request by Mr Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (the Rules of Procedure Act 1975) (603/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18486	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, one of the applicants receives the floor, which is in this case Mr Scheibner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18514	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the short speaking time, I would like to take a short look. We have and have had some experience, even negatively, in the course of examination committees in the National Council, especially when it comes to the use of this committee at the expense of those concerned and the parties involved. In this proposal, we have made a proposal for a reorganisation of the President's Order, so that, like in the Vienna Control Committee, it should be a former judge who is objectively directing the procedure. But that's not enough. We also want to discuss other problems in the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, there was no agreement in the Committee on Business. I just mention one example: On the one hand, the silence is criminally sanctioned, but on the other hand most of the participants in this committee, namely the Members, are protected by immunity. That this is a problem we see in the current case, in which secret details from the hearing of Natascha Kampusch have come to the public via a newspaper. This can only be done by a participant of this committee. [[Abg. Oils: Who says that?- Oh, my God!]] There are therefore a number of points to be discussed in the Committee on the Improvement of the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18548	Mr Pendl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18570	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I too would like to make a few comments on this request, also in all the short notice. Mr Scheibner, I believe that a modern, self-confident Parliament has to carry out its tasks. I also believe that it perceives this with great commitment. I believe that there are good reasons why there should be and exist in our Republic the division of powers, namely in the three areas of legislative, executive and jurisdiction. I don't think we need to discuss this, we already know it. But we're not accusing anyone without concrete knowledge. I believe that we will have a very interesting discussion in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure at the time, and I am looking forward to it. There are also many other points that have been waiting for their discussion or implementation for a very long time. I think that Mr Fichtenbauer is doing his work very well in the current committee of inquiry. We shall see what we are doing in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. It will be brought together.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18606	The next honourable Member is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18627	Mr President. High house! We are quite positive about the request made by Mr Westenthal and Mr Scheibner for the establishment of an independent chairman. [[Abg. May. Kogler: I think so!]] We too believe that this could help to ensure the necessary objectivity on the part of the Presidency and prevent the ever-increasing dependence on party-politically motivated opinions and actions by the Presidency. I would like to point out that, for example, Vice-Chancellor Molterer meant in the previous year that, after the end of the two committees of inquiry, we should discuss a reform, according to which independent judges should lead the presidency. [[Abg. Ollinger: Calculated Molterer!]] Secondly, We are for an arbitration body where there are different legal views. I refer to the 15 proposals made by the People's Party in connection with the Rules of Procedure for Investigation Committees and I believe that they are really an important step forward. The need for a comprehensive reform of the Committee of Inquiry as a control instrument is, I believe, undisputed. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The best way to get rid of it!]] Even the opposition politician Westenthaler, in an interview in the “Press”, in March 2007, said: The investigative committee as an instrument is ill. Just as the committees are now taking place, they are only “a field of exercise for party-political mud battles, which still cost a lot of tax money. ” - Quote. An independent observer can only agree with this. This criticism is also reflected in the experience that has always been gained, in the last committees of inquiry, as in the one which is now running. The completely covered and legally problematic requirements of quantities of files which cannot be handled by the Committee of Inquiry have shown that they are being carried out completely inefficiently. At present, there are nearly 500 000 pages of files requested. That's just the first part, so there's going to be a lot more. This has not yet been done in the history of parliamentarianism with us. It's politically absurd. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's not supposed to be political either!]] This is also not organizationally manageable. This is also far too expensive and is a waste of money at the taxpayer's expense – that is, because we do not need or can process most of these files. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Hundreds of thousands of file pages were only requested by the ÖVP!]] In this sense, a comprehensive reorganisation of the Rules of Procedure for Committees of Inquiry is essential. We are ready for a comprehensive discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18726	The next honourable Member is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18747	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In these series, we recall the so-called "Euroteam" investigative committee – not Eurofighter, but Euroteam. Mr President, you should know best that there are not much less, if not a lot of files have been delivered and you have actually been allowed to ask these questions. But majority decision is majority decision. Let's get to the core of the problem or to the front of the BZÖ: I think that the question is quite legitimate. She's understandable to me and I'm clear. There are five political groups, but only one can be elected chairman. It is not surprising that there is always distrust of the others and that everything possible is projected into the presidency. Let's think about it the other way around. The matter is a matter for Parliament. It does not have to be that everything is a Murks, where several political groups – at least a majority in the Committee – agree on a chairman or perhaps a chairman, just because he or she belongs to a political group. In principle, it was actually already. That's the thing we're handling. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] . As President of the Court of Auditors, you are not even so dissatisfied with me. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's something else!]] – That’s nothing else, but almost the same. See, let yourself be convinced!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18797	Mr Graf. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18818	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it is a question of whether or not we stand as parliamentarians for the division of power and for parliamentarians. Who evaluates whether it is reasonable or not? – Of course, the ÖVP, that’s quite clear. [[Cheerfulness with FPÖ and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Without a party political background, the ÖVP assesses this entirely “objective” and “objective”, we know. For this reason, nine out of 14 committees of inquiry, which took place during this legislative period, were also set up with this Rules of Procedure on the initiative of the ÖVP. Of course they were all good and right. The respective chairmen have acted well and correctly and so on. But now this House has, as it were, come to implement three committees of inquiry against the will of the EIA. [[Abg. Oils: I can't do that!]] Then, of course, everything is different, then we have to change everything. Then one even agrees with an address of the BZÖ, which in reality perhaps only a judge wanted to put into play. It is quite clear that this was your goal when the Committees of Inquiry set up at the beginning of this legislative period. You didn't do that; that didn't happen by business rules either. Now you want a list of 20 judges. I, ladies and gentlemen, want to maintain the division of violence. [[Call:At the Landtag in Vienna it's the same way]] – I say: A municipal council is a little different from the High House here or about a country day. As far as autonomy is concerned, too, it is as it is. One sitting there, there has always been a red absolute majority – and there are quite different things there. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Let's stay with you. Why always do things bad? – You were still right with “Euroteam”! – All of us, yes. [[Abg. Scheibner: Us!]] There Parliamentaryism was still in order; that is also perfectly true. For example, in the case of ‘Euroteam’, there was no requirement for a judge to hold the chair of the investigation committee. A judge was in Parliament at the time, in our group – and of course it has done so “over-partially and unpolitically”. I would like to say: A committee of inquiry, like any other committee here in the House, is a political committee. What else?- Oh, my God! What out of politics is being done here? [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] – Of course, they do not make a policy; we know that. Let us look at this motion by Mr Westenthaler. Let's see what's new in it! The order mode and decision-making are new from a list of 20 judges, plus two members, and of course the most important thing is that the chairman should open and close the meeting in the future. - After bravo! [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] In your opinion, this can only be done by a judge – and not by a Member of Parliament? To open and close a session, do you need a judge? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You show that you are not suitable!]] The chairman shall handle the Rules of Procedure, as stated in your request. - After bravo! To do this, one needs a judge “naturally, ” for who else should be able to do so?- Oh, my God! In your opinion, only one judge; possibly even an ÖVP-near judge. It's much better than any other judge? [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Further from your request: The chairman has no right to vote. – A wonderful reform of the Rules of Procedure! When do you want him to call? If the President has been appointed by decision, a meeting shall be held within 14 days; he may open and close the meeting and manage the Rules of Procedure – but has no voting right! If you put a judge in a committee with a Rules of Procedure, which still has a spark of democracy, then it will probably run out of it after two weeks, but that is probably what you want, that there are no committees of inquiry, because a judge is not at all accustomed to taking majority decisions! If a judge, as chairman of a committee of inquiry, needs a majority decision on an appointment and the like when a witness is already charged, he will not be able to do so! Don't overwhelm people, people who, after 30 years of work, suffer from a burn-out syndrome and go to early retirement! This is, as it were, the standard with the judges. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I do not want to start a judge's slander now, but I do not allow a parliamentarian abuse either. We will always see Parliament as Parliament, always as a political body – and that is good. Better it remains the way it is – than it comes as you want it to.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18946	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e18967	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kukacka was somewhat inconsistency with his zeal for this proposal, because he certainly felt that the basic condition for the list of judges, which should then be given, would be to have at least 20 years of ÖVP membership as a ‘objectivity requirement’. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:30 years!]] – 20 or 30 years, this is still completely open. The BZÖ proposal is also somewhat inconsistency, because then it would also be necessary for the Presidents of the National Council – First, Second, Third, Third President – to recruit themselves exclusively from the judiciary, because, in your opinion, only judges are obviously associated with an objective Presidency. – This proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is done mentally and in a parliamentary manner. The word “populism” has already been used in this context. I now allow myself to put a word in my mouth once: Love Service – and for the “oh so evil doing” to introduce an investigation committee! If the chairman does not come from the BZÖ, you think he can only be bad anyway. In the light of a state-supporting action, make a proposal. Everything else has already been done in a dazzling way by Mr Graf. A serious and last sentence from me: It is true that the Rules of Procedure require much improvement. Unfortunately, the applicants did not recognise these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19011	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 603/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[18:15:42]] 6. Point First reading: Request by Dr Josef Cap, Members of Parliament, concerning a Federal Act amending the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Examining Committees (Appendix to the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council) (634/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19053	We're on the 6th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant, Mr Klubobmann, has the floor first. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19082	Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I am one of those who think it is very good that we have first readings now, because we can, as it were, discuss a little bit more carefully; one should deal with the matter itself more intensively. With great interest, I have followed the debate that took place here earlier – and I believe that this is equally worthy of the discussion that is now taking place. The previous course of the work of the Committee of Inquiry, whose establishment we have decided here, confirms how I think it would be very good if there were an opening for the media, in terms of image and sound. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] There you are the right caller! I find that to be justified because I see how some of these people are being dealt with, only by those who used to criticize others because of their dealings with information. This is, of course, a matter to be critically reflected. If you do not fit by the ÖVP in the investigative committee, Mr Haidinger, as an informer, and are dealt with with with by him as if he were actually already a half defendant and therefore the offence one, two and three were assigned to him, then this is a way that generally expresses a bit of this underestimating attitude towards the task of Parliament and the investigative committees. Examples of this attitude: first a discussion on the files, then a discussion on the blackmailing of the files, then a discussion on why the files still do not come, which is what we need and therefore called for. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Then it is again argued that it is too many files or that it is too inaccurate or that Parliament needs files at all. This is not exactly a way of working on a committee – it also shows that you have the strategy of harming those who do not fit them, or of damaging the establishment of a committee of inquiry which you do not want to! [[Abg. Hornek: Do we want to stick to the truth?]] I do not think that this could in the final analysis lead to a damage to parliamentary culture, even to Parliament at all. Such a strategy would be countered if one had to take responsibility for running camera recording devices, in sound and image, just like the proposed procedure. Then everyone can take a picture of it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't you need a majority to do this?- Oh, my God!]] For an open Parliament, for a new Parliament, this would be a process which, as I believe, would better carry out our work outside and give more weight to the whole. The day will come where we will decide. We won't let the SPÖ loose until that comes. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Their “half-edged” calls say everything anyway. At least be a little more funny so I can have something to laugh about. This should also bring about something of work in the Committee of Inquiry and the work of Parliament as a whole – and not just in accordance with your momentary needs. I believe that the Committee on Inquiry should be taken seriously and should avoid any damage to the value of this committee. Therefore, one should try to work on this work together here, whether one is part of a ruling party or is in opposition. I consider this initiative to be an attempt in this direction. This is intended to document a certain degree of openness to the media. They of the ÖVP were themselves those who proposed this for the first time. I remember the famous Committee on the Interior, where you took the initiative to be transferred from there in sound and image. Why you did not want to continue, you should explain to us, because what is good for the Committee on the Interior should actually be good for the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: A committee is not public, but a committee of inquiry is publicly available from the outset!]] Yeah, but not enough. We want to make a word. No, I think it should be public – also in sound and image. You know very well that this is an initiative from us. You applied for this in the President-in-Office's office at the time. Why should we not do that in the committee of inquiry? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The ÖVP doesn't want that!]] Then there is no dispute about interpretation, where everyone goes out afterwards and says: I felt it so!, and at the end you think there were a few at different meetings. That doesn't make any sense. [[Abg. Hornek: You believe this in the ORF report anyway!]] You hear what you're talking about? I've never seen her in this regard at all. [[Cheerfulness at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] You just noticed me in the second row for the first time. I really just want to argue that we support Parliament's work here in terms of quality.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19205	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19227	Mr President. High house! Mr Cap, it would be very appropriate if we were to deal with this issue seriously. You're right, but I'd like to ask you to do that. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] If you really think your speech is serious, then we find ourselves in one point, and this point means that the Committee of Inquiry is correct and good as a parliamentary control instrument and that we all here in this House should do everything we can to ensure that we do not damage the reputation and functioning of this committee of inquiry. But there were many occasions – and most of them do not come from the ÖVP – in the two committees of inquiry in the previous year, which unfortunately this In the public view, however, there has been a great deal of damage. I think this is a shame as a parliamentarian, and I think it is a problem. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Who has the reputation...?]] Mr Graf, you are one who contributes a lot to this. You talked out here today in an unprecedented emotional way. There is nothing against emotion, but the question of the new regulation of business rules should not be discussed emotionally but objectively. If you see how you, Mr Graf, are excited out here and how you are going about the ÖVP Group, for example, I must tell you: They simply disqualify themselves as chairman of an investigative committee, in which we should all have a common goal, namely to finally find out what is wrong and to enforce improvements! Your appearance today, Mr Graf, once again – and we have already experienced it in the BAWAG Examining Committee in the previous year – has disqualified you for this task and once again shown how important it would be for the Presidency to be run by an independent, objective person... – No, not an ÖVPler. [[Abg. Oils: An ÖVPler!]] It should be handled by a judge, because this is simply the guarantee that at least the Presidency will be objective, that someone is here watching over compliance with the rules of procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Now I don't know myself anymore!]] Now to your request, which you are making here, which is now the first reading. That's not the problem. I mean, you yourself, Mr Cap, have surpassed in the SPÖ, because we have proposed: Let us continue to discuss these accusations in the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's why it should be media-public in image and sound, so that everyone can make a picture!]] Let us discuss these accusations in these committees! Then, as the two examples have shown, it would have been possible to make television recordings and recordings. [[Abg. May. Kogler: On the matter!]] We would have proposed: Let's keep talking about that there! You refused. This is now part of the Committee of Inquiry, and there is just what the Rules of Procedure provide for in the media, but it is not a picture and a sound recording. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Let's do it!]] What our topic is – and this unfortunately shows you how to deal with it: You just want to pick out something that seems opportunistic to you at this moment, which is now quickly bringing up the cameras because you see, you can perhaps put the ÖVP or individuals who are being put on the prange there in trouble. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Don't you have confidence?]] We have a lot of confidence. We have drawn up a list of 15 points in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, where we see the need for amendment. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Are you annoyed by the long trial period in court?]] Let us discuss this comprehensively and then make a reform of the Rules of Procedure and the Rules for the Committee of Inquiry, instead of now picking out the raisins and demanding one or the other! I hope that in the course of the further discussion on these Rules of Procedure, you will be so open as to discuss our proposals objectively and objectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19365	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19386	Mr President. Apart from the fact that most of the speech was given on the wrong item on the agenda, a small reference to Mr Donnerbauer: In this whole debate around the Committee on the Interior, including in the Presidency, a clubman came into the presidency – he was called "Schüssel" – and meant: Very important: Media publicity, even film recordings must be allowed – must be allowed. Why? . So that not any Members then directly inform the public with blocks or other things unilaterally. - That's it. There it was apparently good and cheap, there it fit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] I mean, this is an anachronistic process when you take it exactly. Yeah, sure. So: What's going on in the committee? – There are files from which, of course, the surveys may take place, because without files, surveys can be difficult. Of course, from... – The stupid can question without files, that's right, but that's another chapter. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You don't need any files!]] - Good. Questions are raised from these files, questions are asked which are read out. [[Abg. Hornek: Constructed is right!]] – Well, logically, one will construct questions from files, which one then asks, because in the files the questions do not usually stand inside. This is only the case with the files delivered directly by the ÖVP, where they already provide the questions inside. These are, in most cases, the files you received from the Committee of Inquiry's Cabinet, where there is no question of what to ask and what to do. But that's another chapter. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Then the journalists in the committee, who seem to write quickly, are allowed to write handwrittenly, how the questions are asked, because otherwise it is de facto impossible that they get it. But if the journalists come afterwards and say: Excuse me, could you repeat what you asked there?, and you do that, then the next step is that Mr. Klubobmann's bowl is in the presidential and says: Scandal who happened there! There are representatives who have told the journalists what they have asked... – Yes, clearly, from the secret documents. [[Abg. Hornek: You have included secret documents!]] These were the same questions that were asked there. That's absurd. If the journalists have the opportunity to record tape recordings in the committee room, you can save all of this – you can save all of that! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Patschert was the mushroom!]] – I would be careful with this wording. We will also discuss these in the presidency, because it was a point of order, which has fallen there by the Clubobmann Schüssel, who is not here now, who has claimed that information from confidential meetings has been made public by repeating it once again at the public meeting. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Confidential files!]] They simply do not say that there has not yet been any confidential agreement on the committee. Now let me explain how it should have happened that, although there was no confidential agreement, we should report something in the public session from a non-confidential agreement! [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Kukacka and Hornek.]] They claim things that are relevant to criminal law – only to make that clear once. A criminally relevant accusation has been made in the presidency you are raising on the floor of the parliamentary immunity of the clubman. But we will discuss it again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The fact is: This is simply about creating transparency, making public what is happening, and perhaps in 2008 journalists do not have to write everything in writing very quickly, but, as is normal, they may also record that perhaps a television broadcast takes place. This is embarrassing for the ÖVP in the case of investigation committees. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You're always quite... if it doesn't fit you!]] But that would be a possibility. In Germany, for example, we know this from the debate, from television. There you will probably have a problem in the public as you appear, but there is transparency there. And that would also be appropriate for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19518	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19540	Mr President. To say it in advance: We support this initiative for a simple reason: the logical consequence! Now we have public, also media-public meetings, and it is publicly required that the journalist who sits inside write them correctly and then properly reproduces them. We already know what this can mean for problem zones. So it's actually just a logical step. I'll see exactly what I'm saying: It serves a kind of suspected process culture when the TV camera watches with sound and light, how to handle it. And this is actually a story that is reasonable and should be introduced. That's actually all that's said. And the other theme – I just wanted to say, you, have done a little wrong to Mr Hornek. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr. Cap]] He is in the Committee of Inquiry and has already gained fame and honor as an intermediary. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You can't say that about your presidency!]] And with this I want to decide for myself today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19583	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19605	Yes, I have also been very surprised that Mr Graf has defended the committee presidency with such enthusiasm and such emotion. It is probably a bit of disappointment that his group has not nominated him this time, at the current committee of inquiry. I understand. It's great, if you're not a "ordinary" Member of 183 Members for a few weeks or months, you can sit a little higher in a committee, show a few people, make a little party policy. And in the end, you write a book about it, which no man reads and nobody buys, but you at least wrote it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's not true at all! Actual correction!]] For the Vita and for the CV you are the author of a book via an investigation committee. I am full of this initiative. We asked them ourselves: A hundred percent transparency and not just a little bit. Just as there is not only a little transparency and public, you have to see the cameras, of course. And that's what it's all about. It's about: Do we continue to make a camera ban or do we not make a camera ban? The camera is just like that, because it's ridiculous, Mr. Colleague. The journalists are knocking on the thighs and shaking their heads when they sit inside. And afterwards we go out of the Committee of Inquiry and tell the journalists who have already been inside – that is, those of the ORF or those of other electronic media – what has happened inside. That's unsustainable. Therefore: full transparency, public and also cameras in the investigation committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19641	Mr Graf, Mr President of the Commission, spoke on an actual correction. I would remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure: a maximum of 2 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19681	Mr President. Mr Westenthaler has said here that I am The book nobody buys and no one reads. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You already!]] I'm actually correcting: The book is sold very well, it read crazyly many people. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 20 Members!]] However. The colleague Westenthaler didn't want to buy anything, he wanted to give one of my gifts. And I didn't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19735	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Personal reply!]] Mr Westenthaler wishes a personal response. I would also like to draw your attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19770	Mr Graf has claimed that I personally – and therefore a personal response – would have hired me with him and asked me to get a book for free. - That's wrong! That's not true! I don't need this book, nor do I read it because it's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19800	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 634/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[18:32:39]] 7. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Martin Graf, ladies and gentlemen, concerning a federal law amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (the Rules of Procedure Act 1975) (610/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19842	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19872	Mr President. High house! This proposal, which has been tabled in order to make the question-hours of business regulations different, has in itself been a consensus product from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but it has not been followed any further because of the great consensus of the ÖVP – now I say: the coalition – has failed. The fact is that this text, as it has been introduced here, has found the agreement of all five parties in the pre-negotiations, because, also in the sense of the public presentation of this House, it makes sense to modify and invigorate the somewhat antique Question Time – which is why we have now tabled this in the form of a request so that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure will be convened to discuss it. I would then seek approval from the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19899	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19920	Mr President. I believe that no one in this House can seriously doubt or apologise that we have something to change in our Rules of Procedure: that we have control rights to tighten up, that we have to improve the external representation of this House, and that we also become more interesting for the electorate in our course. That would be a way of dealing with this question, which would allow the whole to be a little more lively and more interesting, to present the question and answer as an interplay between the government and Parliament. It would be reasonable to implement this proposal. There are also many other reasonable proposals on the Rules of Procedure. I do not understand why one does not implement consensus criteria that would actually benefit all of us, because the representation would become another outside, then not. That's a shame. Our group, of course, continues to support this amendment. This is a reasonable process. There was also a consensus on the whole. I do not actually understand that there is no consensus on this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19948	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. Also 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e19969	Mr President. If I have read the proposal correctly, then in principle this is the agreement that we have actually reached in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which has also been taken by the ÖVP, in order to say it quite clearly, and where, apparently, Mrs Karl has deviated from this line because of the lack of enforcement power in the club – we are now putting it that way. Interestingly, there is also no contribution from the ÖVP to this first reading. But that doesn't really surprise me now. The question is only general at Rules of Procedure negotiations, for which we sit in this committee, if, I do not know how many meetings we had; two meetings or three meetings; in hours of negotiations, we actually have a com- I have found promiss, which has been accepted by everyone, but at the next session you will come back and say: It wasn't like that. – This throws a significant light on how to deal with it. At Question Time in itself: I mean, every time we have Question Time, we have a strong need for reform. In this legislative period, I think, we have not even managed to have a question hour spent only in one hour. We already had ministers here who would have needed three hours to answer the ten or eleven questions, namely, such "stressing" questions as: What can help a woman minister to improve the situation of women in the world? – These are obviously the key issues in the debate when the ÖVP asks itself. These are things that are simply about a certain culture in this house. Question Time is ultimately an opposition instrument or an opposition instrument. However, as Question Time is currently running, it is a purely presentation instrument of the members of the government, and I do not believe that it will be particularly interesting if the people in front of the television know that the members have written half of the questions themselves. So why ask the questions even if you could ask them yourself? But that's another chapter. There's more liveliness in that. 48 hours before you have to ask a two-line question so that the cabinet can prepare for the answer. Yes, there seems to be great concerns at the ÖVP that you could ask very bad things here. In this respect, the request is also formulated in such a way that the question must now be given 24 hours before. However, the subject area was mentioned, and not the specific question. That would be much better. One last comment: We will also have a debate in the current Question Time tomorrow, because, I think, for the first time at all, a question of a political group has not been accepted. We wanted to ask the Minister of Finance for a concrete statement on the tax model of the Greens, which he called “basic naïve”. This question has not been approved. Originally, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the question of how he assesses the tax reform plans of the other parliamentary parties. This question has, of course, been accepted, because it appears to be measured with the same measure. So if the Minister of Finance critically says something about the opposition, you must not ask. This is not the subject of execution. However, if one considers that it is particularly original to ask the Minister of Finance for anything, then this question may be asked. We will also discuss this tomorrow. But it shows once again that there is a need for change here.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20027	Next, Mr Scheibner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20049	Mr President. High house! The reform is urgently needed. We all agree on this. Tomorrow, we'll have such a reading time again. Everyone is told to speak freely here from the speaker's desk, but then one is forced to read questions here. And with strict interpretation – unfortunately, I have to say – in recent times also through the Bureau, there are not even any introductory words possible. We have agreed on a reform, and thankfully it is now being brought in. I have raised this question in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. We have come to a consensus; unfortunately, there has been no overall consensus for various reasons, especially for party policy reasons. But I believe that this reform should be implemented at least in this one area. In the end, it is also about the reputation of politics, because in an initiative that is being transferred live, I think we should try to see these instruments in a modern and dynamic way, because otherwise this is not an advertising for politics, but the exact opposite. And unfortunately, tomorrow we have another hour of anti-advertising for politicians and for parliamentarianism in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20078	Mr Dr. Stumm volvely spoke on an actual correction. I draw attention to the provisions of § 58. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20102	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Brosz has just stated that the questions for tomorrow have been measured by two measures that the EIAs may submit a request that does not comply with the Rules of Procedure, but that the Greens are not allowed to do so. [[Abg. Brosz: This is not a correction! This is a valuation, but no correction!]] It is true, rather, that the President asked both groups whether they were willing to change their question. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Not quite!]] I was ready, it wasn't you. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Your question was approved!]] That's why my question comes along and not yours. - It's easy.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20163	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 610/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[18:41:04]] 8. Point First reading: Request by Members Karl Öllinger, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Security Act (599/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20203	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20230	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! With our request, we want to achieve that, in our opinion – but not only in our opinion, but also in the opinion of a court – a serious error of pension reform is corrected. What is this serious error in the increase in pensions – not pension reform – 2008? – All pensions have been raised in a certain proportion, lower pensions have been slightly stronger than higher pensions. However, a form of pensions has been forgotten, namely the very low pensions. Pensions below the compensatory allowance rate have been increased by the lowest increase rate. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore absolutely incomprehensible when a Social Minister, who obviously does not know what is being played, says last week after the judgment of an Upper Austrian national court as a labour and social court: The low pensions, which have been so low, are pensions whose spouses already have an additional income. This must be broken on the tongue: The Social Democratic Social Minister says nothing but that low pensions are primarily women's pensions, and these women have anyway a man who may come home with a higher income or a higher pension. - Sorry, that's last-class and not true. There are, of course, cases where he receives 500 to 600 € as a pensioner and also receives 500 to 600 € as a pensioner. And due to this increase in pensions, both pensions are increased by 1.7 percent each. If the pensions were 100 € higher, they would receive 21 € per person more. That is, while the pension increase is €8 or €9, if the pension was only €100 higher, the pension increase would amount to €21. This is where we are headed when a Social Democratic Social Minister is still trying to justify it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I will read to you what the Minister of Social Affairs has said. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] I'll read it to you, my dear colleague. The Upper Austrian Chamber of Workers has also said that this is not all right. However, we would wish that this would be said a little louder or that the account should be taken of what a very wise lawyer, an Upper Austrian lawyer, Dr. Winkler, had before the Upper Austrian court in representation of a person. Clearly, if I increase low pensions on average, I know that these are primarily women's pensions, they are indirect discrimination. – Prohibited under EU law! Excluding under EU law! The Upper Austrian Court says: Yes, there is hidden discrimination here. – What does the Minister of Social Affairs say? – They have an additional income anyway, he says. [[Call the SPÖ: What does he say?]] This is not about pensioners living only on this income, but they have an additional income anyway. – This is proven to be wrong and the untruth. I would also like to read to you the opinion of a married couple who have already written to the Minister for Social Affairs: Mr. Johann M. has a gross pension of €571, which was increased by €9.72 – by 1.7 percent – to €581. And Mrs. Hermine M. has a pension of €577, which was increased by €9.82 to €587. As said, if the pension were 100 € higher, the increase for both would be 21 € each. No one understands. It can't be that a social minister doesn't understand. It can't be that pensioners' associations don't understand. But obviously they're all so drilled and hardened that they say: That's right, because either it's a woman, and she's got a man who brings a little more money home, or – if it's not a pensioner, but a low-income person, regardless of gender – the person may still have an additional income somewhere. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the 2008 pension increase is not only because of this, but especially in this area, a declaration of bankruptcy of these government politicians – because they do not even understand that very low pensions should, of course, be raised above average. We want to give you the opportunity with our proposal for an initiative and hope for the agreement of the other parties, because that is not the way it can be. It would be convenient for us to say: We benefit if you do not actually favour the low pensions you say you want to favour them. As I said, we still hope for your insight.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20281	The next speaker is Mr Muchitsch. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20302	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the request of the Greens that pensions below €747 should not be increased by the adjustment factor, but different, i.e. staggered, with a fixed amount or a percentage increase, is quite justified and constitutes a way of making the increase different. However, I would like to point out that, as far as the 2008 pension increase is concerned, all the discussions and all the examples that you have brought were very likely to be considered to be social-political, with other approaches, with other considerations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] We must also remember that, in total, a financial volume has been taken into account, as it has not been, or never before, in recent years. However, I would like to point out that the Federal Government has taken action and the National Council here in Parliament has taken decisions that have taken first steps against explosion-like inflation: the brake on rental increases, the reduction in broker commissions and, last but not least, the double increase in minimum pensions. [[Abg. Oils: What does one have to do with the other?]] All these are measures that benefit our older generation. Not to be forgotten – and we also value it – that the planned preference of pension increases by two months to 1. ==References====External links== Now to the Greens' request. The goal can and should be a common one, here I am with you. I appreciate your social competence, Mr Oellinger. It must be the goal, since I am with you to achieve a fair and in total and in percentages a higher pension increase in low pensions. The paths there can be quite different, but the common goal is important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20356	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20379	Mr President. High house! Important topic: fair pensions, that's what we all want. The purchasing power of pensions should and must be preserved. – That is our goal, and we are committed to that. What was the last autumn? – The experts wanted a pension increase of 1.7 percent. Pensioners' representatives, seniors have made an alarm, have protested – with the result: the majority of pensions have been raised by a much higher percentage. The majority of pensioners have thus experienced improvements. But, my colleague, I don't want to talk nice. There is a judgment of the Landesgericht Linz. This speaks of indirect discrimination against women in the case of small- and medium-sized pensions. If that's true, then that's a baffling thing for me. – If that is true, because many experts, constitutional judges, say that this judgment will not stand in the next instance. That is why, ladies and gentlemen: If we wait, we wait for the second instance, then we have concrete foundations for new decisions! [[Abg. Oillinger: But the fact speaks for itself!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this has already been emphasised by my predecessors: The next pension increase – let's look into the future! – will not only take place in 2009, but already two months earlier. Why? In order to pay off these rapid price increases in part, pay as much as possible to help, as early as possible, those pensioners who are particularly affected by this rapid tension of the price of food, who are particularly affected by the increase in food prices, by preferring the pension increase by two months. This is a good step, part of the many measures taken by the Federal Government to pay off the price. [[Abg. Oillinger: This is not an answer to the question!]] - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20427	The next speaker is Mr Neubauer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20449	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! One could say: from one brush to the other! I have taken a closer look at the laws of the last twelve months in the social field and have found that social hardships have not really been achieved, but that the hardships and injustices have increased, and this is affecting. If one imagines that even the President of the Federal Republic refuses to sign laws when one brush goes to another and again one court – rightly, as I think, and as Mr Öllinger has already rightly stated – is finding discrimination for this House, then that is actually embarrassing. You just have to say that. In response, the Federal Minister says only: Well, these women have a man anyway, and at the same time they say he's surprised. Imagine: he's surprised! – I warned him of these legal consequences at every committee meeting, ladies and gentlemen. I told the Minister of State at the time, because of the opinions of our experts, in the various committees here in the House, that this regulation is discriminatory and uneven for pensioners before the law. He has ignored this, and that is why I am not sorry for the Minister. He should not be surprised at this judgment of the Landesgericht Linz. In connection with the Austrian Senior Ring, we have not only sued, but we have also acted. We have collected signatures from pensioners and have already made camp preparations. I can tell you that the people are so angry about this treatment on your part and are really tired of being treated in this republic again and again as bitters and alms receivers. After all, these are about 500,000 people who are really harmed by this regulation. Mrs Aubauer, you meant that the next pension increase would be preferable by two months, because due to the wave of interest some money should be returned to the pensioners. – I can tell you the following, Mrs Colleague: This is very well meant, but the opposite of “good ” is often“ well meant. ” I can tell you: If the inflation tax scheme, which currently applies, still requires pensioners to wait for up to two years to benefit from this pension scheme, and therefore, as calculated by experts for pension issues, lose approximately €360 in the year – with two years of waiting, the €720 loss for these pensioners! – and if they now get 30 € per month through this credit from the Federal Government, i.e. 60 €, this – 60 € plus and 720 € loss – is a loss of a lot of money after Adam giant. This should be said to people, ladies and gentlemen. The system just doesn't fit. If a pensioner gets an understanding that he will receive – or will not receive – much more from the next 1.1. and so much more; in any case he will get an understanding – he has no legal claim to get a notice. It is difficult to get a notification from the pension insurance institution. I talked to these people. That's where it's swung, you have to call five, six times, until you really get ahead. [[Abg. That's a fool!]] It's not stupid, it's reality. That's reality! Especially in Linz, my colleague, this is very bad. That is why we also need to find a legal system in this regard that allows people to get a message from the outset, not only over five calls. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New calls from the Abg. Shopf.]] That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, you can make yourself strong! There you can scream and chat – I would like your support, my colleague. The pensioners were asked to check out more. Among other things, you only think of the minimum pensioners, who were also asked to check out at the prescription fee cover. The pensioners were massively asked and damaged by this ach so good social government. You have to say that. Against this legal background, there has been a real rapid remedy. We therefore have a request in preparation, which I would also like to inform you. We would like to submit a request that the Federal Government should immediately and unbureaucraticly provide for compensation for all persons whose pensions are lower than the compensatory allowance rate and who are not entitled to compensation and who have therefore been unlawfully disadvantaged in the context of the 2008 pension adjustment, at the latest in the Government template on the Social Security Amendment Act. You could prove yourself here once, ladies and gentlemen, and really work positively for the elderly.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20499	Mr Neubauer, you cannot make a request during a first reading. [[Abg. Neubauer: I didn't make a request either!]] The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20531	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As early as December 2007, the increase in the pension for 2008 caused great excitement and reduction. This was due to a German Chancellor's pensioner's letter, which gave the impression that he wanted to make a pension increase for all 2.9 percent. Outcome: 21 €, i.e. 2.9 percent only for the compensation recipients; for those who are below 747 € compensation allowance and have partial pensions, only 1.7 percent. – The disappointment and frustration were great. Furthermore, you have completed a ranking by raising the pensions generally by € 21 € from € 747 to € 1 050, from € 1 050 to €1 700 by 2 percent and from €1 700 to €2 161.50 between 2 and 1.7 percent, above that by €36.75. During the time we have been responsible for government, we have increased pensions by the same percentage to half the maximum basis. The higher percentage to which the compensatory allowance rates have been increased has also been granted the sub-pensions below. That is socially justified. Within six years, we have increased the compensation allowances for individuals by €100 and those for families by €215. You should take an example of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20558	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 599/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[18:58:58]] 9. Point First reading: Request by Mr Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act with which the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG), BGBl. No. 1/1930, amended (604/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20597	We're on the 9th. Agenda item and go into the debate immediately. The applicant, Mr Klubobmann Ing, has the floor first. Westenthaler. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20622	Ladies and gentlemen! This is about the possible discussion of an independent Minister of the Interior and an independent Minister of Justice, at least as far as the Minister of Justice is concerned, nothing new. We had that already, and we drove well that such sensitive ministries were also independent. I believe that this has happened because, as is now seen in the Committee of Inquiry, there is a lot of policing. There is a great deal of abuse of power in these two Ministries. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] For example, we have an interior ministry, where a black intelligence organization operates – the BIA – which stifles people who are innocent to the train. On the other hand, we have at the Ministry of Justice a red prosecutor's office Vienna, for example, which acts at the request of a red Minister of Justice. All of this is not good for the structure of these two sensitive ministries. That is why we are in favour of putting independent ministers at the forefront of these ministries. We are not alone with this opinion either. I am very pleased that, for example, the Clubobmann of FPÖ and the Upper Austrian SPÖ-Obmann Haider have made this claim. I am very excited what the Upper Austrian Members will say about the fact that Haider also believes that these ministries, at least the Ministry of the Interior, should be independent. – A thought approach that, I think, is right.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20661	The next speaker was Mr Wittmann. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20682	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think this is a dangerous way to always say that politics is not able to dress up to the offices she has to dress up with. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But also says the Haider in Upper Austria!]] I don't think it's getting any more correct. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Good thing you say that! We'll send him the protocol!]] To say that politicians are unable to fulfil the political tasks is a very dangerous way. Then why are you representatives of a party? Maybe it would be better to get loud independents off the street. I think, ladies and gentlemen, we need to raise this self-confidence that we are making a policy that we are responsible for the policy that we are elected to do so. I do not think anything of a judge as a chairman in a committee of inquiry. Quite honestly, this is our task, we are elected to do so, we have the responsibility to bear it. This is the system of our representative democracy. Nor do I think it is such a pseudopopulist claim that one minister or another should be independent. Perhaps the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor should also be independent? Then we're all loosed from elections, and we only have experts sitting somewhere else. I think that's the completely wrong way. We have to bear the responsibility, we make ourselves available to that, so we are professional politicians. We are all well trained, there are also judges in our ranks, lawyers who are able to conduct committees. There are also experts who are dedicated to certain topics, which are also able to conduct ministries. You should finally stop making yourself bad in the public. We have the responsibility, we are elected, and we can also exercise these positions.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20730	Mr Sonnberger spoke as the next speaker. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20754	Madam President. High house! The BZÖ intends to have Party-independent Justice Ministers or Interior Ministers. – Mr. Westenthaler, instead of Dr. Krüger and Dr. Böhmdorfer, you could have been able to appoint – you have had it in your hand – a party-independent minister at the time. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] You did not think so at the time, because you also felt that you wanted to take on political responsibility. One did not do it for a very long time – he was in office for only a few weeks; he failed in the “Jaguar” – but the other was in office for some time, and I believe that he finally also performed his office very passively. So I don't understand your current position. Now that you're in opposition, you say that just doesn't fit you. I don't think we're going to have constitutional congratulations that you're trying to get here. The respective government parties elected are to decide together which persons they wish to entrust with which offices. I can certainly join Mr Wittmann here, who said that it is not partyless and party-bound. That's a wrong assessment, and actually the practice you used to do when you were in charge of this idea. [[Abg. Oillinger: Well, their own practice speaks for it again!]] By the way, an independent minister of justice does not have easy to carry out his legislative projects in the government, and that can mean a standstill – but it does not have to. This request by the BZÖ is, if you look at it more closely, quite easily transparent. What do you want? Apparently one wants to adapt the very successful Minister of the Interior Platter. The BZÖ refers, in fact, to the justification of the request for the appearance of events and allegations relating to the Ministry of the Interior; to allegations which, by the way, dissolve in the Committee on the Interior to the fullest extent in the hot air. Platter leads this place with high responsibility and very successful in recent years. I am thinking, for example, of the foreign law package – as you have helped, of the introduction of the asylum court, and of much more. [[towards BZÖ]] Already long before the sad case in Amstetten, Platter has presented an extensive package, starting with the sexual offender file, intensification of the criminal framework, extension of the time limits and the like. I think this attack of yours is going to go empty. We can live by the fact that governments will continue to choose the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice themselves, each with very excellent personalities.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20797	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Steinhauser. Text time limit, voluntary, of course, 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20819	Ladies and gentlemen! The problem has been correctly recognized, and if my predecessor assumes that the Committee of Inquiry has not resolved the allegations, that simply does not correspond to the truth. It is documented that the most sensitive information on the Bawag findings is found in the “Kronen Zeitung” in the “News” within one or two days. It is simply not true that these accusations have been rejected. It is still the question of where the information came from, and it is still clear that considering the knowledge gaps of the information subjects, it is obvious that this comes from the environment of the ministries, namely from the ministerial cabinets. In this respect, Mr Westenthaler's analysis is still correct. After the abuse of power in the Ministry of Justice by an orange minister and the abuse of power in the Ministry of the Interior by a black minister, we must think very well about what we can do. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ex-orange!]] Your proposal to have another judge take over the Committee of Inquiry's Presidency also shows that we will eventually be landing in non-party policy. I understand, after seven years of black and blue/orange, the longing for party freedom is very great, but that will not be the realistic solution. We must therefore think about what we can change structurally so that the abuses that are rightly criticised if the proposal is also missolved. I can now talk about the Ministry of Justice: Let us talk about how we deal with the law against the prosecutors! This is exactly one of the fundamental evils: that there is a direct intervention on the prosecutors and that the prosecutors have a reporting obligation back to the ministers. At least in the Ministry of Justice, the information is theoretically collected, and we may then be played to the media – and we will clarify this in the Ministry of Justice. Other countries have quite different constellations. In Italy, the prosecutors have determined, independently, against Berlusconi. This would be so inconceivable in Austria because politics would cover itself with the necessary information of the investigators and thus give itself a procedural advantage. Structurally speaking, then, the right to order in the field of justice is to break down to the prosecutors, so that all these informal loyaltys that exist would also be put off. A prosecutor who wants to make a career knows who he must be loyal to in case of doubt – and that is the ministry. That is why we are not passing this question. Unfortunately, the ÖVP is still opposed, although it is European standard to resolve the law against the prosecutors. In this sense, one should transfer this to a state attorney. This could be used to solve a structural problem. We do not need a party-free minister in politics. The control is supposed to be with Parliament. Parties are elected, so politicians of parties can also take over ministerial functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20855	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Aspöck. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20877	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals see this proposal as one of the many populist rapid shots. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you think Mr. Strache?]] And such quick shots often have in the background that too little thought has been given to what is actually required here. And there, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler now in between, however he pleases, there was no thought, ladies and gentlemen. Then: If I analyze this precisely, from our constitution, from the reality of the constitution, then the one attack can be made on the constitutional reality in Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: fast shots!]] Because – quite simply, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler – parties are elected at the election. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Mayerhofer.]] These elections decide that any coalition will come about, and then these parties will send ministers and ministers to the government. And the voters – Mr. Ing. Westenthaler, you have to see it legally – can decide after the legislative period whether this minister was good, then he will probably elect his party again, or was bad. What do you want to do if I further develop this, Mr President: Then we have the oligarchy! It's best that you pragmatize this Minister of the Interior and that Minister of Justice at a lifetime. – So much about this idea and the backgrounds that were obviously not thought through.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20959	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 604/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[19:11:58]] 10. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the Fees Act 1957 (625/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e20999	We're on the 10th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steinhauser. I'll give it to him with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21026	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a request for compensation for rental contracts. We have not held a debate here in the House for too long ago on the explosion of housing costs in the last six years by 27 percent. The remuneration of the rental contracts is a small part, but it is also a cost charge for tenants. You know that the contract fee is usually applied to the tenants and they are taxed by it. If you consider that this fee is not against the State's performance, you have to ask yourself the question of why you are entitled to charge here if there is no consideration as equivalent. An example: If we assume that we have a gross monthly rent of €800 – everyone who knows the current housing costs knows, that's not an unrealistic assumption – then the fee would be € 288. If you now consider how many leases are concluded temporarily, how often do you change apartments today, you can imagine how often someone has to pay for rental contracts. If one also considers that the reason for a lease agreement not only applies to the contract fees, but deposit and broker commissions, then we know that this fee is simply an additional obstacle that belongs to elimination. However, this request is also a reminder of the coalition, because my knowledge is exactly the abolition of the remuneration in the Coalition Convention, now over a year and a half. I do not know if work has been carried out in this area. I'm just asking what you're waiting for. A legistic masterpiece is not necessary for this. A few strokes could eliminate the fee. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: The Minister of Finance!]] – Yes, the Minister of Finance is supposed to take this as a reminder, and the fee is to be abolished. The tenants will, as I believe, thank Parliament. This is about a loss of income of around €50 million. I think in the sense of the tenants, this is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21063	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. You've been talking for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21084	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to give my predecessor the right to waive the remuneration of the rental contracts. This is also a long-standing demand from us. We have already put this into applications here, and the government will implement it. If you have said that housing costs have increased by 25 percent in recent years, that is true. In particular, there has been a disparity between housing costs and incomes. And, of course, with the increase in housing costs, the fees have also increased accordingly, because they are measured at the rent. If you look at the three areas you mentioned, with the deposits and with the broker fees, this can result in a rent of 800 € already starting costs of over 7 000 €. This is, of course, enormous and a very high access price, which is charged for its own four walls. This is contained in the Government Convention, and the government will implement it in the course of the tax reform. I think that this is an important first step in ensuring sustainable housing for tenants in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21114	The next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21136	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Steinhauser, of course we are also in favour of abolishing the rental contract fee, otherwise the negotiators would not have included it in the government programme. But it is certainly also known to you that the Tax Reform Commission is currently meeting that we have had a lot of requests in recent times, which have dealt with changes in legislation in the tax field, in the income tax field. We still have a first reading on a subject relating to the Income Tax Act today. So we have had a large number of opposition requests in recent months also in the Financial Committee, and it is always the same reason. We will, of course, abolish this rental contract fee, otherwise we would not have included this in the government programme, it is only about making this tax reform a total package and, of course, we would also like to abolish the tax reform in the course of the tax reform, just as we did the last time. It would not be wise to remove a small area now, to vote on the rental contract fee, but we want to do so in the course of the tax reform. It is clear, of course, that it hurts young people when they move more often in their starting phase and then have to pay a rental contract fee several times. We don't want to. It will therefore be abolished, but in the course of a major tax reform that we will make. It is currently being discussed. I would say, let us work on the Commission, and you will see that we will keep our word as we have always kept our word.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21172	The next speaker was Mr Vock. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21194	Ladies and gentlemen! Even if this is only my second day in the National Council today, I think I have a lot ahead of you in this area, since I am confronted with this matter every day. Since I am a landlord and conclude great contracts every day, I see how ridiculous this bagatell tax is in practice. I can only tell you that in 2006, for example, 87 contracts with a total of €2 160, i.e. €24.80 per contract, or 2007, 95 contracts with €2 010, which are €21.16 per contract. There you can see how ridiculous these bagatell amounts are. Of course, one has made it easy in the course of the reform, and one can now make it easy and say that the tenant has to pay it anyway and sometime in the case of a tax reform this is already fixed. I mean, the sooner we do this, the sooner we save ourselves enormous costs in the administrative field. These €20, which on the one hand cause administrative costs for the entrepreneur, on the other hand, must also be taken over and controlled in the Financial Office for Fees, are in no relation to the expenditure on bureaucracy and the work facing it. In addition, this means a permanent control of private contracts by the State, which has already improved. I can remind you that earlier we had the problem that on the one hand we had a so-called arch tax, i.e., the more the contract was established, the more expensive the Treaty became. That was done away with thanks to God, but with it the small print was invented, which also led to the disadvantage of many. On the other hand, of course, a copy of each contract has been filed in the Financial Office for Fees. We liberties welcome any initiative that is in favour of the abolition of these taxes, which I say, not only in terms of rental contracts, but also in terms of all taxes on luggage. I have now taken this from the economy, where I mean, it is not useful if I say now, only the tenants, but this applies especially to the smaller contracts. We have the problem that the bagatell limit is 150 €, and at 150 € each contract is to be paid from 5 €. It's just funny that you already have to pay €5 a month. That's why I can only appeal: Let us constantly check all taxes and fees for their feasibility! And if the bureaucratic effort exceeds the possible revenue, then one should have the courage to abolish it immediately and not in two or three years.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21236	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 625/A to the Financial Committee. [[19:21:17]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point First reading: Request of MEPs Leopold Mayerhofer, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on the Service Law of Officials (Bederal Service Law 1979 – BDG 1979), BGBl. No. 333/1979, amended (635/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21275	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The word will first be given to the applicant. [[Abg. Pendl: Something's wrong!]] Wrong! Wait a minute! I was too quick to see what happens to me more often. I apologize. We're on the 11th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I call Mr Mayerhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21307	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This morning, we have already dealt with time-limits for eradication to be enough. My request is about the time-limits in the Civil Service Service Law, in particular with regard to disciplinary penalties. In the present case, we have to deal with the particular situation that there is no standardisation in this area of punishment. Here I have once brought a special example of an executive who paid €1 100 in disciplinary punishment for having put on the wrong jacket. This punishment, I say, is again reflected in a disciplinary act, and this for decades, and can harm an official, of course also any executive official, judicial officials, later, when he is looking for participation in a management course, in a professional course or even for a transfer to another department, even though he may be impeccable for decades Service has been provided. It's a shame that my executive officers Norbert Kapeller and Fazekas aren't here; only colleague Pendl is here. I am convinced that these Members will be particularly involved in the Committee and will then join my request to eliminate this injustice. On the one hand, we have time limits for eradication and, on the other hand, a regulation and a provision in this country, but not in this case. Here you could help to increase satisfaction in the field of officials, in particular executive officials and judicial guards. With regard to the EURO, we need great satisfaction. More Satisfied officials can also do more, and this is more than necessary with regard to the EURO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21343	The next speaker was Mr Pendl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21365	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In terms of content, I say right now, that's right. I think we have to fix this on the next occasion. Only two, three comments of good order. This is not just a problem of executives, because we only have a right of discipline, which applies to all, that is not a question at all. However, I would like to point out that we have always followed a principle in the Second Republic, which is that of the social partners. The service providers together with the service representatives also have a large package, a so-called BDG-Novelle, in preparation this year. We're going to see that we're going to deal with this question in this. I would just like to say that this is not the responsibility of the Committee on the Interior, but we have always dealt with it in the Constitutional Committee. But what it's all about, we can all, I mean, just see that we fix it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21395	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 635/A to the Committee on Internal Affairs. [[19:25:43]] 12. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament concerning a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act and adopting a Federal Law on the Repair and Care of Jewish Graveyards (639/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21434	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, the applicant, Mr Zinggl, receives the floor with 4 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of the President) Are you not?]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21474	Madam President. It is a law on the maintenance of Jewish cemeteries. Ladies and gentlemen! Jewish religion commands the descendants of the Jewish community to strive for the cemeteries and tombs to take care of them. And they'd like to do that too. The problem, however, is, we know, there are hardly any Jewish communities that are marginalized. There were 220,000 Jews in Austria before the war, 1,800 after the war. You can do that, but if people don't, then it's impossible. I assume that we are all ethically convinced that we are more or less assuming this heritage that we must accept this commitment. There is also the so-called Washington Agreement, which has led Austria since 2001 to take over precisely these things and to restore and preserve the Jewish tombs, tombs, tombs, and to restore and preserve them. Nevertheless, there are 18 cemeteries in Austria – and this is a third – that are unscathed, which exist in a completely neglected state. We know that two thirds of mayors are well cared for, as you can already say it is exemplary. But that can't be a goodwill story. It cannot be reserved for individual mayors and municipalities to act and react in this case. There needs a law, it also needs a constitutional law, because it has to do with the countries, and it needs a law that operates as with the victims of war. In other words, there is a law, a constitutional law for war-offering graves, but we are not able to decide a similar law for the Jewish victims. My colleague, Mr President, has now tabled this request, and she has also tried to deal with the other parties within the meaning of a joint request here, a letter has been sent to all parties but unfortunately with little success. The liberals have, anyway, immediately rejected, the BZÖ has responded positively, supportively, the ÖVP has asked what the whole costs, so rather a embarrassing answer, and the SPÖ response is at all characteristic, the SPÖ says there will be a government template sometime and then we are cordially invited to go there. [[Abg. Brosz: She always does that, it's meaty what you say!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is embarrassing and does not make a good impression in the international public if, for example, the Währinger Graveyard is under every criticism and if even the U.S. ambassadors have to go there and weeds have to go. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we should work from the federal side for these Jewish cemeteries, and we should discuss this bill together again. Perhaps one can change one or the other and finally, like the war-off laws without disputes of competence, accept a request that is useful at the end of our reputation, I think. We just have this commitment. I hope you think about it and go there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21511	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21532	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is no question to us that this is an obligation of Austria because of the already mentioned Washington Agreement on Restitution, an agreement between the Federal Government and the Government of the United States. It is not only for us, of course, that I would like to stress, a international obligation, but of course also a moral obligation. I admit that it is necessary to act soon. As Döblinger, I know the Währinger cemetery. By the way, I would like to point out that the municipality of Vienna has provided €120 000 for the desired work. Vienna is itself Aware of the problem, it also makes proposals and is also willing to take money for it. I know that a very high degree of erosion is already there that the restoration will cost money. I am therefore very glad that the President of the National Council, together with former head of state Klasnic, has said that the preliminary project for the Währinger Graveyard is financed by the Future Fund and the National Fund. This is an important first step. But, of course, not only can it be a single measure and not just a goodwill action by individual communities, but there will certainly have to be a general rule. And I am convinced that there will be such a thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21571	The next item is the speech by Mrs Dr. Brinek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21593	Madam President. High house! The Washington Agreement has already been quoted, and it has also been referred to Jewish tradition, religion and history. For each of us, it is clear that a cemetery is the place where the community, not only the religious community, but also the settlement, finds itself in the care and which – in this case Jewish tradition – is dedicated, a place where memory and memory should not be paralysed and not stop. This is a matter which is clearly associated with the communities in the Austrian Constitution. The Washington Agreement does not provide for any special arrangements. The Jewish tomb is in this sense untouchable and should therefore not have a special status, but there are very precise rules from the sides of religion, such as the tomb care, as the cemetery care should look like. There is therefore no plausible reason for me, for my group, to avoid it and to provide for a different distribution of competence. The grave care, which is associated with a lively care, with a visit, with an embedding into the life of the community, is expressed in the fact that the community, the community, takes on this responsibility. And in two thirds of the cases, as has already been said, it is so. I can correct Mrs Hlavac a little: Unfortunately, the city of Vienna is getting rid of this commitment in many ways. So far, only 4 million schillings have been sent annually to the IKG for the preservation of Jewish cemeteries. The entire design for all cemeteries now takes place in order to say what performance the community is doing is a little bit overlaid and too little specific. I believe that the current estimates for the renovations must be taken seriously and that a priority catalogue must be drawn up by the municipalities, where the following questions are to be resolved: Where's man's distress? Where is the most threatening decay? Where must a calculation of financial needs be started? Where does the procedure need to be clarified? Where should damage be countered by a reasonable regime, taking into account the obligation, including the cultural-religious obligation? I know that my group in Vienna has called on the municipality to pay, to pay, to take over the costs in contributions and applications and that the municipality of Vienna has not clearly given its views on this. I recall that the largest part of Vienna concerns that the municipality of Vienna has to fulfil its obligation here. I assume that the current request will not solve this problem, but I believe that the communities must act here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21638	The next item is the speech by Mr Neubauer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21659	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Zinggl, allow me to comment on two comments made by you in the context of your contribution to the debate. They meant, among other things, that it could not be a matter for mayors to engage in arbitrarily with tombs. I reject this – at least for our mayors! It can't be that you only put the mayors on a flat-rate basis because the competence lies with the communities, here is a case of arbitrariness. I reject this and reject this assumption anyway! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to the second statement you made. You said that you spoke to other political groups and that FPÖ had already rejected it. That's what I'm going to reject! They should be aware that there have been numerous initiatives on the part of the liberals in Vienna's Landtag, specifically to the Währinger cemetery, which, because of the political situation in the Landtag, did not find a majority. Do not assume, therefore, that they would have been opposed to this issue from the outset! Now to the request itself. They refer here to the Washington Agreement, an agreement containing the obligation to preserve and restore the cemeteries. In this context, I should like to point out that – and that has already been said by my previous speakers – under Article 118 of the Federal Constitutional Act the competence lies with the municipalities and the implementation should also be carried out through the respective associated bodies. In this request, I have read the request several times, I wonder what benefits you expect from this proposal as a whole. I couldn't see that. It has happened to me rather than to build a double-track competence in Austria with regard to the design and preservation of the cemeteries, namely a competence of the communities as well as a competence of the federal government. I think that's less. [[Abg. Dr. Zinggl: A Constitutional Law!]] There are passages – as I have read in § 5 – of your proposal already regulated by legal provisions. Thus, infringements have already been punished. For me, it is pressing on the question of how you want to deal with the resting places of other religious communities if you want to create here a lesson “Jewish cemetery Währing”. I do not know how you want to find a solution here with other religious communities that are numerously represented in Austria. In our opinion, this would be a smooth disparity before the law, and of course we cannot agree to that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We believe that due to the federal constitution, the communities have the appropriate competence. We also believe that all the dead deserve honor and respect alike. I would often wish with the Greens that they would really recognize all the dead.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21708	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21729	Mr Neubauer, of course there have already been initiatives for other cemeteries. I am thinking, for example, of the already mentioned war graves. We from the BZÖ welcome the initiative of the President-in-Office Glawischnig. We have also responded promptly to her letter, because some cemeteries are in a really pitiful state and cannot be taken away from this situation. Washington Agreement – signed in the government of Schüssel/Riess-Passer in 2001. Paragraph 8 clearly provides support for the preservation of Jewish cemeteries. For us this is a commitment that we stand for, and that is why we have responded positively to the President's initiative, especially since we know that the Israeli cultural community is humane and financially overwhelmed with this situation. Since the various communities in Austria simply do not have the necessary personnel equipment, as we heard from our colleague Zinggl earlier, it is an obligation to look at it more precisely. The former resistance of some communities, such as the municipality of Vienna, is something that we do not like very much. In this context, the Währinger cemetery has already been mentioned. Of course, we ask the question whether the door should now fall into the house, so to speak, and whether it should carry out a shift of competence between the federal government and countries. We believe that we should try again to renegotiate this in the course of the financial balance between the countries and communities. If it still doesn't work – that's not messed up by us – then you can still consider whether you're doing this on a federal legal level. But we are already in favour of the restoration being carried out according to the requirements of the Jewish faith communities, with the involvement of the respective cultural community. That is why we are also in favour of considering such a change. It would be nice if there were a five-party request. However, we would like to make a critical comment on one point, which concerns the issue of grave damage. We know that Jewish tombs have just been disgraced lately. We hate this, and that must be punished. But the level of punishment should be equal to that of any damage to the grave. A grave damage is something loathsome, and there one should be in the case of a criminal measure, do not differentiate due to the confession or the origin of the dead, but provide for the same level for all grave damages. You can increase the level of punishment, you can discuss it, but it must be the same for everyone. Tomb damage is something that belongs to punishment.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21778	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 639/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[19:41:59]] 13. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on the Return of Art Items from the Austrian Federal Museums and Collections and the Law of the 1. On 1 August 1895, the judicial procedure was amended in civil disputes (643/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21817	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First, the applicant, Mr Zinggl, receives the floor. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21844	Madam President. This is about the Restitution Act. Since 1998 there has been a half-functioning refund law. 60 years after the National Socialist Horror began, the Republic finally became aware that the museums returned their art treasures, which they did not belong to, to the original owners whom they had been deprived of in National Socialism. Now, ten years later, i.e. 2008, we find very clear gaps in this law, and we hope that we can conclude it together. For example, if art items were withdrawn from Germany before 1938 and then sold to or also donated to Austrian museums, we believe that this is also refund cases. But it is also about other things, such as collection items that have nothing to do with art, such as mineral collections or toy cars. That's exactly the same thing. That's where we need to consider: Why does the law apply only to graphics, sculptures, art? In our opinion, it must go far beyond that. And: There are predominances such as at the Leopold Collection. I'm sure you've all been following this. The Leopold Collection is not a Federal Museum, but it is de facto a Federal Museum because it acts like a Federal Museum. 160 million € has been purchased by the Republic of Austria for the collection stock and has been transferred to the Foundation. Austria has built a building in the MuseumsQuartier for the Leopold Collection. 50 percent of the board members are delegates of the Republic from the ministries and the chairman is also a delegate from the Ministry. Austria is the last beneficiary of the Foundation and the Leopold Collection or the Foundation is subject to the audit of the Court of Auditors. So if that's not a covert, if there's not a private foundation pretended to be where a federal museum is actually acting more or less, then I don't know. In any case, the State bears the full responsibility here. If his money buys stolen works of art, he must, if he already does not know it or if he pretends to have not known it, at least at the moment when this becomes clear, return it and cannot hide there. It is about how the Republic deals with the injustice of the past. There you cannot act with “if, then,...” and “we still have...” and point to the Constitution and private law. That's not how it is! If, at least as a collective, we want to reverse part of this injustice – a very small part anyway – then we cannot act like that. We can't work with bypasses. And, of course, it is also a circumvention when a work of art is refunded, but at the same time an export ban is imposed, so that the heirs, the owners of the property, can't even pay the refunded, for example to London or wherever they go, and if there is still a huge amount of storage charges, the heirs have to give up on the works of art and sell the art back cheaply to the museum. These loopholes, these bypasses we have discovered and we hope to close the gaps together. Yes, I hope you will agree to this initiative or we will all work together on a government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21896	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21917	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Zinggl, in 1998, an important step was taken in the reprocessing of Austrian history, and with the votes of all parliamentary groups, the current Restitution Act was adopted to return art items from the Austrian Federal Museums and Collections, which, in the course of or in the wake of the Nazi government, came into the property of the federal government, to the original owners or to their legal successors. In order to be able to fulfil this legal mandate, a Commission on Provenance Research has been set up, which has done a great deal in recent years – and I would like to stress this point already. Their task is to systematically explore the stocks of the Federal Museums. You can read this in the annual reports to the National Council, which can then be debated in the Cultural Committee. It is not a question, the restitution is a historical duty. That is why, after ten years, it is a good time to take stock and consider whether the existing refund law can be further improved. In March of this year, Federal Minister Schmied, together with the Chairman of the Clemens Jabloner Restitution Council, presented measures to improve the restitution of the federal government, which will also include a revision of the existing Restitution Act. One important concern for me in this context is also the acceleration of the duration of the return procedures that this novelle should lead to. A draft for the novelle will be discussed shortly. I very much hope that this will then be accepted again by all the parties. Let me now say something about the current debate on the Leopold Museum, which your request, Mr Zinggl, is aimed at. First of all – and that is urgent for me – is clarity about the origin of the works of art of the Leopold Foundation. The accusations in the room must be resolved. Federal Minister Schmied has taken the necessary steps to have the Foundation's holdings examined by two independent researchers paid by the Federal Government. The agreement now reached with the Leopold Foundation on an independent institution for further research into the provenance of the art objects is an important step in the interest of the Foundation and also of the Republic and also of the descendants or potential owners. Whether and in what form the Leopold Foundation can actually be included in the Restitution Act is a complex legal question. I am not entirely convinced, personally, that the path proposed by Mr Zinggl in his request would be actually acceptable and would have been in existence. The constitutional issues which are addressed here must be carefully and carefully examined, and for this reason, Minister Schmied has set up an interministerial working group. I believe that this is a very important point, because it really needs to be carefully examined how we can proceed here so that a future law can also exist. The working group is responsible for examining whether and what possibilities exist for a legal regulation of the restitution matters of the Leopold Foundation, and these results are waiting to find a solution that is permanent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21962	The next speaker is Mr Morak. Also 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e21984	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, everything has already been said. Let me just add a few sentences. Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for I believe that the status of the negotiations has been reflected relatively comprehensively here. Let me say that the Republic is, I believe, quite aware of its responsibility towards its past. Of course, this awareness-raising process has become more intense over time. In recent years, especially in the last ten years, I would say, something has happened here since 1995 among different governments. It was in 1995 when we set up the National Fund, a red and black government at work. All the laws you have addressed have been decided in the time of a black and blue coalition, and now we are in the process of taking the next step. Negotiations in the Causa Leopold are under way. With an interministerial commission, we are in the process of finding a common way between the Ministry of Finance and the Federal Ministry of Education and Culture and reaching an agreement. The words that Leopold has made lately are hopeful. But we also say, of course, that is not the case, Mr Zinggl, as you have said, a foundation is a foundation, and of course this is a difficult one. legal problem. In this respect, the Federal Minister said: Yes, there is a moral responsibility. On the other hand, there is also a complex legal problem. And the Federal Minister – and we are grateful for that – introduced the word “fact-based” into the cultural discussion. In this sense, we are on a good footing, and we are also on a good path as far as the Commission is concerned, which the Leopold Museum is about to examine in terms of provenance. We will wait for the results and find ourselves here again to discuss them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e22029	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e22050	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party will not agree to this law of expropriation. The impression, which is sometimes expressed that nothing or almost nothing had been done in the area of restitution so far, is objectively wrong. Rather, it is true that in the past, and already since 1945, a great deal has been done to compensate the victims of those displaced by the National Socialists. This can easily be demonstrated by facts. There was the National Fund of the Republic of Austria in 1995. In the In the meantime, 30 000 applicants have been notified, and this fund is donated with € 150 million. In 2001, an amount of US$150 million was decided to be paid finally for the loss of assets of NS victims. In addition, there was the General Compensation Fund, which is paid € 210 million, and there was the so-called Natural Restitution. This was the return of public assets by the federal states, but also by the federal government. In 2000, the so-called Reconciliation Fund, a fund fed by the Austrian economy, was set up. These funds account for approximately €350 million, and these funds have benefited former forced workers. Already immediately after the end of the war, in 1945, numerous laws were passed on the return of property and property. Thus, a total of 13,500 objects were returned between 1945 and 1948 – which has so far been completely lost in the discussion. There were two art recovery laws in 1969 and 1985. And in 1998 – already mentioned – the Austrian National Council adopted a law on Art Restitution, and a separate Commission for Provenance Research has been set up in the Federal Ministry of Art, Education and Culture. Let me also point out that in this discussion we have also come to talk about the Leopold Collection, that we Freemans are confessing to the European tradition of law. Whoever has acquired something good faith or has had it lawfully in his possession for 30 years shall not be expropriated. The U.S. has a slightly different tradition, we know that. But we do not want to import US-American judicial imperialism into Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e22091	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 643/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[19:56:55]] 14. Point First reading: Request by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on the Taxation of the Income of Natural Persons (Income Tax Act 1988 – EStG 1988), StF: BGBl. No. 400/1988, as last amended by BGBl. No. 44/2008, amended (683/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e22132	We're going to the 14th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, the applicant, Mr Klubobmann Strache, will be given the floor for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e22159	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, much time is no longer God’s, but I think it would be necessary to make some improvements in the field of single-earner deposits. I believe that, in principle, the staggering of children in this area is the right way. That's our approach. In this way we also want to ensure that family policy continues the way in the right direction, namely toward family tax division. I'm saying that quite openly. This is certainly the right way, because if someone today has many children – and children are of course also a gift for society – then he should also be supported and he should also be relieved of tax policy. That's our approach. Not wrongly, newspapers have also reported that these days in our society we can say quite: Those who have children often pay for it. And we have to make changes here, from childless to family, say: to families rich in children, because: When you have children, you also do something for our society. One takes care of the children, pulls them up, and this also entails great costs, but fortunately there are then sometime again taxpayers for our society. And we want to know that. That is why, I believe, it is also necessary to implement some further improvements in these areas, which we have formulated in this proposal, which clearly indicates that there should also be an increase in the amount of earnings in this area, so that the partners who are at home with the child and who want to earn it will also be able to do so. This is what we have called for, and the rest will be dealt with in greater detail in the Committee. That is why I am saving myself to explain this, because today also time is not enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e22193	The next item is the speech by Mrs Maij-Weggen. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e22214	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Strache, someone who has no children also does something for society! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the agenda today, the request for the adjustment of the amounts of redundancies is for: Alone earners and single-parents according to § 33 EStG as support for families. They argue in this request with the inflation-related price increase in recent years and believe that the adjustment should be made with an increase of around 11 percent. I can follow your reasoning, but nevertheless note that this would be an advance to the forthcoming tax reform. And if that's wise, be there. Cut off a piece of the cake, if it's still in the oven, maybe it's a little too early. The signal effect for family promotion with single-earners and single-parents – in the classical sense with father, mother, child; up to the patchwork family – is something that goes beyond reality, I would say. Family support means the possibility to better reconcile work and family life, for example with a parenting period. Parents should be able to adapt working time to the new family situation after the birth of their child. Family support, as it is needed today, also means extension of childcare facilities. A good offer of childcare facilities brings more women into employment and thus also helps to secure the prosperity of our country. More than half of the women, 51 percent, say that the Austrians would certainly have more children if family and work were easier to reconcile; another 21 percent believe that. Many studies, including those of the EU and OECD, confirm the link between childcare rates and birth rates. More children are born in countries with high childcare rates than in countries where there are less well-developed childcare places. So you see, ladies and gentlemen, we still have a long way ahead of us. Family promotion is a very extensive topic – but it does not mean taking some money into your hands and distributing it in principle. Family promotion is also not a keyword, but needs to be prepared seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e22274	The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e22296	Madam President. High house! In terms of content, there is agreement with this request. We also want tax relief for families with children; this is important to us, that is also the target group for us. I also think it is positive that the request mentions the last tax reform, namely the child surcharges on the single-earner discount amount at the level, depending on the number of children. The forthcoming tax reform must also have a focus in this direction. I would also like to mention that in the meantime, from the last tax reform until now, there have been positive measures in this area, such as the increase in family support for several children, the Baby Package et cetera. The choice of child care benefits can be seen as a smaller but important step in family policy. The tax reform with 1. January 2010 will bring with it a significant part of family relief. Another proposal by the Austrian People's Party for this would be a family division according to a model where there is a... – No, we are not, Mr. Strache! [[Abg. Strache: You've been away from that for a long time!]] [[Abg. Strache: You've already thrown that overboard!]] In any case: We will have to discuss about €5,000 per family member of the family, which is our proposal. You will also need to discuss the tax deductibility of child care costs. Thus, we are introducing a tax reform by the ÖVP: as a tangible relief for the families. Finally, on this subject. A total volume of €3 billion is available for Hie, and this will be respected. 300 million of these have been spent practically already by the inflation control package in the lowest wage range. That is why it will also be necessary to discuss whether additional funds can be used for the family sector in the form of a possible gambling tax. A proposal on this is on the table; I think that is worthy of discussion. Anyway, I mean, we have to continue along this path. Mr Strache, your request will certainly be done with our tax reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e22351	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e22373	Madam President. High house! Mr Strache, you already have to decide what you want: Once, as today, you submit a request for an increase in the number of single parents' withdrawals, but another time you make a request for family division. What is in reality? Your focus? Wouldn't it make sense for you to think about what you want – and to throw it into an overall concept to see where the journey is really going? [[Abg. Strache: It's about a quick improvement!]] – Let’s take a look at whether this is a “crazy improvement” and in whose sense that is at all. Let us look at this single-earner deduction in tax law, especially from the gender perspective. What does that mean from the gender perspective? – Mr Weinzinger, you do not want to understand this, but this is so: [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: What is the gender perspective?]] From the gender perspective, the patriarchal family image of the past centuries is thus cemented. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] I think it would be very time-consuming, and it would also be useful to use the tax reform before us to search through the tax law in relation to gender justice and to look for innovative and new solutions – but not to take the journey into the past millennium, as you have done from FPÖ in part now, with your request, but at least with your request regarding family division. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] If we are already thinking about tax measures for people with children, it would be useful to set incentives for partnering. We of the Greens have already presented a model long ago, a tax deduction for the sharing of child care: with the aim of first increasing the participation of men in childcare – I think that is a long-term step – and second with the aim of overcoming the patriarchal family model, the They want to be promoted by the FPÖ by this request, but also by the application concerning family division. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Yes, with your request for family division. I'm still staying for a moment on the subject of family division. The ÖVP has already adopted some of this – and now calls it “family division according to Austrian cutting”, which should always be that. You also decide: Do you want a family split – or do you want to take an innovative path? We will take a close look at this, and we will also have the opportunity to discuss it in detail in the coming weeks or months in connection with the 2010 tax reform. With regard to the family division requested by you, Mr Strache: Who do you like with this family division? – The wealthy in society? – – The children not! - Childless, too. [[Abg. The kids!]] [[Abg. Street: The “evil ” children are taken into account!]] With this model, they favor the minister. And what else do you do with this model? – They keep women away from the labour market. [[Abg. It's bad!]] And that really doesn't fit into the 21st. 19th century! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e22505	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. Legal remaining time: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e22527	Madam President. High house! The increase in the number of children in the single-earner retirement allowance was a great and important measure in the framework of the 2005 tax reform, which was introduced at the initiative of the BZÖ. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] The relief for the families must continue now – also due to the high wave of inflation, also due to the high loads! We can only agree that at least now an inflation adjustment is being made to this measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e22563	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with request 683/A to the Financial Committee. The agenda is exhausted. [[20:10:14]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-05-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00058_d8e22598	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 710/A to 733/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Question No 4242/J to 4279/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 8. May 2008, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
