ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e3406	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you very warmly to ask you to take your seats and open the 4th. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of the 1. Meeting and the Official Protocol of the 2. Meeting of 28. In October 2008, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Lohfeyer and Vilimsky. [[12:02:43]] Angelobung
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e3440	The electorate of Mr Mag. present in the House today. Wilhelm Molterer is here. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask Mrs Hagenhofer, the rapporteur, to read the text of the vow, and I may ask you to rise from the squares.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e3470	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e3491	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e3513	I too can very much welcome you as a Member of Parliament here in the House. [[12:03:52]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e3534	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e3742	Mr Klubobmann spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e3773	Madam President. Paragraph 59 of the Rules of Procedure provides that, as was the case in the President, there should be no agreement on the agenda, there should be the possibility of holding a debate on the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you to have them, or should you not do so, I would also make a request as a Member of Parliament to hold a debate on the Rules of Procedure, because it cannot be said that if the opposition, after having already been denied work in this House, together with a request for a special meeting, would cause the competent ministers to refuse to make a statement on this matter. I think that this refusal to work has not been lost here in this House. We also want to hold a debate on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e3807	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glavischnig, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e3832	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There is the possibility to make a statement here in the House as a minister – that is a possibility not to make a commitment. However, I think it is a very, very bad style and a very bad start, even for the new relationship between a future Chancellor and Parliament, if one does not follow the invitation, the invitation, to a very current situation that moves many people in Austria, namely, thousands of families, people who are afraid of their jobs and do not know how to make a statement here, but who are forced to come to this House and participate in the debate on this subject because of a urgent request. It is therefore not possible to force a statement by means of the Rules of Procedure, but it is nevertheless a very bad signal for the cooperation between new Minister, future Chancellor and this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e3859	On the Rules of Procedure: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e3883	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In our view, it is also an underestimation to consider it in the light of the economic crisis and, above all, the performance of the close-to-state companies in Austria is not worth making a statement of government, especially since it is not a matter of someone who needs a 100-day period of time to answer these questions, but of someone who has been in office for two years and who is responsible for all these crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e3919	Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e3943	I have to tell you, I'm in front of a mystery: These statements are totally inexplicable to me when we had a presidential meeting and set out a work plan. We will set up the committees next week, and it will be on 3 March. On December 10th and on December 10th, 10th, 18th, 18th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, 10th, There's going to be a fishing observation, there's going to be a government statement. – What to discuss You're there, aren't you? Three days, four days, five days? They have had so much time before today, but there has been no need for a special meeting – now suddenly there are them. There is a urgent – I don't know why you appreciate the instrumentarium of the urgent request so little – then there is the possibility that we will discuss it here. This initiative does not convince us at all, and we have enough opportunity... – No, this is also not so easy to do with Parliament-new, not Parliament-new, but this schedule is very reasonable and gives the opportunity to really discuss all of this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] In parallel, the government has taken the steps to be taken in this crisis, but we will then be able to debate that. So I don't understand at all. I actually do not fully understand the special session at this late date, but that is the right of opposition, of course, and we are always pleased if we are allowed to hold these principle debates in this House – now and in the future too. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You don't have to understand that, that's a right!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e3984	Mr Klubobmann Pröll has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e4008	From our point of view, the fact is clear: There is a right to special sitting, which you have used today, and we will discuss together in the next few hours in the context of a urgent request on the topics you desire. However, there is no obligation to make statements for ministers. And that's the resolution of this afternoon. Mr Verkehrsminister will be speaking and replying from 3 p.m., if I see it correctly, on the desired and critical issues as you see it, and we will have an opportunity to discuss it thoroughly.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e4044	I consider the request made by Mr Klubobmanns Strache to be a request for a debate on business treatment on the amendment to the agenda of today's sitting and to put it to the vote immediately. Whoever gives his consent to this request, I would like to ask for a sign of this kind. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e4078	According to § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure asked the written question 228/J tabled at the beginning of the sitting by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology on the maintenance of infrastructure in Austria and the crisis of close-to-state enterprises in the context of an inadequate government programme for XXIV. It is important to take urgent measures to deal with the legislative period. The debate on this urgent question will be held at 3 p.m. I announce that the meeting will be broadcast live by ORF during the period from 15 to 5 p.m. Reasonable time agreement
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e4102	The following speaking time agreement was reached for the debate on the urgent question: Questioner: 15 minutes, opinion of a member of the government: 12 minutes, one word per group: 8 minutes, another member of the government: 10 minutes each, one speech per group: 4 minutes, one word per group: 3 minutes. Before the end of the final round, the President-in-Office, after consulting the club presidents, shall distribute the remaining speaking time to the five political groups in such a way as to ensure that all political groups are able to speak evenly during the television period. Actual corrections will only be made after the television broadcast has ended. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. Election of committees
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e4139	We shall go into the agenda and come to the election of the committees. It is for me to put in place the following committees: Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, Committee on Foreign Affairs, Building Committee, Budget Committee, Family Committee, Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology, Committee on the Rules of Procedure, Health Committee, Equal treatment committee, Committee on Internal Affairs, Justice Committee, Consumer Protection Committee, Cultural Committee, National Defence Committee, Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Committee on Human Rights, Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, The Court of Auditors, Committee on Sports, Tourism Committee, Committee on the Environment, Public Health Information Committee, Constitutional Committee, Transport Committee, Public Prosecutor's Committee, Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs and Science Committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of setting up the committees referred to above to be a sign of this. – This is unanimously accepted. In accordance with Article 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Council shall determine the number of members and alternate members of each committee. The members and substitute members shall be appointed to the parliamentary clubs in accordance with the principles laid down in section 30 of the Rules of Procedure or in accordance with § 32 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The clubs shall make the members of the committee and alternate members of the President, who shall be deemed to be elected. After consulting the Presidential Conference, the following members and substitute members are now proposed by common accord for the Committees mentioned: The Committee of the Rules of Procedure shall consist of 17 members and alternate members each. In accordance with the Shapley procedure, five members and replacement members of the SPÖ each, five members and replacement members of the ÖVP, three members and replacement members each to the FPÖ, and two members and replacement members to the BZÖ and the Greens. For all other committees mentioned above, 27 members and replacement members are proposed. In accordance with the d’Hondt’s system, eight members and replacement members of the SPÖ each, eight members and replacement members of the ÖVP, five members and replacement members of the FPÖ, as well as three members and replacement members each shall be the BZÖ and the Greens. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with the proposed number of members and the composition to give a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. The names of the members or substitutes who have been announced by the President's clubs, and thus as elected Members, are listed in the Stenographical Protocol. [[Not all lists were available at the time of printing.]] [[The members and substitute members and the elected functions are available on the Internet under the heading ‘Parliamentary Events’.]] I am now interrupting the sitting until 3 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e4323	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session and ask you to take your seats. [[15:05:28]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology on the maintenance of infrastructure in Austria and the crisis of close-to-state enterprises in the context of an unfit government programme for XXIV. legislative period (228/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e4359	We come to the urgent discussion of the written question 228/J. As it has now reached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e5338	The speaking times are known and decided, and I give the floor to the questioner, Mr Klubobmann Strache, at a speaking time of 15 minutes to justify the request. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e5360	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Dear government team! Ladies and gentlemen! We have seen some interesting developments over the last few weeks, and we also have to note that the parties SPÖ and ÖVP, who have found themselves in the coalition negotiations and who have been quite oblivious to a hack, did not want to convene a November meeting and, I say this openly, have lived a certain refusal to work. – In this case, the opposition has rightly come together, for it cannot be that SPÖ and ÖVP simply block, slow down and paralyze parliamentarianism, and therefore I am glad that all the opposition parties in this House have jointly guaranteed this special meeting today. It must be noted, however, that despite this special meeting, which has now been made possible by more than a third of the Members, you have not even ignored the request for opposition and also the topics of this special meeting. Both of you – and I know, Mr Faymann and Mr Molterer, that you do not have to make statements from the Rules of Procedure – have not been able to provide explanations on necessary and important issues as regards the current financial crisis, the banking sector, the AUA, the ÖBB and Post sectors. – And this is a more than strange style and already reminds us of a lack of democracy, because we are in a new situation, as you, Mr Faymann, are in the meantime standing firm as a designated Chancellor and do not feel like living parliamentaryism and the opposition that has requested a special meeting to be answered. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] Mr Faymann, you have refused to make a statement. They apparently live by the motto: If we do not want to, then nothing will happen from our side, nothing will happen at all. – This is a certain foretaste that you have given here today, namely a foretaste to a coming period of government, with which you, as the Federal Chancellor-designate, seem to tell us how you intend to deal with Parliament as Chancellor in the future. And this is not a good foretaste, and probably one of many ear figs that you intend to give Parliament, as you have done today with your refusal to make a statement. As a strengthened opposition, the three opposition parties in this House, in which we have one third of the votes, will certainly not be seen if you continue to act as more designed and perhaps as an active piggist towards Parliament. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have therefore tabled a urgent request from the Parliamentary Club of Liberals today so that you, Minister and Mr. Designated Chancellor Faymann, cannot escape and do not believe in being able to take responsibility. In this urgent question with many questions relating to your ministerial department, we have also ensured that you have to speak and answer and not be able to play the silence minister. As an infrastructure minister, you've been baffled in your area of responsibility! For maintaining the necessary infrastructure in Austria, you have nothing – but really nothing! – did. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] And don't believe that you can't keep anything from me in the Federal Chancellery without having to bear responsibility for this area that you have designed in recent years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If what Mr Faymann did not do as an infrastructure minister, but failed, was the general test for his work as Federal Chancellor, then you can really just say: [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Good night, Austria! The state has earned a functioning infrastructure, not only a functioning infrastructure, but also, of course, a reliable basic provision of goods and services for its citizens. This is one of the basic and main tasks of a state, but in recent years we have had to experience in Austria that there has been a complete failure. What happened under a Mr Faymann as an infrastructure minister in our country? – Our country has been increasingly weakened, yes, in some areas a real blow has taken place! The AUA has been systematically flown to the wall, so to speak, and after the AUA has been systematically flown to the wall, you have simply erased from the table by various other airlines such as KLM or Air France, which will also lead to processes – and perhaps also to a great blow within the European Union. One has also begun to disassemble post offices... – I think you are confusing something, you may have looked away as usual at SPÖ and as Minister Faymann has looked away! [[Call the SPÖ: I think you're confusing something!]] That all happened to Faymann's knowledge. Federal Minister Faymann was involved, but he misinformed the public – even though he knew exactly about it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Not only Faymann, but since February/March 2008 the entire Council of Ministers has been aware of developments both in the AUA and in the postal sector. That's what it's all about! Due to the crisis of the Austrian economy and many state-owned or state-owned enterprises, such as ÖBB, Post, Telekom, AUA, ASFINAG and so on, it is precisely with regard to infrastructure and thus with regard to the areas essential to the maintenance of our economy, the question of how future provision and maintenance of a functioning infrastructure should be regulated. That is exactly where you have to make Mr Faymann stand firm in his responsibilities. But Faymann has not given any answers until now. In the last few months, however, he has been mainly concerned with the lubrication comedy of a coalition debate and with coalition games, after a new election which has been provoked and where I still have in mind the words of the Minister of Finance Molterer, who has turned to the public and said: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] “It’s enough!” Yes, the Austrians have made it – and you from ÖVP and SPÖ have the answer on 28 May. On September 1, 2008, the government parties responsible for this issue were given exactly the same status as the previous one. The Austrians have given you both a clear rejection on this election day – but now the two previously responsible government coordinators, Mr Faymann and Mr Pröll, who have in fact failed in the former Federal Government, collide together and want to put the new – in reality: the old – federal government. Pröll and Faymann were the responsible government coordinators for this already elected disaster government – and this is now to continue? In the new government programme, which has become known in the meantime – with a size of 267 pages thicker, but considerably thinner and more empty than the previous government program – you will find loud platites, empty and hollow phrases! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Nothing specific was defined except that you agreed on headlines and then wanted to negotiate details in working groups! – This is what we already know; this has been exactly the method of the Austrian People’s Party in the past, namely to leave everything as loose as possible, in order to be able to say later on, that is not in the government program, and to be able to provoke the fight again, Well, if there is nothing in it, then you will not make anything possible for our country in the next five years, although, like others, it is in a real crisis. But this is exactly what the Austrians expect from a new German government, namely that the correct answers to the existing problems are defined, and that solutions are defined, or that the time frame is ready to take the necessary steps to ensure that positive signals are given in a crisis in which there is a great deal of psychology, e.g. for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, for the middle class you have neglected by ÖVP and SPÖ in the last years of your government activity and, so to speak, treated as a stepchild. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: You know better!]] That's exactly what's missing! There is nothing for infrastructure, nothing for SMEs, nothing for small and medium-sized enterprises, nothing for the labour market that could be read out of this programme! Nothing – except hollow phrases and headlines, where nothing more is defined! This government programme, Mr. Designated Federal Chancellor and Failed Minister of Infrastructure Faymann, is empty and pointless – and this also stands for your entire political activity as Minister: empty and pointless! That is why, Mr Faymann, you can be referred to today as someone who continues what Gusenbauer started in 2006. The cast builder I cabinet will end next week – and then there is a “gusenbauer II cabinet”, just without a cast builder. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Worse! The ÖVP is more powerful than ever!]] In terms of content, Mr Faymann, you have taken the same path as Gusenbauer in 2006: Promises to vote before the election – and after the election to throw all the promises on board so that you can only become Austrian Federal Chancellor! This is exactly the same pattern that we could already experience in 2006 under your predecessor Gusenbauer! The main thing is that you are Chancellors, Mr Faymann – and for this you can be drawn by the ÖVP at the Nasenring by the Polit-Manege, in order to allow the current government programme to be allowed to do so – more clearly you can no longer formulate it at all – to offer your election promises to you, Mr Faymann, such as what national referendums have reached to the EU Constitutional Treaty, where you are now throwing a heartpiece of your election campaign overboard, and today the ÖVP has promised in writing in the government programme that you will not vote in favour of the ÖVP, but will do very well, Mr Faymann, what Mr Pröll will give you on this issue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schönpass:... when you were in the government?- Oh, my God!]] Good night, Austria!, I can only say there. And this also proves once again, Mr Faymann, that you have fallen by the fact that you do not intend at all to help Austrian interests in the issue of a referendum on the EU Constitutional Treaty. This is black and white in this government programme. Their entire policy, Mr Faymann, appears to be a SPÖ bake in front of the ÖVP. This is also seen in the ministerial occupations, where it is as similar as under Gusenbauer I: The most interesting, the really necessary and important resorts have once again left you from the SPÖ to the ÖVP – whether that is the interior resort, the foreign resort, the judicial resort or the financial and economic resort. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: More! More than before!]] These are exactly the same mechanisms of chancellorism as in 2006, with basically everyone who is rationally talented in Austria can only wonder about such a course of action. But your policy has always been a policy of failure – and we are now again referring specifically to Minister Faymann, with regard to post, with her full liberalization of European postal markets from 1st century onwards. January 2011, after which also letters, postcards et cetera will be delivered by alternative providers. If Austria has prepared for it, has the responsible infrastructure minister Faymann taken timely action, has he prepared in time to prepare us for it? – No, nothing like it! He saw no need for action, Mr. Infrastructural. It has only become active when the radical plans regarding the reduction of personnel and the closures of post office have come to light. Then he also said the untruth when he said: No, so please, I didn't know anything about that, which later turned out to be untruth. – And finally, he is doing a populist measure by suspending what he really cannot prevent for a few months. Minister Faymann should have countered in time and prepared in time for it! Similarly, things lie with the AUA, even there he knew nothing, Mr Faymann: He did not know that Mr. Ötsch and Mr. Michaelis were driving, as they just wanted, until everything was too late – Mr. Michaelis, who is also the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Post: a disaster manager, where I am really saying that he is long-term retiring, but nothing happens either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There seems to be a disaster duo that understands itself perfectly – and it believes that you can go through everything. And one thing shows up in all these areas, down to Vienna – I am not going to talk about it now, as far as the cross-border leasing business in Vienna is concerned, where you, Mr. Faymann, were also involved with Mr. Mayor Häupl and the family silver sold in Vienna, the canal networks and other areas, where we have suffered incredible losses on the American stock exchanges, where the money was created by the large insurance institution AIG, which has gone down there, so that we are in the credit today and the Vienna taxpayers have to stand for it: That is how you plan it in other areas, as well as in the banking sector! And now I tell you clearly: Since today, it has been clear that Raiffeisen is also rising by €2 billion. But you are not yet able to define legal framework conditions! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Incredible!]] This is the money of taxpayers, and it is not responsible for making available to Austrian banks State loans for which the taxpayer is entitled without the Court of Auditors having the possibility to review the balance sheet! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is not only unreasonable and irresponsible – I come to the conclusion – to leave the taxpayer in the rain here, who does not receive loans at Basel II, but now has to face loans for Austrian banks, which may then invest this money in speculation business and in the East, where this bubble will be put in the future. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] In the Austrian economy it belongs to investment, and for loans from small and medium-sized entrepreneurs!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e5565	Mr Klubobmann Strache, for the two concepts, namely, to have something “broken” and of lubrication comedy, I give you a call for order. Mr Faymann next came to the answer to the questions raised to him, in a time of 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e5592	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the list of words just was an impressive example, which proves that it is good that we have completed our government negotiations without the FPÖ. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You're not allowed to do that! Polemik from the government bank!]] If anyone in this House makes the claim, interesting and important resorts only get the ÖVP, Mr. Colleague, then allow me to say: There are a number of interesting and important resorts for which no proposal has been agreed by the ÖVP. This includes the Ministry of Infrastructure, which includes the Ministry of Women, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labour, which includes all the other departments that are important and interesting for this country! [[Abg. Street: Completely amputated, these resorts! Completely amputated resorts!]] – This answer will be held out by Mr Strache, who claimed in this House that only a part of the resorts were important and interesting. And this also proves that it's good without forming a government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But the “great lot” has drawn the Darabos!]] So you have five years ago, when a new government has five years as a legislative period available to wage elections. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The “great lot” has drawn Darabos, and that’s the second time!]] We were actually aware of that. And I'm telling you, I know why you're planning this. Because you are not in a position to create a constructive policy, but because the others have trained up to high performance, words can hardly be overbited – only the proposals are missing. [[Call the FPÖ: You repeat!]] And the proposals for our country are at a time when there is an economic crisis in Europe – I would like to tell you what we have done in the infrastructure and in the other areas – not words, but: [[Abg. New builder: Say what you did!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Many ads you have!]] Research, development, economic policy, roads and rails! [[Abg. Strache: Now are the word aids coming!]] [[Abg. That's exactly what you're talking about!]] We have not focused on simply rowing up any sayings from the election campaign, but on providing services in this country, achievements that Austrians know – as well as the difference between words and achievements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now, if you ask me 68 detailed questions, knowing that it requires respect for the agreement of this House not to exceed 12 minutes as time for reply, then you also know that this means a 10-second answer for each of your questions. - So much for your seriousness. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You can submit it in writing! That's not a problem!]] Since I consider many of the questions to be very interesting and consider it necessary to answer them more in detail, I will answer them in writing and come now only to those three, four points or questions which I can answer in the time available to me – and only in summary. [[Abg. Strache: Would you have made a statement! Then you could have arranged this differently!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You will not prescribe what Parliament...!]] More orders for Austria's economy and more purchasing power for Austrian consumers: This is outstanding in our government programme, quite different from the one you claimed – as you call it in your question – “a background to an unfit government program”. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And now it is read!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why are you reading?]] – It is actually said that a question cannot be wrong, but only one answer. But in this question, where you are talking about a “unfair government program, ” you have managed to start wrong. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, the answer is wrong!]] A suitable government programme is created by not only formulating targets, but also, as will be the case in our government programme, that measures with more than €5 billion for the coming year and then more specifically for the year 2010, measure for action, should be specified: for example, in the tax reduction for those people who belong to the middle class in our country, and for those people who are members of small incomes, as well as for families and families with children. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The free speech is valid in Parliament!]] If, in case alone, the purchasing power is calculated by a tax reduction, by a family package, then it will be assumed that for many who need it very urgently, there are many hundreds of euros which they receive on the individual case, on the example, in tax reduction and thus in purchasing power strengthening. [[Abg. Strache: They will still cry to the cast farmer!]] [[Abg. Strache: They will still cry after the German chancellor Gusenbauer, the Austrians!]] And it will not be indifferent to these families, unlike you, who only have the title, whether they have net resources available through less taxes, whether they receive a stronger purchasing power and whether they see a government operating in this country doing more than rowing up headlines, which ensure that the purchasing power increases, that the economy is boosted, that the bank package not only creates a protective screen that is so abstract in space, but that the small, medium-sized economy, even the industry in our country, will also be credited so that the order books can be filled again in so that employment in our country will increase more than that in other countries that do not provide for it all. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But you've been in a government so far, haven't you?]] Therefore, we can say that this financial crisis and economic policy and the economic researchers who predict a great deal to us in their predictions call for a dedicated and courageous counter-tax that is in no way “irruptible” in your expression. The economic package I, about €900 million for infrastructure investments for the years 2009 to 2012, all the measures you have also taken – or at least many of them – in the area of the AWS for the SME Fund, more money for small and medium-sized enterprises, support programmes that enable you to intervene in time and to produce liquidity and therefore job opportunities, investments and finally job security in our country, are just as much as the economic package II, which we will present in the framework of our government programme. Why don't we introduce the new government to you today? - Because, as you know, a government doesn't start again before a fishing observation. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Because you're slow! Just slow!]] And this is also one of the rules of respect in our country to comply with these procedures, which are also provided for in the Constitution. There are also measures in the past which must also be used properly in response to your questions: for example, the reduction of unemployment insurance contributions for low incomes, which have already been made by 1. ==References====External links==* Official website Family aid, the extension of the hacker scheme by 2013, the increase of the care allowance, a volume of €2.7 billion in the area of tax reduction. Wifo expert Marterbauer said that Austria has tied Europe's second-best economic package – and that counts more for us as an election struggle rhetoric. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also see it as a whole that a government has a general responsibility, that of course it is determined in which ministries which departments are to be responsible, but not instead of overall responsibility, but in order to clarify certain competences and thus also to highlight certain tasks in particular. Therefore, you will probably not be surprised – because you know better – that many of your questions, asked to the Transport Ministers, are so unanswerable from the area of direct responsibility. Indirectly, as a member of the government or in the overall responsibility of the government, I am naturally able to respond, and I also stress that the overall responsibility of a government is important to me. That is why we have also discussed together how we deal with competition in the postal sector, to which the post has already been exposed – without the liberalization decisions that have been discussed in depth in the public, because those decisions in the liberalisation of the letter post only apply from 1 January. January 2011 and the decisions taken this year have not fallen from the sky of chance, but have already been postponed for two years, because the European Union's original liberalisation was already set in 2009. That is, until 2011, we have the opportunity to counter this part of the letter post, for which a liberalised market causes a difficult competitive situation, where this is possible through a universal service regulation or other legal framework. This is sensible – and so it was agreed with the Minister of Finance – in the first half of 2009 to work out and order accordingly. Many will ask: Why do you have to do that in 2009? – Because this preparation time is good, both for the post office and for all those who are planning to participate in the post office market in 2011, namely only in the agglomerations and where it is economically easier – we would say to choose the roses. It is therefore right that in 2011, we do not want to allow any more post-offices – or comparable possibilities of quality assurance – to exist in rural areas; that we also want to prevent new operators from selecting only the areas of the agglomerations; and that we try to protect the post in this area by means of a concession, a fund or other appropriate measures. However, we also know that Post is already involved in the issue of competitiveness, and that has nothing to do with liberalisation 2011. This is about the field of parcel mail, about the removal of branches of business, because fewer letters, but more text messages and e-mails are written, i.e., the departure of business areas, which means that the post must, regardless of these possibilities and the Universal Service Regulation, regardless of consumer protection and quality assurance laws, seek new areas of tasks in which it claims to be post-future and competitive. Therefore, it is a division of tasks between the services to be provided by the company Post, and those framework conditions which – for example in connection with liberalisation 2011 – are to be created by us and thus also by the Universal Service Regulation and other legal provisions. In the field of Austrian Airlines, you know the competence so well that you do not need an explanation of it from me, I think. In the areas of infrastructure and truck toll areas, but also in all the areas you have addressed in your questions about the performance of infrastructure in recent months, we do not need to hide an answer because this area has a great advantage: Each Austrian federal state can be convinced that we have invested the highest rates in the expansion of the railways in order to organize an attractive railway as far as possible in the coming months, in the coming years and in the future of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e5953	The speakers of the next round have a speaking time of 8 minutes each. Next, Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e5978	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Minister of Infrastructure, Federal Chancellor in Spe, Mr Faymann! They have shown that in 12 minutes, even if you talk a lot, you can be quite able to not give a single answer. It's a piece of art! But we did not expect anything else from you either. I didn't think – but unfortunately it is – that we are going to be embarrassed to Mr. Gusenbauer even today, where he's not even really gone, in fact, to cry a tear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have today 25th. November 2008, and yesterday, that is, just a month before Christmas, you gave the Austrians a very special tour of SPÖ and ÖVP: After 56 days of So-Tun, as if there were in essential things any difference between red and black, one has felt so right breathing up that this adjustment that this so-tun-as-as-at last has found an end. Can now They are once again the same as you are, and the genetic code that is in your two parties, namely a system of proporation, a system of friendly economy and the packaging, wants to continue to be maintained, hopes how big the crisis is. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about the fact that a multiple failed minister for infrastructure that is one of the great losers of the 28th century. September 2008 – I am talking about you, Mr Faymann, who has managed to bring the SPÖ down into unimagined depths – so that one of the losers and thus chief of a actually elected party wants to present himself as a new chancellor and red wuzzi in the face of the economic crisis and is increasing. What you have presented to us in the last two days is not a great coalition, but it is a coalition of the great losers, if you want to get it to the point, a coalition of system concretes, a coalition of the proporzgruptis, a coalition of the reformers in the colours red and black. And I'll tell you: Red and black, that's exactly the opposite of red and white red, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is a coalition of two parties who are not afraid of anything more than that in this country we are finally ventilated properly, as we want to have liberals, and who have nothing more fear than that at last the belt will be tightened up there – and not always with the people outside, just as you already plan. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, once again have been hanged together for a last defence period – that I can already announce to you – which you have carefully extended by a year, but I guarantee you, it will be the last period. They have once again formed a Wagenburg, a Wagenburg against the renewal in this country, a Wagenburg against the needs that Austria would basically have to fulfil in these difficult times, a Wagenburg against optimism and against future security. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take a closer look at this: The future chancellor, who has also been the engine of the old coalition – he has now forgotten that; Mr Gusenbauer, I apologise for doing so, as if he had nothing to do with the whole mess – the forging of the new edition of this loser coalition, which no one in Austria wanted to have, which will not bring to people any noticeable reliefs that try to boost the economy a little, but not to the necessary extent, because the measures are far too little efficient, that is already an infrastructure minister of a very special kind, that is to say to you. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Faymann, to whom the “immortal merit” comes, as a public of the community buildings for immigrants to go into history, this Mr Faymann, one who has written into his programme the unwholesome red-black infrastructure, a infrastructure of the propor and the friendly economy, an infrastructure of the suffocation and the pure self-retaining of a red and black propaganda system and power apparatus. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] You have to go into that – the program is thin enough – which is not in the program. This is much worse, because that is all you do not want to change in this country at all. This is the actual “infrastructural security measure” that you can put on the hat, and nothing else, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is the question of what this new and at the same time so terriblely old government is really about in view of the financial crisis that is developing into an economic crisis. This is not a second of the struggle for any jobs, for example at the post-posters, Mr Faymann, where you may be in a short-term approach to memory trauma, I would like to say now that you have been the one who has picked up all the closures before the election. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Yes, of course, you were a yes-sager in this closing program! They were the one who, together with the Post Manager, first staged the Kahlschlag. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] I find it particularly “white” if I know it – you will correct me, no, you will not correct me, because I am right – needs a unanimous Council of Ministers decision to hang over the Golden Merchandise of the Republic to Mr. Wais for his balding, which he carried out at the post office. I think this is very interesting. Since this is so "loving" and probably music in the ears of the posters, I do not want to abstain from the ladies and gentlemen at home, what the then vice chancellor or present Bald-no-more-Vice chancellor at the time said to the Lord in his Laudatio, who staged this bald blow. That's interesting: “Just the way of EU integration or post exchange is proof of the opportunities of change that have been used – in the sense of the employees, the jobs, the companies and the location.” – This is music in the ears of the Posters, who now stand the water to the neck and who can no longer believe anything for you and your suspension plans. [[Abg. That's a joke!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What you are leading, ladies and gentlemen, is also not a hearty fight against the development of a despatch mentality with public funds at the expense of the general public, because you have lived this programme yourself in your responsibility for the ÖBB. There you only welcome yourself with Golden Handshakes, not because the managers all have to leave because they are not professionally able to fulfill their task. – They have to leave because they don't fit you from the party color. There you are very, very generous with the treatises and the money you throw out the window just to get rid of someone, then put in one of your political artists for it. Don't talk about sparing and responsible handling of taxpayers' money! Don't do that because you're one of the masterminds behind all this cross-board insanity, as he was driven forward in Vienna! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's right. This is a form of the worst speculation at the expense of the general public, where security of supply is further called into question by parts of the population. If, for example, you, Mr Faymann, are now preaching in the banking sector that the State and the public sector are now required, I will tell you: That's the public hand you've got all your fingers amputated, and they're now calling for help to get out of this mess. If you say so, I think that's the same thing as if a Kurtisan, who runs her business during the day, would sit down in the evening and give lectures on grace and morality. – This is about the same pattern as regards credibility. We do not believe in you a word about what you are saying here as regards the guarantee of security of supply. I would therefore like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e6112	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled. He's on trial. However, I would draw attention to the fact that when everyone is dealing with the speaking time, our Rules of Procedure will not be observed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e6227	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e6250	Madam President. High house! At the best of my will, my previous speaker did not succeed in getting the mood into the house. This must also be due to the contents of this speech. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What surprises me is that the two other opposition parties that have made this special meeting possible for Strache and Kickl to give their speeches, as if they were not present. It's so obscene to me. If you make a third-party special session, you also have to act together and praise together, but not that two-thirds do so and one-third are trying to get out of there and don't bring together a good speech! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's what I'm telling you: That was polemic instead of content, what you presented here, because with these speeches you did not create a single workplace for post, Telekom and railway – not a single one! Every member of staff who has watched it will have shook his head and asked: What are the concepts? What are the alternatives? Yes, you can't even say what the specific criticism was, because there were only provocative statements, so that we can get mint, because you noticed, we'll nod soon. Thank you for the calls, but that's too little. I have to tell you, there's even more to the text of your urgents. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's very good!]] It has probably not been formulated by the first speaker or by the second speaker. You probably had a Ghost writer. But there is at least one indication in what happens to the important infrastructures when politics with them – and you have not done so anymore – is neoliberal. We can then start a discussion, because that is very important to me. That also says Hannes Androsch, whom I would like to quote there – and that is the central point: [[Abg. Strache: Raiffeisen-Günstling!]] On the one hand, the distributed companies should act as private listed entrepreneurs, on the other hand perform public tasks for which no award was provided. – This is the central point. If we sit down and say, here's the post, and we want from the post also services, which private does not think in the dream of fulfilling them, then you have to ask yourself the question of how to honour it if you want it. If you don't pay for it, the post will have problems, in the rural areas dependent on this comprehensive supply, and there will also be a problem for those who are busy there. If you do not address this core question, you are either neoliberal or an ignorant. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] You can then choose Ignorant or neoliberal afterwards. I'm excited about what you're gonna do, Mr. Josef Bucher. I guess you're going to choose neoliberal. But that doesn't help. This is also true of the communication media, which is also true of Telekom, yes, it also meets the train. If you expect the train to perform certain social tasks, you can't say in the same breath: What's going on with the railway? It doesn't work! That must be profitable, it must be profit-making! – The issue of the relationship between profitability and social performance is crucial. [[Abg. Strache: You are selling the rail to a company where prices are now being driven up!]] Now the question is: Where are you? Are you on the side of consumers? Are you on the side of the employees at Post, Telekom or Railway? Or are you on the other hand, risking that these companies are in danger of getting into an blatant shale? We can be glad that there is this government now with this government programme, because they are committed to these public services; there is a clear commitment to this. Whoever acknowledges these public services also acknowledges the fact that both employees and consumers have some of them. It is actually an Austrian, a national task for the whole country and for the population. [[Abg. Street: 600,000 speculated at the ÖBB!]] Then we can also hold a principle debate on general care. Do you know why we have entered this debate on neoliberality? There have also been many, and world-wide, the upper gurus of neoliberality, which has meant, cannot even be suspended from living, health, pensions to the stock exchanges and markets in order to achieve a profit maximization? I have to tell you, you can do that clearly, but you have to be aware of the social price, that the safeguarding of living is also a social task, that living cannot be left unprotected to the markets. [[Abg. Street: The energy costs in Vienna!]] I'm telling you because this is always confused at this point: Regulation is rules. Regulation is not any new form of planning economy. Nobody cares about a Karl Marx in the Dietz publishing house, that's all nonsense, but there must be rules in the market economy. If Sunday speakers are always talking about social market economy, then this term says that, if market economy is to be social, it should have rules so that it is social. Sometimes it has to go so far as to say that the market economy has to be protected or regulated from itself. I'm not saying rules, I'm saying rules. I think it is crucial that those who live in a country can also really live in apartments that are manageable that they have a corresponding infrastructure, a post that you can also telephone that all of this works and is also manageable. If you want to, you have to confess that there is this form of a social market economy. Then the state is asked to act and intervene sometimes. I have to tell you, I'm not going to be smart out of the urgent request. [[Abg. Your group is sleeping right now, Mr Cap!]] I don't know what you want to do, because I think what happened now – for example, that you have said, now is a break, the board doesn't hold on to the closure of the post offices – for good reason and for good. It needs to be considered, and it is in the interest of the people, but also of the staff to seek and find solutions. This mere throw-out and reduction is not our way, at least, because we believe that it is about the workers, about the population, about the supply. It is also a question of the state's role in a social society in the future. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is also important for the countries and communities. Then the mayors will have to report, then they will have to speak to those who represent national interests here. I also recognise the need for banks to function and, if they need support, help them to work the economy, because we all benefit from it, and we can then ensure that we live in a society where there are social values, where equal opportunities exist and where education is financially available. Therefore, there are also the economic packages of this Federal Government: Economics Package I, Economics Package II, Pre-payment of Tax Reform – which, of course, makes sense for the economy to be set in motion – and the bank security, in which you were involved in decision-making, which ensures security and financial and credit transactions. [[Abg. But the legal arrangements for the banks that use the money must be ensured!]] Austria is in the European comparison with the country that is most committed and committed in this context. That should also honor the opposition if it wants to be taken seriously. That's my proposal. You do not have to accept my proposal for an opposition policy. [[Abg. Strache: Then accept a proposal of the opposition!]] It may be that you want to go your own way. Then go this one. But my proposal would be to take this seriously into account, if one wants to deal with it, because then this country will take a good course, and the population can assume that the government is active to guarantee social security and secure the future. And that's what we're standing for.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e6420	Next, Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e6442	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Kickl has just tried to explain to us that red and black are the opposite of red and white red and that we would now form a Wagenburg against a renewal. It would still be worth quoting many of these sayings that you can get rid of somewhere at the innkeeper's desk, just, Mr. Kickl and dear friends of the FPÖ: People report their fixed network connections – no na; the technical development has gone beyond that – and this is a huge problem for Deutsche Telekom and thus also for its employees, and the company has to adapt to them. [[Abg. Strache: But did not come unexpectedly!]] Policy is not to blame for this changed behaviour of consumers, but of course policy must ensure that supply is ensured in rural areas. But again: The behaviour of consumers has changed. Ladies and gentlemen, people also use less postal services. – It is not a matter of politics either. This changed consumer behaviour requires changes in these companies, requiring a different satisfaction of these changed needs. And our task as a responsible politician is to ensure that we ensure the supply to rural areas, but not by, as you do, explaining and promising the people outside, on the basis of old structures that are not sustainable, to ensure this provision, and thereby enhancing security that cannot exist. As a responsible politician, we must accompany these changes, of course accompany people in these companies and show the managers where their responsibility lies in all seriousness. I did not like everything that has come from the companies mentioned in the last few days, weeks, months, and even Telekom. But we cannot promise people security where they cannot be given. That is, we must accompany these changes together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In any case, the answer is no longer State in these companies. The fact is that the lack of competition in many companies has led to a rigidity which has not led to the improvement of structures and not to the improvement of the quality of services. In this respect, competition and also liberalisation are a driving force for improved services for people when policy sets the appropriate framework conditions for them. Just one example: The link between liberalisation, privatisation and the failure of companies is constantly being established. - That's not the cause! Consider only the ÖIAG in the years 1980 to 1990. We have had to carry out a capital injection of about €4 billion in public resources. Nevertheless, we have lost thousands of jobs because we have tried to protect these companies from necessary structural changes, with false promises for people, and at the end of the year 2000 these companies still had a debt of over €6 billion. Since we released these companies into freedom, freed from political influences, companies such as Voest, Böhler-Uddeholm, VA Tech are highly successful, prosperate, employ thousands, Zig thousands of employees and still issue dividends to the ÖIAG and thus finally to the public hands of over one billion. But, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words, because it was also referred to by Klubobmann Strache, to the government and to the government programme. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This isn't easy on the lips yet!]] A high economic phase is coming to an end. Austria has been particularly successful in this high stage. With our growth rates, we have always been able to move above the EU average. The number of unemployed has declined steadily in recent years. We have practically full employment. But even now in the downturn, which will come and cause us a lot of pain, even in this downturn, we are still doing well compared with other countries. Budgetary expenditure remains stable. But let's not deny it, let's not discuss it away, the downturn is there. We feel this particularly in the construction industry, in export-driven property production. We cannot create the economy alone, as we participate in the international concert. But what we need and what we put on the table with this government programme is a comprehensive strategy to deal with this coming crisis with a banking aid package. Don't always deny this package as gifts to the banks! [[Abg. Where's the control?]] If we had not done so, the people concerned would have been the small savers, the small and medium-sized enterprises, who would have had no funding then. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's the taxpayer's money!]] Ladies and gentlemen, with what we are doing now, we are strengthening the purchasing power: with a 13. Family aid, with an early pension increase, with a tax reform that brings almost €3 billion of additional purchasing power to households, especially in family households with children. In addition, self-employed income taxpayers are also relieved by a measure that is equivalent to the 13th, 14. In the case of a self-employed person, a tax exemption for the self-employed is now also introduced. This is a measure that is tailored precisely to the small and smallest enterprises, which can thus be taxed significantly and secure their businesses. And one last thing: We invest hundreds of millions, even several billions in infrastructure. This enables companies, for example Telekom, to expand broadband in rural areas, investments that we urgently need to secure the rural area that we urgently need as a basis for our economic development, investments that will help to keep the effects of this economic downturn, this crisis must be said to be limited. We are doing everything we can with this programme to give people safety outside their jobs as far as their incomes are concerned by easing them. And you will see that these measures will not miss their effect.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e6541	Mr Klubobmann Bucher came next. Also 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e6563	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It was already very impressive to follow Mr Cap's macroeconomic trip, which once again confused social market economy with social capitalism. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Oje-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] It is indeed this social capitalism that is causing us so much concern, ladies and gentlemen, because it also means a huge backpack of debt that has been hanged us still at the time when you have had significant responsibility in this country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: The Scheibner would be the better Clubobmann! I think the Scheibner would also be the better speaker! Even the Westenthaler was better!]] It is still €160 billion in liabilities that this government has to carry around, liabilities that, of course, significantly narrow the scope. But basically, Mr Cap, you would have had the contact in the person of Mr Faymann. You should have given this macroeconomic presentation to him, for he has been responsible for the missing policy within the ÖIAG and, above all, the state-owned companies and close-to-state companies in the last two years. I'm not saying he made the wrong decisions – I'm not saying that! – but he didn’t make any decisions. And this is the fatale, ladies and gentlemen: A number of companies – Post, AUA, Telekom, ÖIAG and ASFINAG – have not been able to leave alone for two years because of the lack of unity among the government partners and do not tell them what the owner of the Republic wants with these companies, what he is doing with these companies, and, above all, what he has to do with these precious, valuable jobs in these companies, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I can well imagine what happened in the head of the Federal Chancellor, Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, when I remember how Austria stood up in 2005. There was a headline in the “spiegel”: Austria from the kickboard driver to the autonomous success model. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Austria is far more distant today than ever, because what this Federal Government – and unfortunately it finds a “illegal” continuation in the coming years – has failed here, the ignorance it has shown comes primarily to the taxpayers because he will have to provide for the unemployed in the future and because in the future the companies will have to be rehabilitated. That means that the interests of taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen remain on the track. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This policy of despair, Minister Faymann, has you to answer in the ASFINAG and the ÖBB. Look You're up to what you've done there! You sent the managers to the street with expensive treatises. You have given Mr Huber another advisory agreement without ever telling us what this consultation is all about. You haven't said that to this day. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: What did your ministers say?]] You have not answered in any way the questions we ask you. This Mr Huber is today cashing €300 000 a year for a consultation that no one needs to ask anyone who does not know. [[Abg. Strache: Is silence possible? That'll be silenced!]] This is part of a settlement for a person you sent to the desert, and this is not responsible for handling tax resources, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What the post is going on, I'm asking a post minister to indicate the directors that he's heading in the direction he says to the post: You are an important service company, a company with at least 1 300 postal services in Austria, up to far into the valleys of this Republic. These are 1 300 opportunities to open up business areas, especially in order to obtain jobs to ensure the functioning of rural areas. But a post-minister can't say: We now close 1 000 branches and release 9 000 employees! – This is not a perspective, Mr Faymann! The perspective must be that you say: Ladies and gentlemen, it is a difficult time to go, the next two years will not be easy for the Austrian economy. However, the state has a role to play, as the State also has to take action in terms of employment efficiency, and the state has to ensure that important infrastructure areas are expanded so that the rural economy can also find a suitable environment in which it can prosperate. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The wrong path is also the one you take at Telekom by saying: We do not need employees who are in official status, we move to a distributed civil society under the roof of ÖIAG. – I can't do that. You are serious, especially in view of the situation that we in Austria are still lagging behind in broadband provision. We have in Austria the worst branched network of broadband cabling, fiber optic wiring. But the economy needs a well-branched network in the future to remain competitive in the international competition. That would be your perspective, your mission, Mr Faymann: To ensure that people are not put passively, but that people are actively employed and used to have a data network in Austria that needs the economy that enables the economy to develop and secure jobs, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The biggest case of sin is AUA. You have for two years failed to make the decision that AUA needs a strategic partner. We've known this for two years. There is a study already quoted, the Roland-Berger study, which clearly states that the AUA alone is not viable. This is about the “flying identity” of Austria, and how you dealt with this brand company is grossly negligent, Minister of State! You, Mr Faymann, have brought the Privatisation Commission to light, above all in the privatisation field. You know that the negotiating conditions have constantly changed, for example, Air France-KLM never had the opportunity to make an orderly offer because you have always preferred Lufthansa. Indeed, Air France will bring an action before the European Union in respect of procurement law, competition law and equal treatment law, and will ensure that this award procedure, as you have tolerated, is also told accordingly. This marks the unprofessional, unclean and above all, to the detriment of tax payers tolerated policy in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. I therefore believe that it is crucial to work less on its own production – which this Federal Government has demonstrated in the last two years – but to show more responsibility to taxpayers in our Republic. At a time when all the belts need to be tighter, it would be important to make savings if it were to be necessary to make tax reliefs, it would be important to put in place economic measures which actually come to be taken by people and the economy, especially in the medium-sized economy. These would be the right measures for Austria in view of the difficult situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e6699	Now Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek is speaking. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e6720	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Infrastructural Minister Faymann, I understand very much that in 12 minutes we cannot answer 69 questions. That's why I have great understanding. However: You have not answered the most important question by now, and I would therefore like to ask you once again. Why is it such a problem for you, at an invitation, at the request of Parliament, even if it is expressed only by a third of the Members, and to make a statement on the economic situation, in particular on the close-to-state establishments? What's the real problem? Either you actually have a somewhat disturbed relationship with Parliament or you do not see the real importance – or you do not care about a third of the Members more or less. But it is not about the third of the Members, it is essentially about the many thousands of families, about the many people who have observed this, who have read it, who have followed the negative headlines, and know that it is about thousands of jobs, who want to know how it goes on and what your ideas as ministers responsible. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] I do not think it is so difficult to answer these questions. You would have had the opportunity today to comment in detail or at least to give a little guidance, especially in view of the fact that many, many people in Austria have lost confidence not only in politics but also in the economic elites. In view of this, I think it would have been a command of the hour to express itself. I hope that this is not a sign of a bad relationship between the new government, a designated Federal Chancellor and this Parliament. I would like a bit of collegiality and also a little transparency and openness with regard to the interests of citizens. But you didn't answer a second question either. Finally, the question of post-liberalisation, full liberalisation, Mr Kopf, is not that you have to explain to us how technical innovations have gone. That we are behind the defenders of the post-coach technology, you can, I think, not accept. However, the key question is: What has been done in recent years to prepare this full-liberalisation to regulate it here in order to prepare a market so that not the close-to-state company or the former monopoly company is in considerable difficulties, especially in view of the fact that we have to expect more with many thousands of unemployed people next year – very sad! – if not everywhere? That is the central question, but you have not referred to it in any way. When words You're really up-to-date? When did you really deal with the situation of full-liberalization – now also as a source of guilt for your ministry? When did you take countermeasures? When have you considered international examples of how to break down or intelligently shape this liberalisation? To all of this, you have not lost a word, and that is unfortunate. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] Mr Kopf, this is more about the market than it is about market issues, but it is about infrastructure, and infrastructure has a lot to do with quality of life. They have always been the party as ÖVP, which has been, above all, against the removal of rural areas – post offices, local care, gender army posts – but this has obviously been a pure lip commitment. You have to think about how to strengthen rural areas, what role these service providers can play in the future – in an intelligent way, and not at an economic level. But this has unfortunately not been achieved in the form, and I am very, very sorry that you have not taken the opportunity to comment on it today. I would also like to ask you one question: why, in these conflicts that have arisen, you have always put yourself on the side of top management, why you have not even agreed that there have been serious misevaluations of management, both at the AUA and at the post office and at the ÖIAG, why there has been no clear idea of such misevaluations and also of the mis-economy in this area, why you are producing and not showing any criticism at all when it comes to restoring some confidence in the population. The confidence of the population in the economic elites is also severely shaken, and you should take that seriously. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, this loss of confidence also has its cause in the bank package, and you could have said something about it today, you could have made a statement on why there are no conditions here. Of course, the bank package also has a security function for deposits and, of course, for loans. Nevertheless, there is great misunderstanding as to why, unlike Germany, there is no limit of manager salaries to €500 000 – and that is truly enough in my opinion! – why no audit of the Court of Auditors is possible, no dividend distribution if you use this system. Why is this not possible with us? Here, too, you are on the wrong side, and that is why the population clearly feels: It's not about us, it's about something else. They would have had the opportunity to explain this to the people today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But you still have opportunities, and I am now turning to the new government for a little bit. The impression has arisen that the government protects banks, managers, speculators and board members such as Michaelis and Ötsch. Hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized investors, currently in serious difficulties as a result of this financial crisis, are still unprotected. This concerns not only hundreds of thousands of people, but also entire families, 20,000 who have invested in house building loans and who are still unprotected in this financial crisis. And here again, the question is why you do not take international examples and work with moratories, for example, and here protect and securely anchor precisely those who need them. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bitch.]] That in the financial market without training and without concession – and this is also addressed to the new Minister of Finance in Spee, who is not here right now, can be sold dangerous products to colleagues Pröll – and that this is also a consequence of a completely missing securities supervision law in 2007, one has to talk about it. [[Call the ÖVP: He's here!]] Here you have a chance, and we will set up an initiative here to introduce this one. There must no longer be this in this highly speculative area! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, you have also taken a last chance: Many people – and I also, Mr Faymann, Mr Faymann – are unscrupulous about these sums that we see here: €3 000 billion is being provided by the European Union for the saving of the banking system! This is essentially a radical financial capitalism, which now shows its face – with the worst effects: Profits are privatized, losses socialized. Why Give You do not have a little guidance here, as it must go on internationally, that you have to talk about a financial transaction tax, so that you can't continue so that there can no longer be this completely unbridled free movement, with dangerous so-called financial innovations that are no longer understandable? On the one hand, therefore, unemployment over this €3,000 billion and on the other hand the fact that €35 billion a year would be spent on fighting the world hunger! These are questions that we could have discussed today, and I am very sorry that you are not taking advantage of the relationship between you and us – and we are finally the representatives of the population – in other ways, that is, positive.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e6809	Next speaker: Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mag. Molterer. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e6832	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I would like to use the opportunity to deal with this urgent question to answer some of the questions raised in this debate. First: With many of these questions in the discussions I had the impression that there was a longing for the old times. Mr Strache, Mr Kickl, do you know what the old times have been in the ÖIAG? – That the taxpayers had to bring in € 4.3 billion, almost 60 billion schilling, to ÖIAG! [[Abg. Strache: You continue these ancient times!]] The result was then: 55 000 jobs less and a debt of €6.3 billion at the beginning of 2002. [[Abg. Kickl: These were your old times!]] Do you really want that? That can't be your goal! That is why it is true that it has been opposed, and that is what I am saying only in the middle of the order, not since 2000, but since 1994 the privatisation has been initiated. [[Abg. Strache: These are your old times! Your responsibility was that, not ours! That's what you're twisting!]] After all, €4.8 billion of privatisation revenues have been achieved between 1994 and 2000. With this continued privatisation after 2002, two things have succeeded: First of all, ÖIAG is free of debt today. It does not have €6.3 billion in debt, but is debt-free, and out of ÖIAG, dividends amounted to just under €1.2 billion in the budget in favour of the taxpayer. This is the future perspective, but not your vision of the past, Mr. Strache! It can't be. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: But the taxpayers haven't felt anything about it yet!]] Let us look at the companies in question. – Yes, it is true that we have made substantial changes at the post office, even in the light of the fact that we know that liberalisation is coming. And one of the key success of this truly strong company post is that we have managed to bring 49 percent of the shares of the post to the stock exchange in a stock exchange – there is, moreover, a high level of employee participation in the post – and the post today stands as a strong company. What is it about now? – That’s why we prepare the post – because we know that liberalisation is coming in the letter area – in good time. I felt it was irrational if management did not make any proposals in this situation. On the contrary: I asked management to make proposals for changes. If you or the company put the head in the sand, I know what happens in 2011: Then we have a liberalised letter market, but not an economically successful post. That is why we now have to set the course correctly. To this end, it is necessary that both post and policy become active in their respective areas of responsibility. Therefore, the post-market law, a changed universal service regulation and an industry collective agreement initiated by me together, turned out to be a call for a new post-market law by the middle of 2009, so that the post would have fair conditions in the liberalised market. – This is what you should do, instead of putting your hands in your lap and putting your head in the sand, otherwise the post will be bad for a long time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's what you've done in the last few months!]] We must also be quite open in the field of Austrian Airlines, and I am also very open today in the argument with you on this topic: Yes, we have tried – and I think, in common consensus – to present as long as possible a stand-alone solution for Austrian airlines. I was the first to say that in the early summer of this year – even in my responsibility – I do not see this stand-alone solution. [[Abg. Bucher: No! But not in the Court of Auditors' report!]] Therefore, in my responsibility as Minister of Finance, I was commissioned to examine alternatives to the stand-alone solution, and that was necessary and correct. [[Abg. Bucher: Two years too late!]] Ladies and gentlemen, on this basis, the “old Federal Government” – under quotation marks – has awarded a privatisation order, and on this basis the Austrian Airlines and ÖIAG bodies will now try to achieve this in the best possible way. I have informed the Committee this morning that there are two open questions: One is the European Commission's approval of the necessary €500 million, and the other is the legal discussion that Air France-KLM has. - That's where we have to give answers. To Telekom a very open word: We all want Deutsche Telekom to invest in broadband. But then we must also be on the economic framework for Deutsche Telekom, which will also allow it to make economic returns from which investment is made. And we have to ask the question: Is the regulator really well advised to pick up the last one instead of leaving something in the company? Then I think it is right that management with the workforce representatives also addresses this future perspective. It would be more fatal to me than to do in the area where we share responsibility as owners, as if it were not the forces of the market, but we must provide those economic and legal conditions that companies need in order to be strong in the future and to be able to deliver their services that employees and other people expect. [[Abg. Strache: The Lufthansa will be the wrong partner!]] It is similar in the banking sector. Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, I have been informed about the banking sector and the status of the bank package this morning – obviously this has not been discussed to you. First: Let us be glad that we are a member of the European Union, that we have the European Central Bank and the strong euro as a single currency. [[Abg. Strache: That we have to pay the damage today! That's great!]] This has helped us very much in this situation. We have presented a bank package and thank God also here in the House unanimously decided, which also gives banks the necessary stability, the necessary foundation and the necessary back strengthening. [[Abg. Strache: But the second step you promised is not there yet!]] We now have a discussion with the European Commission on two issues: Firstly, on the issue of dividends/rewarding of participation capital, and secondly on the issue of dividend distribution of institutions: Yes or no from institutions that use this. We have very clear conditions. It's just not true that we don't have any conditions! - That's wrong. It has been discussed in detail in the Committee today and is also presented by Mr Matznetter. There are, of course, also control possibilities in the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors, and we have also incorporated the corresponding control rights in the Treaties. I beg you It is therefore also in this context, in this context, that this common perspective, which we have started together, should also be shared in this phase critical of the Austrian economy. The question of the economic package has also been raised. I advocate a common European basis – as I do in the banking sector. The European Commission will present this European economic package tomorrow in its cornerstones. We have gone in this direction with what we have already done and with what the new Federal Government is doing – investment, for example, in the fields of research, the labour market, employment and infrastructure and discharge where it is necessary – for people who pay taxes, and for the families who need it very much. Therefore, this economic task will be as important as the question of securing, the security package for banks and the question of the perspective for companies in ÖIAG, which are particularly important for Austria. I therefore appeal at this point and from this point on to you that You will also take this path, as far as possible, on the part of the opposition in the sense of this common whole for our home country in a difficult economic situation. – The situation is really not easy, and it will not become easier in the next few months. It is therefore important that we put this common position in the foreground in this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, since this is my last appearance from the government bank as a finance minister, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank you for your very good cooperation. We've done a lot of work on it. [[Abg. It's enough! Really!]] I am thinking of the new budgetary law, which was unanimously adopted, of the financial market surveillance reform, which was largely carried out in consensus, of the banking package, which was unanimous, and of some others that were shared. This common spirit should move us. I shall now turn the pages to the extent that I am going to assume my responsibility as a Member of Parliament. I hope that in this responsibility as a Member of Parliament I can also make my small contribution. I would like to thank you for the good cooperation and joint successes in the last two years.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e7045	Ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with the five political groups, speaking time will be limited to 3 minutes each in the next two rounds, so that the speaking time is actually distributed fairly. Mr Themessl, you're next. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e7070	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen. You know, Mr Molterer and Mr Kopf, you are always so happy to beg in the past and take out examples of where you may have been successful in some areas. However, they were very thin sown. But stop it! We have been threatened for weeks by a world economic crisis that has arisen from a world financial crisis, and now it would be time to act. Mr Faymann, if you have said that we are only criticising, we are only rowing headlines together, and we are missing the proposals, then I ask you: Where have you been for the last two years, when our group has by far made most of the requests in this House and has also given a clear opinion on economic and tax policy issues, but also on the basis of examples and on the basis of requests that we have economic competence, which I very much agree with on the part of the SPÖ here? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Cap, if you are always quoting Mr Hannes Androsch, when it comes to economic issues in the House, then I have to give you the right to say: He's a good businessman. But as far as thousands of entrepreneurs outside now are concerned that they are liable with their personal property, this has never affected Mr Androsch, who has never been held liable, because he only lives on the promotions of the large industry, and he is doing very well; I do not doubt that. However, the many thousands of entrepreneurs are now waiting to receive a support credit to help them by strengthening domestic demand, purchasing power in this country in economically difficult times. But we're far away. That is why you are called upon to do something now! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Faymann, if you are talking about business packages and tax reforms, I am telling you that the economic billions, the so-called middle-sized billions you decided here 14 days ago, are fully beyond the target. Those for whom it was intended – the small and medium-sized enterprises, the individual companies, in order to support them – have absolutely nothing of it. To sell a tax reform of €2.7 billion as a success – with the family benefits already included – and at the same time to the largest Austrian bank, which is the first one for this bank aid package, to provide the same sum, is evidence that you have neither the appropriate far-sighted nor the serious situation as to how the economic situation could change and what this could mean for many thousands of jobs in Austria – and, of course, also for the small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr Novotny also called for the banks to be finally committed to comply with the promises they had made in the In the course of the negotiations on this bank package, loans should be released for small and medium-sized enterprises and for private individuals. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In order to give rise to this, I shall now put forward a motion for a resolution. You'll have the opportunity to carry it with us. [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e7145	Mr President, your speaking time has long passed. I left you with the request. [[In the case of the FPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Themessl.]] The application is submitted accordingly and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e7210	Mrs Csörgits is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e7232	Madam President. Appreciated members of the government on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! This urgent request is a good opportunity to say to all those who are affected by difficult situations at work that we do not abandon them, that the concerns of the workers lie at our heart and we do not suspend them from the arbitrariness of individual managers. Ladies and gentlemen, once you have to face up to what it means when Post employees mostly learn about the media that about 11,000 jobs are to be reduced! This means total uncertainty for many women and men, for many families, fear of the workplace, anxiety and perceptiveness. A management that has chosen this way, and not that of dealing with the interests of employees, can only be described as ice-cold management. It is almost cynical when Postdirector orphan still said at the profit fair in October that a higher basic dividend is to be distributed for the current financial year, and a few weeks later the workers are thrown into bottomless uncertainty. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Social democracy is fully behind the employees of Post and Telekom. These people didn't deserve such a deal! Especially these employees in the past have already had a lot to do with cuts and measures and still work day by day and do great work. I would like to thank the post staff from this point of view. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Works Council immediately acted excellently and put in place a variety of measures which it now wants to negotiate with the Management Board. What made me particularly concerned: The aim of the labour struggle is, among other things, to show that there must be a decent treatment and a fair relationship with the employees in the company. Ladies and gentlemen, entrepreneurs also have an obligation to care for their employees, and they have a duty to inform the Works Council. That's to be kept. The times of the body-owners and the lawless workers are over! In this context, I am particularly grateful to Mr Faymann for once suspending the post office closures by regulation until mid-2009. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Now it is necessary for entrepreneurs to put themselves on the table with the works councils in order to discuss and develop appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e7283	Mr Neugebauer has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e7305	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cap, in his speech, accompanied a replica of Mr Kickl's contribution to the fact that he was somewhat disappointed by the speech, but perhaps the text of the urgent question was more important. I was looking once. In order to remain on the subject of post, the request made by Mr Klubobmann Strache is as follows: ‘The government programme between SPÖ and ÖVP for the XXIV. GP does not contain any real reforms and does not in any way contain measures that are appropriate to solve the problems ahead.” There are then the ÖBB, the post quoted. [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's right!]] - Wait! [[Abg. That's right!]] What else you blame us for: There would be no consideration, and you can see in the paper “No problem-solving competence”. - So far, so good. [[Abg. Bitch: Title! Working Group! If I no longer know, I have a working group!]] The 68 questions do not prove that you are really dealing with the subject; I am right for Mr Faymann. Obviously, you are concerned about something other than the real debate, about important close-to-state businesses and, above all, the employees who are employed there. You are not obliged to read the government programme, but if you already make such claims, you would do well to do so, because in the Post Chapter there are very clear markings in it, such as the creation of the Post Market Act, with clear parameters as well as the comprehensive provision of rural areas. [[Abg. Strache: Mrs Thurnher confirmed it live yesterday!]] Liberalisation also recognises the potential danger. Of course, fair competition rules are needed when alternative suppliers enter the market. This, of course, also requires an increase in the competence of the post-senat. It is unfortunate that the management has so far failed to comply with the desire of the trade unions for an industry collective agreement. This federal government will do a little bit to help him. The preparations for this are available. There has been a lot of criticism that trade unionists, our colleagues, have almost reflected on the post. There is even the introduction of a popular desire “Stop the Post Robbery. ” I'd rather assume that the initial inflammation for this is a manco in communication. Management can not only invite the business representatives at Supervisory Board meetings – it is even obliged to do so. [[Abg. Street: Just before Christmas report 9,000 notices, don't you?]] But it would be good for them to discuss the development with colleagues early on, because the comprehensive provision is one thing, but the maintenance of employment is something else. For these intentions they therefore have our full sympathy.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e7423	Mr Scheibner has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e7444	Madam President. High house! It is already strange if government representatives blame Parliament and the opposition for lack of seriousness in this urgent question. In fact, you'd have had it in your hand! If you, Federal Minister Faymann, had made a report here, we would have had a good time – not in 3 minutes' speeches – to discuss the necessary issues relating to privatisation at Post and AUA. [[It was in favour of BZÖ and FPÖ, as well as of representatives of the Greens.]] So don't throw that before us! You're not worth speaking here in the high house. That's the problem! There would have been a lot to discuss. Mrs Csörgits, it is of course right that we should also support post workers accordingly. No one is right if he loses his job. However, this is not done by strange regulations prohibiting post-closure in a period in which no closure has been planned, but by sharing the post, which is naturally monopoly, – politics and management – to prepare for competition, in particular together with the works councils. That would be the hour's commandment. And it is said that Minister Faymann knew about these closure plans half a year ago. These would be interesting things we should discuss. Mrs Csörgits, I say to you: Yes, the post workers are important to us. They should be able to maintain their workplace as much as possible. However, the many tens of thousands of employees in the private sector are equally important to us. You do not discuss them, because they are in small and medium-sized enterprises with only one, two or ten employees who are now expecting to take care of them in the financial crisis. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] You have decided on a €100 billion bank package – which has been praised by the Minister again today – a €100 billion bank package of taxpayers' money. This will provide guarantees. What's the result? It is precisely those who, with their tax money, are liable for the pleas of the banks, for the speculators, that they now have to do their job in order to get credit. But they don't get it! Small and medium-sized enterprises still do not receive the loans they would need in order not to be able to deal with the problems they owe. I would like an active government to say that we are giving these guarantees and these liabilities, but we are also ensuring that this money is passed on to banks to carry out their tasks for the house-keepers, for small businesses, for the barbers, in order to give the small businesses really the support we expect from them. We would like to discuss this with you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] To increase purchasing power, Minister Faymann. – Yes, wonderful, that too is good and right and important. Only: Why didn't that happen? Remember: Before the election, we discussed direct payments to the population, heating aid. And this is also located in your area, for example, that in Vienna the energy companies have massively increased the prices of gas and electricity. This would be interesting – and not € 2 billion in tax reduction, but € 4 to € 6 billion, as the economic researchers also demanded. That is what we demand from an active government. None of this happened! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] But you will have to expect an active opposition that is not about the division of power in Austria, but only about the concerns of the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e7529	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e7551	Madam President. Federal Minister! If you already find time during the so-called negotiations to exchange letters, ask ten questions – from the other side – and they can also answer, then it is not likely that you will be too much required to answer the questions raised here too, namely when it comes to the interaction between Parliament and government. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] - But be it. You have not accepted the invitation to refuse the declaration. We will take up the issue again next week. And now I'm going to take out a point and get ahead of it. With regard to tax reduction and tax reform, exactly what is going on like a red thread is happening: The server operators enjoy the protection and more “the above”, as well as the bank rescue package. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, the taxpayers must...!]] Those who already earn so little – these are now more than 2 million people in Austria – do not receive any of this discharge at all, although they do not deserve the least. This is completely wrong for two reasons: Firstly, it is an increase in the gap of justice. Secondly, If you have been talking about employment and economic policy all the time now, I think it is the biggest sin there, because precisely these income groups would immediately put this relief back into private consumption, because they really need it because they, Mrs Fekter, even if you do not want to understand it, really need it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Should we burden the middle class even more?]] Hit You will follow in the publications and in the corresponding issues of the Economic Research Institute! You may not be so suspicious. That is the problem, because you do not properly recognize and understand the real crisis that is now breaking into the country and also globally. Too little learned or nothing learned! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... you have to pay taxes!]] If you do not do anything now, it will happen exactly that most people who really need it are unprotected, while you choose “protection shields” – which are called so – for banks that look the following: If you, Dr. Cap, are already trying the EU in connection with the banking package, then perhaps you should say that it is exactly the EU that has a very critical eye on Austria, because we are being caught again, or rather you, that in an unfair competition downside you are particularly favourable conditions for our banks, but to the detriment of our taxpayers! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. That's right! Don't promise!]] They misused our confidence when we agreed here in this area. That's why we're going to sharpen – already at the next meetings! We shall then see if the Court of Auditors is going to examine this. We'll just see if there's something like a ban that banks that enjoy billions of public capital increase are going on a shopping tour with this money, like perhaps the Raiffeisen Group, which today decides to raise 2 billion € in capital, might also get it and then buy public companies, like the ORF. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Speculate in East Businesses!]] It can't come that far, you can take poison on it! Mr Vice-Chancellor in Spe, even if You may be too close to Raiffeisen, we will see that you are serving the Republic and not your Raiffeisen Group! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e7679	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e7703	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies, we don't have one on the government bank! High house! First of all, I would like to table the following motion for a resolution by the Liberal and Reformist Party: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's good!]] Mr Faymann, ladies and gentlemen of the coming new coalition, I do not know in which real world You're thinking of being there. They shook the opposition because it is opposition, you expect the opposition to vote in praise. [[Abg. There's something going on!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] But it would be nice if there were causes for praises. This is not available – quite the contrary! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Is it not true that something is conjured over and over again, namely stability, fact-orientedness – and which vocabulary still fits in there? And in a time when there was no coalition, no coalition agreements, this House has negotiated and decided within a week a complex bank package. That is to say, it does not need the so-called stability programme of a newly imposed government of minorities in that country in order to become State-bearing effective. The only question is whether we can see a future-oriented perspective that the trust given by the highest institutions in the competent ministers is misused or justified. However, it must not be possible for the small and medium-sized enterprises in need to be taken into account in the protection sign of the bank package, the house-keepers and also the people who have taken a foreign currency credit to be taken into account, the necessary loans are not given to them and the country's actual tax-bearing class is once again threatened with dehydration. Because these are the ones that provide the tax benefits, and not the managers that you exchange according to color teaching. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e7784	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e7841	The next item is the speech by Mr Katzian. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e7864	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I was actually preparing for a debate on infrastructure and close-to-state operations. So it was invited to this special meeting today. I assume that this is also the reason why a number of board members of the Austrian Airlines have come here today and look at this debate on the ground. Dear friends of AUA, I would like to tell you that I hope – and I believe you have considered the debate well – that you have also heard who is taking a political show here and who is really about doing something for the employees of the Austrian Airlines. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Thank you for the advertising!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Rarely so “fleet”!]] Mr Kickl and others, who are now a little angry with foam in front of the mouth! I would like to say to you: What you subtract here and what you have given of yourself here today shows that you are already quite afraid of the performance that has been shown in recent days. [[Abg. Strache: You are a symbol of this “new performance”!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] If you do not make concrete proposals solely about yourself, do not contribute to what helps people in these close-to-state businesses, and here you take off a politic show that seeks the same, if not only nothing is passed on, but you discredit yourself by the kind of self, then put yourself in the corner. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: What? What are you doing? What?]] Dear Mr. Kickl, you can learn this in the course Rhetoric I: If someone hits you as much as you do, he must already be quite afraid of the things that seem to come on one. Take note of the following: We are doing everything and doing everything we can to support the Austrian Airlines colleagues. What we need, in concrete terms, are measures that are now taking place, namely discussions and negotiations between the Management and the Works Council. The works councils, the employees still do not know how to proceed in detail. It is now about also talking about culture within the ÖIAG. It can't be that in the ÖIAG, in reality, there is no talk with the employees' representatives and that every time we have to get a meeting date with strike-and-roar. It is a matter of keeping up with the workforce in a concrete and proper manner. And it is about developing concepts for the future at an eye-to-face level with the works councils. That's what's at the center. That's what we want to support, and that's what needs to be changed in the ÖIAG in the near future. Because, as has been done so far, it cannot go on from my point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e7969	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e7992	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Stache: Finally, a minister takes care of himself! Bravo!]] Of course, it is not to be expected that the opposition will sing praises today – as Mr Fichtenbauer correctly noted. But I would have expected the opposition to submit alternative suggestions for improvement. I missed it. [[Abg. Strache: Did you not listen?]] [[Abg. Weinzinger: Three applications!]] You always qualify, Mr. Strache. They make reviews without facts and without arguments. And that's not really coherent in itself. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] As far as I think it was clear and addressed... – Well, with you it was also very careful, I have to say as far as the applause is concerned. [[Abg. It does not even clap its own political group!]] That was a tired story. [[Abg. I'm sorry. The group has already slammed! Not with you!]] As far as the production sector is concerned, I believe that the evidence in recent years was clearly that it was right to privatize. It has already been mentioned what happened with the debt repayment at the ÖIAG. That was very successful. What has not been mentioned and what was also very important is that a capital market has only developed with the privatisation of the former national lights. Many small and medium-sized enterprises have benefited from this. Thus, economic development in Austria was possible in good structures. I'd say a good way. This was the case with the production plants. The second area is general provision. In this area, it is important to make the guarantee of performance correct. For the question of whether I act privately or with public ownership is actually not really crucial, I would say, but rather to the public, how, for example, the performance in the smallest community is regulated in the postal sector. [[Abg. Strache: What does the citizen have of it! That's right!]] There we are, I believe, agreed. If we now implement this in the form and ask how the performance is regulated, the following is to be found: If you no longer have a monopoly at the post office from 2011, you will probably not be able to manage the operation with officials. Then you won't be able to act cheaply. That is why it is right to seek solutions here. And I see a problem solution in the post partners, for example. It's a franchise system that works. We already have 200 farms; half of them are small businesses doing this. And you know, The social centre in a community has long since been no longer in the post office, but in the traffic, in the small travel agency – wherever. I believe that this is a successful way of doing this, which is also to continue. In other words, it needs another framework condition: That's the post-universal service order. Another thing: We should also allow the other establishments free access to the market. It is not said in the future that no one else can perform the performance better. There are already many farms that are preparing for it. That is why: quite a competition! This will benefit the citizen, which will benefit the taxpayer. It's about the right environment. This also applies to cross-board stories you have addressed. This should not simply be prohibited, but on the other hand, one must also know that there is a risk. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] - I'm coming to my conclusion. I think we have the right conditions everywhere in the public sector. It is up to management to use the framework conditions together with the employees.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e8107	Mr Hagen has now come to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e8128	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Dear High House! Mr Mitterlehner has just said a sentence which can only be noted: Insight is the first way to improve. – He meant: As far as he can say, the next Federal Government must do better with the ÖIAG. That is, the Federal Chancellor in Spee has failed here. – words a coalition partner. Great! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is sad that the opposition has to resort to such means, namely to convene a special meeting in order to prepare for the government the work that it should have done. [[Call the BZÖ:Fearable!]] I don't think that's the way it should go. My colleague, Mr Cap, made it clear earlier that the colleagues of the opposition are not doing a common cause here or leaving something at the clap. I think your new coalition is fighting again. I have hardly seen applause here from the ÖVP when a SPÖ member spoke, or vice versa. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: That's nothing new!]] You can say everything in everything: Wherever this federal government has had its fingers in the game – you can see that at ÖIAG, Post, AUA, Telekom, no matter where –, everywhere are panic and chaos, there are problems that can no longer be dealt with anymore or hardly any more. I think that this government has forgotten to put action before loud disputes, and has been so busy in the fight that it has totally overlooked post-liberalisation for 2011. The fact is that thousands of workers have stayed on the track: around 9 000 jobs at the post office, 2 500 at Telekom. In the AUA, 5 000 jobs are under massive threat. The effects are also clear: If today a postal officer goes to the bank and wants to have a credit for building a house, he does not get it because one says that one does not know whether he will still have a job in the future. - And these are facts. Ladies and gentlemen, before the speaking time is over, I would like to make the following request quickly: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have an interesting thing to tell you. Mr. Fritz of the FSG, the post-union trade union, has been hard to get to the barricades because the ÖIAG wants to save jobs at the post office. If one now sees that this gentleman is also sitting in the ÖIAG Supervisory Board, then this is very questionable.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e8224	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e8294	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e8315	Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, here in the National Council and at home in front of the television screens! Mr Faymann, unfortunately I must say: They direct it to the big ones and allow it at the expense of the little ones. This is the case with the tax reform, which is the case with the bank package, which is the case with the business package. You have mentioned this today: € 900 million will be invested in the coming years. – But my problem is: The work intensity of tunnel construction, the asphalting of motorways is much, much lower than that of which people really benefit, namely in thermal insulation, building renovation et cetera. Mr Minister, you are directing it to the great at the expense of the small ones in the banking sector. We've heard, the house builder credits are getting beating for fifty families, for thousands of people. And what is being provided as a screen for the banks must be provided to the small borrowers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister, the state-in-state establishments all have a government commissioner, a responsible person also from the Federal Ministry of Transport, from your ministry. And you watched and they looked at how on the one hand more and more dividends went from the side of the post to the cash registers of the Ministry of Finance and on the other hand were saved, saved and saved! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] I'm giving you today the list of these savings. It is so long that I need a whole role, namely the post offices that have been saved since 2000. Minister, please! [[The speaker gives Federal Minister Faymann a role on which the postal offices in question are listed and begins to roll them out.]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] [[State Secretary Dr. Matznetter: This is a little bit of a big text, Mrs. Colleague! If you had printed it normally, it would have gone on two sheets!]] [[Abg. Strache: With us in the urgent, that is all mentioned! All listed!]] That goes, I think, far beyond the seats of the staff members of the Stenographical Protocol. I'm saving myself the rollout. You can try it at home. Minister Faymann, you knew about it. Only: This list of post offices has, as it were, three colours: Black – always the ÖVP was involved – and the colours blue and orange. It was blue and orange transport ministers who had to answer the current Universal Service Regulation. You, Mr Verkehrsminister, have not amended this Universal Service Regulation, which is why this list also bears the color red. Mr Faymann, you knew there was a real danger. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] You said today: Yes, we do something in the first half of 2009! Please, until then another 25 post offices are closed. Minister, try buying yourself a postage stamp! They don't get them in the traffic, but they have to go to a post office. And try this once in Bregenz! In Bregenz, a state capital, there are two post offices, Mr. Minister. There you have to go to buy stamps, because elsewhere they don't exist; maybe in a tourist shop, but normally that's not usual. So that's not regular at all. The problem is, above all, the following: Post-service or post-partner replacements cover up to 46 percent of the original post offices. There is a study – Mr Pröll has commissioned her; you have to look at them! – where, according to a survey by the Institute for Miners, it is shown that rural areas have been systematically diluted in the area of postal service services. There is no replacement for post offices in 46 percent of cases, for example in Upper Austria. In Lower Austria, the replacement rate is a little higher, but in Upper Austria, we are really seriously affected by this far-reaching ballast policy at national level. Finally, the example of how you judge it for the great: What does a post-manager get in Carinthia at the middle management level? – He gets 9 000 € gross 14 times a year, 34 000 € target award per year, service car class Audi A6. That is what you are responsible for, Minister Faymann! We need to make policy for the small people who are affected.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e8397	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Hofer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e8419	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! But I also wonder: What has Mr Landesrat Anschober done in Upper Austria against the post office closures in Upper Austria? – Probably not too much, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Right ahead because the employees of the AUA have been addressed: I wonder how Mr. Katzian feels – where is he? Not here! – when he makes himself here and says that the SPÖ is the one who is behind and supports the employees of the AUA. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my knowledge that the SPÖ does not have an insignificant influence on the ÖIAG – together with the ÖVP – and therefore it would be quite possible to stop this rather strange sale or this rather strange sale process. But she does not, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. That's why I'm saying: We must measure your actions, Mr Katzian. We are also for the privatisation of Austrian airlines. Very well! But we are in favour of the public hand holding a block-minority to this company, because it is in the interest of the Republic of Austria and the Austrian taxpayer that this parade company puts the interests of the domestic economy in the foreground. Therefore, I am particularly sorry that now the impression is that the AUA would actually be a shame to Austria and not the parade company that we were all so proud of together. When we flew out of vacation, we were happy when we got into an aircraft of AUA and were greeted there. It was a piece of home. This is still a piece of home, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore it is important not to sell the AUA under current conditions. It can't be that in a sale procedure, we still put €500 million on as a morning gift. And now it always says: For God's sake, the AUA has a billion € debt! Federal Minister Faymann, you will know: In 2001, the debt of Austrian Airlines was still much higher, and at that time they amounted to €2 billion. In other words, this company has reduced half of its debt in seven years. This company has survived in contrast to Swissair because of its excellent staff “9/11”. That is to say, this sub- Take is healthy! There is therefore no reason for an emergency sale at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If Dr. Gugerbauer, who will remember many here in the house, says that a debt cover is not possible by European law, but it is possible to raise capital, I suggest: Yes, then we make a capital increase at the AUA, but we don't sell the company at the moment, but we'll make sure that the AUA – in calmer water, it's hard to say here – comes in calmer air, so to speak, so that we can achieve a decent sales revenue! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What are the measures we need to take in order to get AUA in calmer air, so to speak? Or: What has been done wrong? The stand-alone solution has already been addressed. There is an opinion that Mr Michaelis and Mr Ötsch have known, and that is in the drawer of Mr Michaelis for two years. That's what it said: A stand-alone solution is not good for the company at this time! Nevertheless, one has stuck on this path. Then you have a truly incredible fleet policy: AUA has 100 aircraft from five manufacturers. It's six guys. Such planes cause enormous basic costs, because for each aircraft type you have to have a spare part bearing. A engine van from a Pratt & Whitney engine from a CFMI plant costs as much as a small car. And when a bird flies into the engine, when one has bad luck, three shovels are broken at the front. All of this has to be taken into account! Ladies and gentlemen, the AUA fleet must be harmonised. The average age of aircraft is eight years. That is to say, one can harmonise this fleet very, very quickly. We have - and I have to say this - found that interested parties from Austria have not been heard in this sale procedure. There is a company from Austria with 400 employees with a number of aircraft, and it would have been interested in the AUA. In the office of Federal Minister Faymann, the managing director of this company has at least been heard by one employee, while in the office of the Federal Minister Molterer on the phone said to this gentleman that politics does not interfere in the sale of AUA. He laughed heartily. But unfortunately, it hurts AUA if you don't even address such interested parties, they don't even get an appointment. This managing director has also reported to Mr Michaelis, but there has been no date for him. That is exactly the wrong way to deal with it, which will ultimately cost us a lot! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying the following: [[Quoted print version removed]] In terms of personnel restructuring, I do not mean the small staff, but the many Vice-Presidents and the many department heads – there are more than 20 at the AUA – who share a floor, but only six toilet facilities. We need to start and see that a reasonable, a good staff policy is being made here! The last point, which is very important to me: I really wish that Mr. Michaelis and Mr. Ötsch would clear their armchairs as soon as possible and not get a golden handshake, for this has not deserved these reigns!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e8535	Mr Van den Broek, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e8593	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e8618	Mr President. Mr Hofer claimed here that the Upper Austrian Councillor Rudi Anschhober had done nothing against the barrage of the post offices. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is not an actual correction!]] It's true, that's the 11th. In November 2008, at the initiative of Landesrat Anschober, a resolution was written by the Upper Austrian government, in which one opposes the call of the post offices and where it is said that one also wants to extend the supply order to private service providers in particular. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] - As far as the corrective position is concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e8658	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies Ing. Gartlehner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e8680	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! If you read this urgent request from the FPÖ, you have to say: It is really a paradigm change that FPÖ has carried out in recent years. When I remember: In 2000, a change of government was carried out, and freedom ministers, as it were, began their work of the day. There were very many different. It was a slightly voodotyped occurrence: Almost every month there was a new minister. You brought the post as an IPO to the stock exchange during this time. They have done other things in the liberalisation sector, which were logically a little problematic, because a shareholder's value is relatively poorly compatible with an official's structure, which eventually led to problems that were just postponed. I remember very well: The first gift was early retirements to a large extent – in my region a free forwarder with 43 in early retirement was sent, he still turns very violent and good today – and, and, and, and. The former buffeters at Post and Bahn, the youthful age through Their activities have been retired, drive at very cheap rates today, they have taken away the job from other boutiques. – So these were the activities I remember from your time. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Nothing has been reversed!]] If I read this request today, I notice that you have partially written off our Hainburg party program. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Hainfeld! Lower Austria!]] These demands are so fundamentalistic and anti-capitalistic today. That's really very, very nice! I would like to say a few words on the subject of 'unfit government', gentlemen. I think you have or your ministers have not acted differently in the telecommunications sector. We see very clear expansion plans on 25 megabits in this government programme at least across the board. This is an activity that must have been in use years ago, but no one has invested in it at that time. We see the ÖBB in the programme very, very clear reform measures to end the chaos, the liberal and BZÖ ministers at the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darmann.]] I believe that in the next few years, due to this financial crisis, which has taken place from FED and from American politics, it is necessary for policy to take very offensive legislative measures in order to present innovations in the real economy in a timely manner. [[Abg. May. Darmann: All the federal states are sumptuous – except for Carinthia!]] I am thinking specifically of a measure taken by an Austrian government in the mid-1990s. At that time, the California waste legislation was adopted in Austria. I think it would be very good, at this time of crisis in the automotive sector, to have an innovation boost here again. Or I also think of a ban on light bulbs and their replacement with LED technology. Austrian companies are technologically leading in this market, but there is currently no legal obligation to advance this reform process. Finally, I would like to say that today almost every speaker has presented his own motion for a resolution, many of which are very interesting. However, we have not yet seen it, it has only been read to us the short form. That is why we will not be able to accept these requests today, but are quite willing to talk to you about one or another who seems interesting to us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e8765	Mr Rädler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e8786	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Verkehrsminister! Mrs Moser, these lists, which you submit to the Minister for Transport, do not irritate me at all; nor is it whether Mr Verkehrsminister was informed in February of the economic problems of the postal service. Rather, the speech by Mrs Csörgits, who is a trade unionist, is annoying the board of directors and managing, wants to wash himself in, and actually forgets that Mr. Wais has been a cabinet member of Mr. Staribacher for more than seven years, that he is a SPÖ member and actually one of you. You can't wash yourself in there, you can't remove yourself from responsibility, that's not easy! We have a responsibility to the employees, namely to the 23 000 post workers. 1 000 of them go through natural or golden handshakes every year. And 9 000 learn that they are being terminated! And we're going to sit down and say, Well, these are the board of directors and the managers, we have nothing to do with that at all. The employees have the right to learn how to proceed with them. As a social-democratic party, I believe that just before Christmas we should show more honesty to the employees in this social environment. The second thing addressed today is the mayors and their responsibility. We certainly do not steal from responsibility. I was only very surprised when, in the early days of the media, I learned from the radio that the communities are now getting sayful rights, Minister. That's what I'm looking forward to. We mayors, however, cannot prevent our post office from being closed. I also have a completely different access to it. If we know that we have to close 1,000 of the 1 300 post offices by 2015, and if Mr. Strache has said today that he too is clear – it is in your written request, read it through, it stands inside! – that some post office or post office must be closed, that it is not possible to maintain all of them – you even demand state subsidies, that is also inside – then, I think, we all know that something is to be done to maintain these services specifically for rural areas in the future! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We know that!]] We can't steal from that responsibility! All we have to do is change the entrances. [[Abg. That's right!]] Now these are all promises according to the announced radical cuts when we go here and say: No one will be terminated until June 2009 and no branch will be detained either. But what's after 2009? We need to look at the facts! Let's have an international look at the experiences! As mayor, I think that if a post office is to be closed, we have to look at alternatives. If there are 93 percent postal service providers in the Federal Republic of Germany and there is the possibility throughout Europe, even in Norway, of maintaining the supply even in rural areas, then we will consider this. We know 200 such post partners all over Austria. The country of Lower Austria, for example, gave €7 000 at the start of these post-partners. Now thanks be to God also the post and say that we give €800 for the IT lines, for this stand line every year, we give €3,000 for quality assurance. That's a way we don't need to be afraid of. 50 percent of these postal service providers are small close-up suppliers who may even be able to do this better, who have longer opening hours. We can still expect 10 to 20 percent increase in sales for the small local supplier. That means that we should really deal with the future in this context. We're in the competition, and the mail can't be excluded either. There is, however, something we demand from the government. I am very glad that the new government acknowledges this, and we have also written it into the coalition agreement; You could have read this in this government agreement, Mr. Strache. It is on the subject of consumer protection that we want, for these services, for these postal partners, a funding rail, whatever will come. That is why I am very confident. [[Abg. Street: How and when?]] However, I certainly also demand from the Federal Government – and this is very concrete in the coalition agreement – that we finally create the prerequisite for ensuring competitiveness here with a postal law, with a universal service regulation. And what is particularly dear to me for the social side, dear friends of the Social Democratic Group: We need an industry collective agreement! We need it not only in terms of the competitiveness of the post, but also in terms of social security for those people who travel in the other service sectors, not at the post office, but where, in fact, the collective contract – and thus the post is not competitive – rewards are carried out. I am very confident that the new Federal Government will do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e8858	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e8879	Mr President. High house! We've brought it far to the AUA. The AUA is not only pleading, but also needs a co-donation of €500 million to find a buyer at all. I didn't know that the AUA was so ugly that it needed a co-donation of 500 million to find a groom. If this is an unnecessarily needed one, it would have to be relatively surprising for him: The AUA, an Austrian parade company, is suddenly pleading. How could that happen? – For a simple observer, this has really come very surprising. For someone who knows the AUA, however, this is not surprising at all. It was so in the past that politics in the AUA has always been firmly co-ruled. At times when there was no competition, it didn't matter. People deserved better, the posts were better occupied, and that didn't matter. The prices have also been dictated. Meanwhile, the thing looks something different: There's competition. This competition is getting worse and worse. The oil price has also not developed positively, at least in recent years. Now everyone says: For God's sake, AUA is pleading! Finally, however, it was many years ago. One has saved the AUA with massive sales of aircraft, with the resolution of reserves over time. One has always worked on a stand-alone solution, and it was clear at the time that a stand-alone solution cannot work. The AUA needed a partner years ago, but that was not what politics wanted. And now we're in this mess. Finally, an Austrian parade company is donated to abroad, to a Lufthansa, which at the same time as the AUA has made 100 million € loss per year, has made beautiful profits. This has to be thought of by politics. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The policy must be limited to making framework conditions that make sense for the benefit of Austria and not just a company to ultimately trigger a disaster, as we see at the AUA and will probably see at the post office. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] These connections between the capitals of the state and Vienna are extremely important for the economy and for the companies, but also for the airport Vienna. What happens if Lufthansa moves the transfer place to Munich or another city? Then Vienna Airport will lose a lot of business, and this will be a major damage to Austria in the long term. In conclusion: Policy must create framework conditions that are reasonable in the sense of Austria, but otherwise it must stand out from economic considerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e8954	Mr Van den Broek, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I The motion for a resolution tabled by Lugar is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e9019	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Honey. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e9040	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am concerned, and I think I share this concern with many people in this country and also with many of you here in this house. [[Call the BZÖ:We too!]] But what I have heard here today is unfortunately not calming me down, quite the contrary. It is rather true that I am becoming increasingly clear that we have a real problem, a core problem: In the organisational sense, it is about a leadership failure, with all that we have had to observe and debate today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What does it mean to lead responsibly? That is to see problems, to develop goals, to take the necessary measures and then to see if the whole has worked to evaluate it. I'm wondering, What have you done, ladies and gentlemen, of the government, or, Mr Minister, with the care to be expected? Let's look at this at the post office: We already know that long-term strategies are not entirely yours, but why did you not then take advantage of the possibility to implement the deadline set by the year 2013? Why didn't you use this extension? That's a leadership failure! So now we have less time to prepare, but instead of immediately becoming active, rely on the strategy: Let's see. Let's see. But even here we are already in the phase of “we see already. ” We already see very clearly the effects of liberalisation on the postal market, especially for those employed there. We already see that in private parcel suppliers, Scheinselbährte is hoisting people without any protection by appointment from one order to the other. We'll see. But does this observation immediately follow an action? - No, she doesn't follow. Have you, as in Germany, made sure that we have a licensing procedure that implies that licences are granted only if certain minimum standards regarding employment conditions are complied with? No, you don't. It's nice when you nod, but nothing happened! [[Federal Minister Faymann: But it is only 2011!]] You also know exactly that there is this possibility. In the corresponding EU Postal Directive you have the opportunity to introduce something like a social clause, but nothing has happened until now. I'm in the middle of leadership failure. Look instead However, as Post AG practices competition in its own subsidiary, Feibra, such as liberalised market conditions, namely wage and social dumping, which takes place there. You know, the feibra is almost exclusively a barber worker, who is unprotected wage-earners. I think, Minister, that you could and should have done a lot already! Such an authorisation procedure would be to be prepared once where minimum employment standards are laid down. They could have been involved in the fact that we are finally making the necessary redefinition of the employee concept, which significantly complicates precisely these many disinheritances. We could have had a legal minimum wage of €1,000 net for a long time, as we demand. The industry collective agreement with a minimum wage of €840 net is really not the big throw. By the way, an industry collective agreement does not help us when it comes to dealing with barter-resistances. Mr Minister, all this is worrying to me, which unfortunately has not been calmed down today. I'll tell you: That's really not how it goes!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e9108	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Haider. The rest of your group's speaking time is 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e9129	Mr President. High house! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Federal Minister Faymann, I brought something with me today. [[The speaker places a yellow package on the speaker's desk.]] Because for the 24th. Speaking on the speaker list, it is not so easy to bring something new in content, even in view of the many words we have heard here today. When we talk about word aid: I will also say a few words to the government programme. I'm not going to try this comparison with Santa Claus. It is not a gift for the “Faynachtsmann”, it is a gift as I think the Austrians would wish. It's Christmas in a month. The Austrians have become a very, very modest people, they have no great desire at all for the new Federal Government and for the now still Minister of Infrastructure and Federal Chancellor. They don't want anything impossible. They just want the post not to release 9 000 people. You don't want post 1 300 post offices to close. They don't want it to be the way it was in the past that the mailbox in the community is first disassembled and then the post office is closed. [[The speaker takes a phone from that package and puts it on the speaker's desk.]] They would like to see no redundancies of 500, not 1 250 or 3 000 employees, even though almost half a billion euros will be generated. On the contrary, you wish for a fiber optic offensive, an extension. And if we talk about it, the Austrians wish that this national suspension sign of Austrian Airlines will not be donated to Lufthansa with a 500 million grant. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[The speaker takes a model of an AUA aircraft from the above package and puts it on the speaker's desk.]] For what comes out of it, we see the example of the Swiss Air, which was also taken over by the Lufthansa: Zurich Airport is starved in favour of Munich Airport. The same thing will happen with Vienna-Swechat. And what this means for the airport Vienna-Schwechat and the Eastern European destinations of the AUA and for the Eastern Europe business of our local entrepreneurs, I do not dare to imagine. Mr Faymann, Federal Chancellor in Spe, do something! No lip recognition like that of Mr Katzian! Make sure that the mail will bring something to everyone in the future! Make sure that Deutsche Telekom can be hard on the wire even in the future! Make sure that our “Friendly Airline” doesn’t leave the air in the future! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, since I am no longer in time for further remarks – especially on the topics of research and teaching – I am not going to make the following motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: "The aim of public and private investment is to increase the budgets for the tertiary education sector to 2% of GDP from 2009 to 2020 at the latest – which is an annual increase of at least 200 million. € additional. The global budget of universities is therefore expected to be around 800 million in 2009, 400 in 2010 and 600 in 2011, and 800 million in 2012 compared to the 2008 budget. € to be increased. The support relationship between teachers and students is to be improved and new attractive offers for working students, such as part-time and e-learning, are to be established. Measures should be taken to increase the quality of teaching and research, as well as to minimise long study periods and dropouts.”
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e9240	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haider is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e9313	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e9334	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate shows that Post, Telekom and AUA are very controversial issues. I have been here on the speaker's floor many times and have also discussed in the Committee on Petitions how to proceed with the post in Austria, and today I would like to make it quite clear that we all did not believe at that time that the post-partnership can work, that this can work with the country's suppliers. I think one thing can be said quite clearly – I have a constituency with 104 communities, and I have no complaints in this regard –: The mail, every letter is delivered today to the last corner of the country. And that is, as I mean, the decisive thing that everyone is served the same way and that everyone can use this service. For this, I would also like to thank all the post-partners as well as the country producers who do good work every day – that is not always criticized. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, it is the case that each one of us wants to make cheap calls, and I do not want to ask in this circle how many have already ordered their fixed network and turned into a cheaper provider. Yes, that's reality, and we have to take note of that: Everyone wants to communicate quickly, each of us and everyone in economic life wants to have a manageable infrastructure – and there cannot be everything as it is, but there is a need for new and courageous ways. It doesn't make any sense that we're going to take something into each other's mind now. The new government programme clearly states that there will be a new postal market law, as well as a new telecommunications law. This is about how we can create the necessary framework conditions and use the best possible time by 2011 in order to cope well with the time after a complete liberalisation of these areas. That is exactly what the challenge is, and I believe that we are all required and hard to do. And I also ask you, new Chancellor Faymann, to make massive efforts to do so. It is about a lot, about 9,700 people who are currently employed in Deutsche Telekom, and it is about 25,000 employees at the post office. The issue is that the capacity of these employees is used in a meaningful way, and there and there, it needs incisive measures. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of remaining competitive and of creating proper, reliable, fair and reasonable conditions as political representatives. And it's also about looking at the management a little bit more on your fingers there and there. In this sense: We don't want a "cash" or a stock crash. The post is a listed company, and if there are dividends, all of us can be right. But to think about how to do better, we should have the courage to do so, because only in this way all these companies – Post and Telekom – have opportunities in the future. It's up to all of us, which framework conditions we create, so that services can be provided in the best quality in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e9385	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 3 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit; the remaining speaking time Your group is 8 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e9407	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The financial crisis that has hit all over the world, up to an economic crisis, to a decline in the Austrian economy: No one knows how far this will go and whether a recession will follow it or not. In my view, above all, the question arises of who is responsible for the fact that, during the time of economic downturn in so-called semi-state companies, the crisis mood is still being fuelled, as is the case with the AUA, the Post and the Telekom. In all these companies, there is only more talk about personnel savings, but no one talks about the quality of management! Managers, who only close businesses and cancel employees, we can save ourselves, we don't need them! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the other hand, we ask for smart and innovative ideas of management, which we need in the future – but we do not need managers who, even on a commission basis, release employees and also deposit large amounts of money for them! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Record profits from the past should also be divided into those who have generated them and created the conditions for them, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I am also concerned about statements by certain “capazunders” in Austria, such as those of the President of the Industrial Union, Veit Worger, who does not think anything else but that workers should give up on 25 percent of their wages! – This is just a distribution policy madness! This may benefit those companies that are export-oriented, but not the internal economy, not the purchasing power! That would go completely by the way! Because of such statements from these people, I'm really worried. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The new Federal Government will be just too strong with social partners – and one must also say that unfortunately the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Leitl, blows into the same horn, which is a13. 14th and 14th. Introduce salary for entrepreneurs but want to save workers. The president of the Chamber of Labour, Tumpel, did not find anything better in the “press hour” last Sunday; neither did he have any solutions, no forward-looking ideas. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Tumpel has not said anything about how the labour force is to be taxed and that people should receive more net. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, even labour market policies have not been put in place. And the new Federal Government is planning to spend only €75 million more on labour market policy, i.e. 1.5 percent of the expenditure budgeted for 2008. The labour market situation is also totally underestimated by the new Federal Government! For this reason, I now put forward the following motion for a resolution by Mr Bucher, Mr Dolinschek, Mr Ursula Haubner and others on the rapid implementation of an employment programme: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to develop an employment programme for the duration of the forthcoming economic crisis to ensure employment and economic location in Austria, to submit to the National Council, as soon as possible, the relevant legislative proposals and to prepare for the rapid implementation of the following measures: significantly higher dosage of active labour market policies over the next two years; creating new opportunities for job maintenance in temporary times of crisis; the introduction of an extension facility for short-time work; promote a more market and quality-oriented high-quality education and training within the meaning of lifelong learning, in particular during unemployment and in the use of periods of reduced working volumes; increased education for re-privileged people; ensuring high-quality vocational training for young people in the labour market; further improve the quality of AMS services for job-seekers and Maintain the necessary measures to protect the Austrian labour market.’; Ladies and gentlemen, if you agree with these proposals, please also accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e9535	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dolinschek is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e9633	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. 3 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit; the remaining speaking time Your group is 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e9655	Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that all of you know that this is the last day or the last opportunity that Alfred Gusenbauer is in Parliament as Chancellor. I was surprised that the SPÖ club refused to say goodbye to him in this context. I say for myself and for my group – and I do not want to focus on the two chancellor years of Gusenbauer, but only on one: If Alfred Gusenbauer had led his party under 30 percent in a National Council election, Alfred Gusenbauer would have returned from government negotiations without even a sign of a fresh start in the issues of social justice and education to the centre of the party, he would have sacrificed everything in the sense of ÖVP from the financial transaction tax to the wealth tax and would have, in addition to the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, even if Alfred Gusenbauer had been prepared a "hot" reception in Löwelstraße. I don't think he'd survived this politically. – At Werner Faymann, however, the SPÖ celebrates this as a restart! [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ, it is important for this type of “restart” not to forget the parachute. Please inform yourself in time where the line is, because you will use it at Werner Faymann! - That's one. Secondly, and there it becomes even more serious: My previous speakers pointed out that many people in Austria in the financial and economic crisis need the protection of politics. The managers, the speculators, the bank directors, the ÖIAG board of directors, the AUA board of directors, they all enjoy the protection of Josef Pröll and Werner Faymann, but the small investors who now, in part, lose their entire savings, the house builders, whose They are ruined, whose foreign currency credits are converted, which must fear that their homes will be auctioned and at the end possibly the private bankruptcy, all of them have not yet received the slightest signal of protection from the Federal Government, neither from the old nor from the new. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] At the last plenary session of the National Council, we have tabled a request for a moratorium for the domestic farmers – and that is 20 000 to 30 000 households affected – to be decided here in the National Council. But SPÖ and ÖVP have rejected this. We will bring this moratorium next week, at the next meeting, to the meeting on the declaration of government for a second time. I'm very excited if there's someone in the SPÖ, but also in the ÖVP, who says: At least part of the protection that we offer to the speculators, banks and board members today, at least a little of this protection, will also be expected by the government by the people who have become victims of the financial crisis without their own fault. The I also expect, if we make the request, to remove the financial service assistant, that is, the fund issuer, the stock cellar with the level of training of a Maronibrater and with the sense of responsibility of a speculating banker, from the Securities Supervisory Act, in order to protect the people in Austria from dubious pyramid games by companies such as AWD and others. There's now about a hundred thousand people. And the total damage may be 1 billion € at an institution alone. I emphasize: 1 billion €, the simple people who have worked and saved decently today may have lost or already lost! No one in the government is protecting them! Mr Pröll and Mr Faymann have found no word for her. All applications for their protection have so far been rejected. We will benefit from the day of the Declaration of Government, not only as a sample of nails, but also as a serious attempt – if the government does not, then we will do it from Parliament! . to bring in people in Austria who really need help to protect Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e9742	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. 4 minutes remaining speaking time of the BZÖ Group. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e9763	Mr President. High house! First of all, I put forward two motions for resolutions. First of all, the application concerning insufficient regulation on the Interbank Strengthening Act and on the Financial Market Stability Act. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher and others on 'putting an impulse': Strengthen the economy, increase purchasing power, revive the economy!" – This application has already been distributed in the home. I can therefore save myself a reading. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I looked at exactly the mimik of the future Federal Chancellor. And I tell you right away, Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer, you will still be missing us. We've all heard of that. We will all trust the times of Alfred Gusenbauer, as Peter Pilz has already said. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I looked at the Mimik when Mr Scheibner told you that you had been informed about the measures at the post office six months ago. They shook the head, pulled the face like Donald Duck, and pretended that it wasn't true. Mr Faymann, I say to you: If that means that this is not true, what Mr Scheibner has told you, then it is the untruth that you suggest to the House! They also claimed it publicly. ==References== This year's post office was in charge of the interlocutory meeting! With the exception of Mr Mende, everyone was there. There's talk protocols about this. [[Federal Minister Silhavy obviously wants to show something on her phone.]] – You can now ask your mobile phone or your Secretary of State's mobile phone? [[Abg. Bures: She's a minister!]] Perhaps it's more interesting than if you think you're not telling this house properly! ==References== ==References====External links== Everyone knows that, including all of your coalition partner. There's a call protocol on this. Mr Faymann, it is even better, however, that you even admitted it yourself. In an interview with the “Falter” – that’s not an orange newspaper, just so no misunderstanding occurs – in an interview on 23. July 2008, which was authorized by your office, said the following to the relevant question – I quote; and this is a strong proof that you are telling us the untruth: At the post I even see the Austrian airlines coming to the square on us. No one will believe that you can save post offices with a Buntstiftverkoldung. Then it says again that two thirds of the branches have to be locked up. Where does that come from? Out of poor management, inventiveness and inability to ensure that the post is competitive. - Quote. Mr Faymann, you knew exactly what was happening at the post office. The Post Offices have told you exactly that. Do you know what you said to the post offices? - That you don't care. And you've taken her back. Ladies and gentlemen, that was your responsibility! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's why I'm saying: We'll mourn Alfred Gusenbauer! Your “social warmth” only benefits your friends, just your immediate friends, such as your own office manager. He has a really “faymannous” salary, a real “faymannous” salary. He deserves 14 180 € per month! [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] Mr Matznetter, the State Secretary, is becoming quite pale before envy. He does not have that as a Secretary of State, but the friends of Mr Faymann, they have it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the social warmth of Mr Faymann! There's a real threat to us. If this house accepts...
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e9858	Mr Stadler, your speaking time has ended. - Please, the final sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e9873	... we don't accept it. We'll knock you on your fingers, rely on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e9901	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Magistrate. Stadler is sufficiently supported and involved in the negotiations; on the one hand, they have already been distributed in the house. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e10294	Next word: Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e10315	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I have been available to the House for almost 18 years in various functions: first in the Federal Council, then in the National Council as a clubman and in the last two years as Federal Chancellor – and this is my last meeting today. I have also experienced different political periods during this time: I was a Member of Parliament in a large coalition, I was later Clubobmann in opposition time and at the end of the German Chancellor. We were lucky that the last few years for Austria have been extremely successful economically and that together we have managed to reduce unemployment to a low record level in Austria. What is ahead of you and before Austria will be economically more difficult times, because for the first time since 1945 we have not been dealing with a regional crisis in a part of the world like Latin America, Southeast Asia or Eastern Europe, but for the first time there are crisis phenomena around the world. Of course, all the answers that are given to this situation are nourished by past experiences – only: None of us sitting here have ever experienced a world economic crisis. We must therefore be aware that no one has used wisdom in this regard. One can only put in place, according to the best of knowledge and conscience, those measures that one considers to be correct. The prerequisite for considering something as correct is a broad democratic discussion as it normally takes place in Parliament – and it will have to be held very often in the coming weeks and months. Important steps have already been taken. An economic package has been agreed, there is a preferential tax reduction, pension income has been strengthened, family income has been strengthened, and we have decided on the bank guarantee package. All hope that these measures will be sufficient, but I assume that the economic challenges will be more than normal in the next few years and that the whole effort of our country and Parliament will therefore be needed to meet these challenges. I believe that it is good and right – and it is always gratifying to listen to the discussions – that it would not have been Peter Pilz for all, including personal polemics, if he had not become a little toxic after a friendly start, even polemics of discussion give respect to the person and, above all, the critical discussion with the arguments that are presented here. I personally tried to have a fair discussion here in Parliament at all times. I'm also glad that I'm going across all party borders. Not only have many Members, who have worked with many, been friends with some. I leave my office, which today is my last parliamentary session as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, so I wish you all, personally and politically, all the best. Austria will need a strong, democratic, cooperation-oriented Parliament. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e10370	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Kickl, colleagues, on the establishment of a national catalogue of measures entitled ‘State's core tasks and on measures to prevent the threat of massive unemployment. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Themessl, colleagues and colleagues on the provision of loans in order to maintain the infrastructure in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer, colleagues and colleagues on salary restrictions for managers of close-to-state businesses and managers whose banks benefit from the support of the federal government. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr President, on high-quality comprehensive postal services. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues on the maintenance of the Austrian aviation infrastructure. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grosz, ladies and gentlemen, on the maintenance of domestic air connections. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Haider, colleagues in the field of better financial resources for research and teaching. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, fellow Members, on the rapid implementation of an employment programme. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Bucher, ladies and gentlemen, on the inadequate regulation on the Single Market Strengthening and Financial Market Stability Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bucher, Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Strengthen economy, increase purchasing power, stimulate economic growth!’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[17:59:08]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e10553	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the official minutes concerning the election of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I shall therefore proceed in this way and now read the corresponding part of the Official Protocol: “The desire lies according to § 51 para. 6 Act on the Rules of Procedure to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol concerning the election of the Court of Auditors. (Annex I/1) Agenda item: Election of committees The Court of Auditors shall be elected unanimously, and 27 members and 27 alternate members shall be decided unanimously: SPÖ and ÖVP each eight, FPÖ five, BZÖ and Green each three members’. Are there objections to the selected part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. That part shall therefore be deemed approved at the end of the meeting. [[17:59:09]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-11-25-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00004_d8e10595	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed were brought in applications 39/A to 74/A. Question No 228/J to 244/J has also been received. I call for the next meeting of the National Council, which will deal with business communications and allocations, to be held at 5.59 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
