ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5462	I'll open the meeting. The official protocols of 49 and 50. 3rd meeting of 3rd meeting On 1 March 2008, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Directorate. Deputies Csörgits, Dr. Jarolim, Dobnigg, Haidlmayr, Ing. Hofer and Dolinschek. [[09:03:55]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5496	We are now getting to the current one. Hour with the theme: “New Ways in Men’s Policy – Breaking Up Roleing” First of all, Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. I give it to her and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5523	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Last Saturday, 8. March, was International Women's Day. In the context of the women's day, of course, there are a lot of questions about equal opportunities, the same rights – of course, from the point of view of women. From the point of view of women, it is about compatibility, that women also want to have equal parts of life, not only private, family, but also professional. In this context, the second side of the medal is often forgotten, namely the question of how men in our society actually deal with the compatibility of work and family. There is probably less talk about the professional part of life – although there would be much to say in the context of the start of traditional role patterns – since today the question of the private, the question of the family, should be at the heart of the question of the family, because also the image of men in our society, the idea that young men today have about what they expect of their lives, is very much changing. In recent years, the picture of women has changed a lot. This has always been very important to us and is still important to us. There we have put in place and taken many supportive measures, and many others are still open and necessary. But, of course, this process has led to a change in the role models in our society as a whole, including the male role models. Fortunately, what is considered male or immeasurable in a society is not grounded in stone, but also a development, though from the point of view of some a quite slow development. It is also what men expect of their lives, not grounded in stone. Many young men today not only have – this is of course also very important! – their professional orientation, their professional advancement in mind, but also how they want to shape the private part of their lives, the family part of their lives. There would be much to be said in the context of the start of traditional role patterns, in part for men as well; men also choose traditional occupations. We also need men in other professions, for example we need more men in the teaching profession. It is always said that the children, especially the boys, also need male role models in school. But we also needed more men for example in the care professions – today very up-to-date. But, as I said, Today, the family, the private part of male life, is to be at the heart of the debate. The image men have of their private life is also very much in change. Today, when we talk with young men, with fathers, about half say already quite clearly and consciously, they want to be active fathers, they don't just want to be the leisure paper, but they really want to care about their children, happen in the lives of their children and be real references. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, today reality looks quite different in many areas: Only a fraction of the young fathers actually go into baby break. The question we should be dealing with today is: Why is there such a separation between the desire for young men to imagine their lives and the opportunity they have to actually implement their desire to live this life? And what framework conditions could we all set together on a political basis in order to really support this desire to spend more time with the children, to take on more responsibility for their own children? The fact that there is a lot of things going on is also heard in discussions with men who may have children in a later stage of life with a second partner; in a later stage of the career, where they can also more relaxedly take care of the children, and where they will also say how sorry they are, what they have done with their first children, and how happy they are about the second chance to be able to take more intensive care of the little children now. And they enjoy it very much. Unfortunately, the development is slow. I would, however, like to keep in mind that it is going slowly, but that it is going ahead. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For example, I am still in the ears of the debate on the issue of the children's carriages. When my father pushed children's car, it was very extraordinary. I also remember that sometime in my youth there was the debate: Is it really male to push prams? This, for example, is no longer a matter at all today. This would only be perceived more than ridiculous today. The same applies to the question: Are fathers at the birth of their children? – It was also a debate some years ago, whether this should be whether it is good. Today almost all fathers are present at the birth of their child, and it is also a very beautiful experience for them, which they do not want to miss. How can we support this development? – Over the past few months, there has been a lot of work that is supportive and should work and should also help men to spend more time with their children and their families. I think we should take further steps together in the next few weeks. We have recently improved the child's money, introduced new models, from which formerly rigid system made a system where you have options and can prepare yourself models that reflect the respective family situation and It's a life situation that can be tailor-made. There is the old long model, there is a medium and a short one. The basic idea that the amount you get in the month is significantly higher when you use the child's money less, is something that is very much in store for the needs of the fathers. We hear from fathers again and again that a baby break is not possible because you have to buy too much income loss. This is an important argument, an argument that needs to be taken very seriously against the background of what income families have in Austria. For example, in the short model the three months are reserved for the father even if the mother has spent the rest of the time. This will then get €800 a month, and that is – I think – a highly attractive model for fathers. I'm sure that more and more fathers will make use of it. The previous government has introduced parental leave. There is also a lot of improvement in the fact that it really needs to be used for everyone. And we want to introduce the dad month. We want to tackle the papal month that we have seen from SPÖ for many years as an important project in the coming weeks. In the first weeks of life, men should have the opportunity to stay at home with the newborn child, with her partner, to take care of the child intensively. This should be an opportunity to develop an intensive bonding and relationship with the newborn child. We developed this model with the children's friends a few years ago. I am constantly being addressed by young fathers: You're the one who wants to spend a dad month – when is that finally coming? We want to take advantage of this! I am sure that this will be a very, very attractive model for young fathers. I am glad that negotiations with the coalition partner have finally begun. I'm confident. This should be a few weeks after the child is born; there should be an income replacement so that the family can bridge time well. It's supposed to be a legal claim. And I am confident that this can be implemented together in the next few weeks and can be taken an important step towards supporting young fathers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5617	Mr Buchinger spoke on a preliminary opinion. I'll give it to him. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5639	Thank you very much, Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Mrs Kuntzl has drawn attention to a contradiction between political intention, desire and living social reality. We know such contradictions in many areas. They are always an indication that politics and other forces must strengthen their efforts to minimise such gaps between claim and reality. Especially in the field of equality policy, which is fundamentally indisputable at European and national level – equality between social groups, equality in particular between women and men – there are such gaps between claim and reality. Thus, a majority of the Austrian fathers wish to be able to devote more time to their children actively as a father. In the case of a case, However, not even 4 per cent of the fathers in Austria claim the possibility of child care benefits. The income shear between men and women is unchanged and persistently high. Full-time women earn only 78 percent of the comparable male income. If one compares all employment conditions and thus also puts the higher proportion of part-time employment for women in the calculation, then women earn only 60 percent of male income. When I took over the role of the Minister of Men at the beginning of last year, I deliberately set four priorities to help minimise this difference between claim and reality, in particular to help change the framework conditions for men, women and children, for families with concrete measures in the sense of a modern equality policy. You know, ladies and gentlemen, in the House, that one of my predecessors, Prime Minister, in March 2001, set up a department for policy issues of principle. That was at the time quite a heated discussion. And I've also thought about what I've done when I took over: What am I doing with this department? If I continue to lead them, will I solve them? . I have decided to continue, but to change the priorities, and have undertaken a new business classification, where the objective of this new, modern man policy is now formulated in such a way that male policy aspects of equality, positive identity formation of boys and male youth and awareness-building measures to reduce role-making are to be the priority of this department's activities. These include active and modern equality policies: Awareness-building for equal partnership between men and women also in family work, in particular through greater father participation, but also as as a second priority of further strengthening prevention against male and male violence, as well as improving the service for man-specific concerns, as there are also these. Male identity must always be redefined. The men themselves have to do that, and they do. An active role in emancipation and gender policy is necessary. Maleity is not a loose, idealized category, even introduced by natural law, but is in a family, social and professional relationship: the man as a husband, as a partner, as a father and of course also as a worker in his relations with the opposite sex. Ladies and gentlemen, you see that there was a need for a coordinated gender equality policy – and that is good! – calls for cross-sectoral design. I have already started successful cooperation with the Ministry of Women in the first months, but also with the Ministry of Education. Further cooperations with the Ministry of Family and Health are desirable and are being undertaken. Two examples: With regard to role-clinic and violence prevention, in November and December 2007 Austria's schools took place Gender-Days, where my department focused on the group of male young people, boys and boys. In cooperation with professional man-advisor institutions, violence prevention has been addressed with workshops, campaigns and priority actions. I mention here, for example, the previous White Ribbon campaign “My fists fly only in the ring”. In the next few weeks, we will further develop and continue this campaign with the slogan “Partnership is my strength – my strength does not hurt anyone”. As far as the main challenges are concerned, the compatibility of family and work and the particular role and importance of men in this context is indeed a matter of discussion. In the government programme, the Federal Government has agreed to give greater attention to father participation in the field of education. The measures in this area are under discussion. In particular, it is about increasing the motivation for men to carry out family tasks and creating a framework for them. This has a sense of awareness about further strengthening this awareness raising, which is in progress, such as through the “boys’ day”, with a focus on choice of profession, education and care, but of course we also need to address the father’s participation in childcare, because 3.8 percent male child care workers are also a disgraceful low value in European comparison. We want partnership in the family not to mean that either man or woman is devoted to this educational work, but that men and women, i.e. fathers and mothers, take on this task. Children need both sexes, children need mothers and fathers as role models and in education – in the intact family as well as in the separate family. Therefore, the visitation support, the extension of the visitation guide, for example in the visit cafés, has also been a focus of activity in the first year and it will also be in the following years. I raised the amount of funding in the first year from €200 000 to €600 000; in this year we will reach the area of the visit cafés over all the districts of our Republic of Austria. The proposed Papa month, which Mrs Kuntzl has already done a bit, is to constitute another important step towards a stronger family bonding capacity for men. Why do we want to introduce this dad month? – In order to raise this shamefully low participation of fathers in family work. Austria, according to an OECD study, is currently below the average of the 30 industrial and emerging countries studied. So we are limping behind, but we want to make an advantage of this residue. Five reasons for one dad month: Compatibility of work and family is also a men's theme. Incentives for fathers are to be created. Shared family work is important for equal opportunities between women and men. If, in the early stages before, and after birth, the mother already receives support in the care of the child and in the design of the household work, this is beneficial for the family situation. And also the parent-child, the father-child relationship can be intensified and strengthened by this early bonding. We are currently negotiating with our government partner on the cornerstones of this papal month. The aspects of income replacement, voluntaryness and the guaranteed social policy conditions are important. We have put several models here to the discussion. The costs vary depending on the design possibilities, but are justified in terms of the effects and the objectives that can be achieved by doing so: With the increase of the father's participation, there is a break-up of role-kliques. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, as with the Papa month, the other new In the case of men's policy, the aim is not to consolidate or add new inequalities to existing inequalities, but rather to support the development of a partnership. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member The Austrian men are ready to do this. We in politics should continue to create improved framework conditions for this. Let's support the men to go new ways!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5742	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall be 5 minutes. Next, Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5766	For my person, I am really glad that the SPÖ has chosen the theme “New Ways in Men’s Policy – Breaking Up Role Cliques” for the current hour and that I have the opportunity to explain my position on it. [[Abg. Steibl: But we are not curious about it!]] This is because many – and I have noticed this – when this topic is cut, they always shake their heads and ask: What do we need this stupidity for?, and because, on the other hand, in connection with the term “Gender Mainstreaming” in the broad mass, it is always assumed that it is only about women's issues, which is not at all true, but it should finally be – without the calls of Mrs Steibl, for I do not take them seriously anymore – the attempt to get rid of this discussion once at all social levels. [[Mr Grossruck and Mr Steibl:Macho! Macho!]] That is why I am also grateful to Minister Bures and Federal Minister Buchinger for bringing the issue of the paternal month to the tapet again last week. That's nothing bad! The counter-reaction always comes immediately when one tries to give men the opportunity to participate in and participate in educational work from the beginning. The first reaction of so soft politicians is always: We don't need that anyway! – this is always just too reflective – and the second is: [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: (pointing to the ÖVP fraction) Exactly: babbling!]] We can't afford that! – Mein Ladies and gentlemen, if you are doing family policy in such a simple form, then it has failed, you are not even cutting this issue. Since it always says we have no need, I ask you: Have you ever thought about how to wake up such a need? – It may be a not quite fitting example, but 20 years ago no one has talked about the question either: Do we need a phone or not?, but today it is for everyone. And if someone brings in such a thing, then it's always being seen by the party political glasses, without even thinking about whether it's important for the population – whether male or female – or not. And that's how it was again in the Papa month. This kind of paternal month could, however, be an initial inflammation for the young fathers for their further life, and if only – even if this is devalued by some – you get the opportunity from the legislator to live the father's role much more intensively for a month. It is sad that even on the part of the family ministry, this proposal was not necessary, because men could go on vacation or also claim a care holiday. Then, obviously, I can only say that those persons who make these statements have no idea of the labour law regulations at all, for: First of all, vacation is to be agreed with the employer, and as a man, it is only then that Karenz leave can be taken as a man – without you being in the middle again and again – when the ban on employment for mothers is over, that is, only after eight weeks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: With us no one “snats”; with us we are spoken! ... With us the women talk, they don’t “snat”!]] And we should think about that! If, then, the social spokesperson of ÖVP says that Minister Buchinger should concentrate on what is in the government agreement, then he should read page 126, which clearly states that one wants to improve the reconciliation of work and family and, accordingly, also strengthen the father's role. That should also be said. As a trade unionist, I also “go to the alarm clock” – I say quite openly: Without giving any thought to whether such a proposal is good or not, without even talking about the content of a family policy, it is immediately said: We can't finance this! – I say: If we in Austria can afford to give up hundreds of millions of euros from the inheritance and gift tax, then we can use the 24 million € very well for this good proposal! [[Abg. Steibl: This is also true of families! Young families depend on these measures!]] And if the ÖVP once again says that we cannot afford to do so, hopefully every Austrian and every Austrian knows that it is not for financial reasons, but for party policy considerations it is once again rejected. Now I am just telling you my point of view of why we should take these 24 million and force this papal month: not only because of the OECD report, which also accuses us of being far, far behind in family policy, but it is fact that the fathers still have no claim to be able to take leave immediately in connection with the birth of a child. [[Call the ÖVP: Go, go, go!]] Let's not always make it so easy to say there's no need! – I am in the establishments every day, and I also have discussions in this direction with a lot of men and I know: [[Abg. Steibl: The poor plants!]] They often have the wish for such a dad month! And precisely these men also know that it is important to be with the life partner and the child in the first month of life, because this also creates an early bond when you can be there right from the beginning! [[Call the ÖVP: Why the first month?]] That is why I am grateful that our ministers Bures and Buchinger have addressed this issue. Thank you on behalf of the men!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5916	Mr Spindelberger, I am sure that this House will not be “quatished”! [[Congratulations and thanks to representatives of the ÖVP.]] The next item is Mrs Steibl's speech. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e5951	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To analyse Mr Spindelberger's speech is not necessary, I believe, because it has directed itself. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Let's wait for you!]] ‘New Ways in Men’s Policy’ means: Yes, the development of the new man had many advantages, said Paul Zulehner many years ago. – That is to say, it is not a new issue, Mr Federal Minister, because in the ÖVP we have dealt intensively with this issue, including in the past government. – And Paul Zulehner also says that it would be good for men, for women and for the survival of the world, changes would change more quickly. Iris Radisch, editor of the weekly newspaper “Die Zeit”, writes in her new book that the emancipation of men is a success story. – That means that there has been a positive trend in the last six years. – And she also says that the new paternality is not a new invention, but over the years a large number of fathers have only adopted from seemingly irrevocable positions, although occasionally it is similar. I think that today, to think that childcare is a matter of women, is contrary to the social norm and the good tone. It must be called in the future: What, our colleague isn't going to Karenz?!, instead of: Look, such a pat-hero, he'll take care of child and family for a few months or a few weeks! [[Abg. Scheibner: What does that mean? "Patch hero"?- Oh, my God!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Scheibner.]] In particular, new measures should be taken in this area in companies. A top-down principle is important, so the head of the company, from the head of staff to the employee is discussed in this respect. I think that the Father, Women and Family-Friendly Farms are also very important, which have been in Austria for more than 15 years, setting up measures in advance, setting positive accents, using criteria to achieve a better reconciliation of work and family. Ladies and gentlemen, the new masculinity and womanhood also belong to family policy. And especially the family policy of recent years bears the manuscript of the family party, the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] – I said already! My colleagues Ursula Haubner and Herbert Haupt have also worked there. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I think you have to say it again. Childcare allowance: 15 plus three months – here fathers are taken in duty! – or 20 plus four months, or 30 plus six months. Or: the parental age until the child enters school – even in the workers' chamber newspaper, this model is now praised! [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: I didn’t even subscribe to them!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] Or: Family hospice – six months or now nine months if a seriously ill child is to be cared for. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] – What do you think you're up to? Is there anything against it? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also contained in the government programme, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, and also in the perspective paper, where it is explicitly stated that father participation is an essential objective. – Yes, Father’s participation is in no way to stay with the child three weeks or one month after birth, but Father’s participation means: to pick up the child from the kindergarten, to experience everyday school life, to carry the puberty phases ; to point out: to accompany a child from birth to adulthood in the sense of child welfare and also to bear responsibility for time. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: More! That's right!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Is this in the government agreement?]] As far as a “father protection month” is concerned, as Mr. Gusenbauer says, I ask you: Mother Protection Yes, Mother Protection Has a Medical Reason, but “Father Protection Month ”? Whom do you need to “protect” your father? I'd rather ask: What do we have to do here? – In summary: Let us wait for the evaluation of child care money, especially with regard to the father's participation! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... twice evaluated!]] Secondly, Fathers become more sensitive to this important new family task. Thirdly, Increased support for measures to reconcile work and family life. Fourth: The social partners are involved. The social partners are in demand! They are to negotiate this in order to implement a sustainable measure. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: They want that!]] And one thing I say to you, too, I am not in favour of the family compensation fund being further removed. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] Father's karenz is to create sustainability, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6119	Next, Mrs Mag. Weinzinger to speak. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6140	Madam President. Minister! Minister! High house! When did you last see a mammoth? It's been a few millions of years, right? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] However: Then why are there still so many men who, like weeding the mammoth hunters, go through the steppe, swing the invisible Colognes, drum themselves on the chest, appear super strong – and expect the woman to suck the gooseflowers and finish the tea for the man in the evening in the cave? – These are the role-klique things that we still find in reality. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: The gooseflower tea!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] – Gentlemen, stay very cool! The women have done their job: They have improved their training, they are employed, they have developed new role models. What's missing is the men. And that's why I have very concrete three wishes: I wish myself other men first. I really don't need a mammoth anymore – thank you! – neither in politics nor in private. I wish me men who are quite sure that the man will be called when the child is sick in school and has to be picked up. [[Abg. Steibl: That's what many do!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: If he gets free immediately as a worker in the Voest!]] – Don't be so emotional, gentlemen! I wish that bosses finally act rationally and say, for example: Okay, I would like someone to stay in the job longer, where I teach him, and work reliably; so I have to prefer the woman because the men change much more often! And, Minister, I wish me men, for whom it is so natural that they put on shirts that they don't have to tell it any more – and not with the note accompanied by this eye twinkler: [[Congratulation with the Greens]] But my wife's blouses I'm not bending, I'm not doing that well enough! That is what we know, Mr Minister, gentlemen, is the old argument: You better do that, honey. If you were to raise this in all fields of work to the principle that women do what they can better, then, gentlemen, you would have to clean up your seats for women in series – Mr. Minister, perhaps you too! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the SPÖ:You would also like to!]] My second wish is because it is not only private, it is also another policy. If someone privately chooses to live together as mammoth hunters and gooseflowers – okay, it's all right, private decision. But the scandal is that our policy, our government, acts as if the life model “Mammut hunters and gooseflowers” were up-to-date. This is precisely the case in the tax system: It is assumed that the man brings home the money – the mammoth he has just laid down – and the woman is allowed to earn a bit. The same is true in the labour market: Where have the last government's efforts been to help women benefit from the labour market? – On the contrary: With the childcare allowance and your labour market policy, you have sent the women back to the gooseflower tea chef. [[Abg. Scheibner: In the green club it has to go!]] Where are the women's careers – where it is obviously still assumed that it is men's business to make a career: in science, in the economy, in companies where Austria does not profit from the international trend and the skills of women? Thirdly, I wish everything went very fast. So this is my wish number three. It was really “loving” that the ÖVP women on women’s day wished to implement equal treatment by 2020. That government, which has been in power for six years and has done everything so that equal treatment does not come, now wishes that in 13 years the great miracle it has attempted to actively prevent for 30, 40, 50 years. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You, Mrs Rauch-Kallat of the ÖVP, as Minister of Women, would have had the chance to do so, but you were at least aware that you were women's minister at all! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's why I'm saying: Come here with women's quotas! Here in the house, everything looks very malely dominated – especially if everyone is there. With women's quotas in Parliament, but also in the economy, in the supervisory councils! Why should the well-qualified women in Austria not sit in supervisory councils? – It is clear that men do not just voluntarily give up positions of power. We can make a little bit of soft pressure on her. – And the economic logic would match it anyway. In Norway it was a conservative minister who introduced the women's quota into supervisory councils because it is better for companies. They not only hinder women, they also hinder businesses. This is why we Greens are proposing an equal treatment balance for businesses so that we can look at them in black and white: Is this a company where women and men actually deserve equal opportunities, or is it an old mammoth farm?
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6272	Next come Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6293	Madam President. Dear Mrs Frauenminister! Dear Minister of Women! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, while people outside do not know whether a tax reform will occur and whether the cost-equilibrium will be compensated, they will sit here and place a topic that is certainly not very high on the Austrians' list of priorities. You have to say that in general! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: On yours!]] People outside have other problems, including problems that burn them under the nails. Nevertheless, we do not refuse this discussion. But what you're doing here today is already showing the picture: We have a women's minister, we have a man's minister, that is, there is once again the division of the sexes. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] They're trying to divide genders with violence. This is a way we will not carry along or go along. We stand for a common relationship between man and woman! [[New ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] You can laugh because of me, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek – that's exactly what we want, and that's what the Austrians also want! They do not want to be divided. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] If you laugh like that, I tell you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy You have been setting women's ministers since the 1990s – and what have they been doing? [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's laughing!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You benefit from it!]] I'm telling you quite honestly: The demands have remained the same, so I would say: The project just failed! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Take note of this: The project of the Minister for Women or the Minister for Women has failed, otherwise we would still not have to solve the same problems here today. This is also because regardless of who occupied this chair – whether the dohnal was, was the Prammer, was the Conrad, or whether it was the woman Bures – you try to capture left-left ideology in data and facts, and it simply doesn't succeed, because it doesn't help people at all and because it doesn't need people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Binder-Maier: You forgot Mr. Haupt!]] Now you're trying to get on the men's rail. It is quite nice when you are talking about a papal month here, but the economy is rightly calling for it, because the economy has to bear the cost, and that cannot be it. The papal month on and for itself is not the worst from the idea, the question is only: What is it worth to you? - You're not worth anything. The funding you want to shift to the economy, and that is why it cannot work at all. The economy is burdened enough, and we should not burden our economic location Austria with your experiments even more. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You could, however, take the money you have in your hands permanently for any campaigns, such as in Vienna for the pictograms, where the Sado-Maso woman works with mini skirt and shovel on the construction site, a campaign that has swallowed up summaries and brought nothing to women at all – by the way, she does not bring men anything –, save and invest in family policy. Investing You have this money in the women and men, because in the end it is the children and the families who would benefit from it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or the campaign you made a few years ago, where it was called: “Full men make half-half.” – After six weeks, this campaign was gone again. She has cost summaries – she has brought nothing! The Austrians do not always want to be told by you what they have to do, how they behave and how to act. Women and men who feel comfortable in their women's or men's image simply live their roles and don't need to get that said by you. And there is no need for a woman who is self-confident enough to force himself into a tie suit, to explain himself to the fighting man, and to fight against anything like that somewhere. That's not it! Self-confident women are successful by themselves, and self-confident women also have self-confident men. That's the way it is, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I didn't say anything!]] There are men who are very willing to help their wives to support their wives, and these are exactly the men who are also going to Karenz. My husband, for example, is currently in Karenz looking at our child. And this went without any problems and without anything you've brushed in here. That's what it's like: It's self-determination! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is what people want, that is what women and men in Austria want: self-determination and self-realization! All people in Austria want this – but you don't want to take note of it! [[Abg. Binder-Maier: All?]] You're shaped by your left-left ideology, you think that's what people want. But that's what you failed to do. I told you: Your women's policy has failed, just as your men's policy has failed, because there can only be a common one! I'll tell you something. We do not need women's ministers, we do not need men's ministers, but we need a Minister for Children, a minister who takes care of the interests of the weakest in our society. That is exactly what we want from the FPÖ, because we want to strengthen the children, we want to strengthen the families and not divide them. This really does not do anything – not for nothing, every second marriage will be divorced in Vienna. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Who is to blame for it?]] That is also the expression of the socialist government and the socialist social policy you have pursued! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Take note, please, of that, because you are trying to divide the genders with each other! That is the reason why the genders have more and more problems! I'm telling you quite frankly: We don't want that from the FPÖ! We stand for a common male and female image: We want to strengthen the families!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6520	Mrs Haubner's next speech. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6542	Madam President. Dear Mrs Frauenminister! Mr. Men's Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is truly remarkable that the SPÖ is staged here at the present hour, in the sense that the SPÖ has counted among the most zealous critics who said negatively that in 2001 the Minister of Social Affairs Herbert Haupt, who has also been the Minister of Women, introduced a policy section of principle. At that time, in 2001, we were pioneers of male policy. We have found great appeal across Europe. Important research projects have been carried out, especially in the field of positive paternality, on how necessary it is that children from families, where the partners have separated, also have fathers who are there for them. We have made the first male health report, and it has been created facilities which are being carried on today and are no longer to be thought away. Two examples: the visitation and the introduction of the visitation cafés for fathers, especially after the divorce. To this end, Mr Federal Minister, it is positive to note that you have taken more money into your hands for these visit cafés. But I still miss the legal basis for which you should be more committed. In recent years, men's advisory services have also been created throughout the country. You, Mr Federal Minister, have developed and continued these institutions, and that is basically positive. In view of this, I ask myself: What is really new about the men's policy of this federal government? – You have previously said that there is a focus on raising awareness for an equal partnership. That's all nice and good, but I'm wondering: How do you want to break up the so-called role clique if 60 percent of men in Austria still say that the financial security of the family is the main task of a good father? Don't you have to ask whether men really have to do this and have no other choice at all? In view of the fact that something is changing, how do you want to create the awareness that something is changing? I miss the necessary integration of men into family policy in all the discussions on the issue of fathers, because the fact is that: Women have fought for decades, to this day, for the same rating and for equal opportunities in their professional lives, but men still have little chance in family life. In my opinion, the voluntary father month has a certain placebo effect, because it's not done by itself – and it's nothing new in the end. We have already discussed this during the last legislative period, and my proposal at the time was to put forward a month of the six months for fathers in connection with the flexibilization of the childcare allowance, and to create the possibility of a parallel relationship between the childcare allowance for both mothers and fathers. [[Abg. Krainer:... three months!]] This proposal has been in the Committee since November. But I am pleased that you have now also brought this model into this debate as a proposal. I expect from you, Mr Minister, that you will find clear words on family work, that once you say that family work and employment for men must be equal and that skills acquired through family work can also be beneficial to men in the profession. I absolutely miss that you are forcing parental leave, that you strengthen part-time for managers in cooperation with the companies and that not everything goes on according to old patterns. Mr Federal Minister, I am pleased that you have clearly stated today that the compatibility of work and family is not only a matter of women, but also a matter of parents – but one must do something for that too! While you are very happy to speak about various family policy issues, why have you not yet cooperated with the companies in this regard? I would like to mention a lot more on this issue. I think new ways look different. New ways can not only be encouraged to create awareness, but new ways also have something to do with creating the necessary framework conditions so that these things are also viable and feasible. That would be a new way! The analysis of male policy on the part of the BZÖ is that good ways forward from the past are being pursued. What is now present is a lot of noise. And the astonishing public knows only that the Minister of Men himself irons his shirts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6583	Next, Mr Krainer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6605	Madam President. In addition to one's own birth, the birth of one's own children is probably the most incisive and life-changing experience in every person's life. What you experience before you get to school, that you finish school, that you start working, that you have a relationship that you have a new apartment, are also big changes in every person's life, but these mean more self-responsibility for the individual and more opportunities for yourself. The difference is the: You suddenly have a responsibility and a task with your own child. It is likely for all young people, for all families and for all people living in a relationship, a very, very incisive experience when they have a child. I believe that it is a very reasonable measure to allow all participants in this event, all members of the family – mother, father and child – to work together on this new life situation, at the moment when the new life situation begins, and that is the birth. Just as young parents can hardly imagine just a few weeks before the birth of their child that the child is really there, you can't imagine a few weeks later that the child didn't exist before. This is something that all young parents are likely to experience. I think it is a long time overdue that we can also make it possible, from politics, for Mother, Father and Child to adapt to the new life situation after birth together, and I therefore consider this Papa month not only to be a good demand, but in fact to a long overdue demand. There are countries where this possibility exists. It is not true that we are now reinventing all of this, but there are countries that have already introduced it. There is also the experience that 30, 40, 50 percent of the fathers also use it. The birth is only the entry into the father-being, the entry into the parent-being. In Sweden, for example, every third father not only consumes the papal month, but also goes to Karenz. [[Abg. Steibl: But you already know that there are only nine months of karenz in Sweden!]] That is, it's also about coming from the Papa month to the father's father's day, that the entry into the Father's being will be possible from the first day. Hiebei is not about compulsion, not about forcing mammoth hunters to wrap their children, but it is ultimately about the decision of each couple as it divides the work among themselves. It is only clear that women are increasingly demanding paternal participation and that, of course, the equal rights of women also depend on this father participation. If you work as a mother right after the child's birth, you're a raven mother. If you go to work as a father after the child's birth, that's normal. If you go as a mother after the child's birth in Karenz, that's quite normal. But if you go as a father in Karenz, you're a hero. Fathers who go to Karenz – you have to talk only to a father, colleague Jenewein, then you will find out; but you live with one and know it anyway – get the feedback from society that they are heroes. All women think they're heroes. What is interesting is what one hears about fathers who went to Karenz themselves when they speak of their parent generation, the present Grandfather generation. These grandparents say that if they assume child care obligations now because they are already in retirement and therefore have time to do so, namely: Now I only notice what I missed with my own children, the time when they were little, how they developed! I have missed this development with my own children, and I am only now getting along with my grandchildren what has really escaped me. It is not about congratulating someone, but it is about enabling fathers to be involved in the development of the child from the very beginning. Mrs. Jenewein, if you say that the government's women's policy has failed, I look into your ranks and have to say: It may already be if only two women and 19 men are in the FPÖ by 21 MEPs, and one of these two women now changes into the country day, as we hear it, so that Parliament leaves – we do not even know whether a woman will follow again or a man will take up her job – that then your women's policy has failed. But if you look at other parts of this house, for example the government fraction of the SPÖ, you can see: 50 percent of these are women. If you look at my group, you can see: We have a 40 percent female share here in the National Council. [[Abg. Strache: How many children in common?]] How many kids do we all have in common? - I didn't count that. [[Abg. One thing! That's your family policy!]] I have a child. I can tell you: In our group you will also find fathers who go in Karenz and who were in Karenz who did this from the first day because that is of course for us. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, women do. This is not a question of forcedness, it is also a question of generations. If you ask young people today, you will notice that more and more men want it. That is why we should also allow them to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6680	The next item is the speech by Mr Pack. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6701	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! If one has listened to the speakers up to now, has followed this discussion and has also considered the spirit of time, then one could gain the impression that men – so they have been presented here – should be sensitive partners and at the same time be great career men. But is it not true that a successful life requires that neither man nor woman adapt to perfectionism and other constraints imposed on them? Rather, it is important that the balance between family and work and the balance between one's own and the so-called foreign interests be able to balance a successful and positive life in the final effect. I believe it was important that men's policy has already been included in the political everyday debate over the last few years. Extensive studies show that the role of men changes – albeit only slowly. In principle, it should be – and I believe that this is the most essential thing, especially when we are talking about gender policy; Mr Spindelberger has already mentioned this in his speech – always be common to men and women. It has changed in the final effect not only the role of men, but also the role of women. I think it can be found that more and more men reject the so-called old, traditional role picture and rather focus on a newer, more modern role model. But one thing is quite clear – and that is, I think, something that needs to be taken care of when it comes to health – that it is more difficult to match this modern role model of man and woman than the “classical role picture” – under quotation marks – because it sets a much higher requirement. More than just an individual performance needs to be looked at, and often the necessary relief or compensation is forgotten. Men between the ages of 25 and 45 are under enormous pressure: On the one hand, they are supposed to position themselves professionally, high performance requirements are placed on them, on the other hand, this is the phase of intensive family planning, where it is appropriate to spend time for the family and for the career at the same time. That is why it is important that when we talk about the compatibility of family and profession – and that is what all my previous speakers have done – it is clear that this is a challenge for both men and women. I think it is precisely because of this that today's policy must focus on the equality of women and men and support women and men equally in all situations of life, even though it is difficult for some to implement it, because this classic distribution of roles in a modern family is simply no longer valid. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at man's policy and go away from family policy and also look at youth and children's policy, I think we should start here much earlier. There are a number of interesting aspects here when it comes to advancing the education of children as an essential example. We must try to win more men for social professions, men who, for example, engage in kindergartens to give the boys the opportunity to perceive different male images, so that the boys don't just have to rely on the media when it comes to the man's image. I believe that men's policy needs to be put at the centre today because, as Paul Zulehner rightly said – and I think that is very important – politics is going into a dead end if only the interests of modern women are taken into account. There is also a modern man.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6750	Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek's next speech. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6771	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values for speakers from the ÖVP! As a representative of a party that has actually blocked the essential infrastructure project needed for equality between men and women in this society, in the past you have given a very nice speech and have made a very great effort, at least as far as the poetry is concerned, to give a more modern picture. But – and with that I am at the core to which it should actually be today –: If you want to promote the same and self-determined life of men and women in Austria, you do not get to interfere as politicians, namely, to interfere in such a way that you also actively create this equality and not just lyrically conjure it. This is especially addressed to you, Minister Buchinger. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What are the most important measures for equality? – Family policy is one issue, the differences in income are the other. That is, I think, the two fields of work on which we have to move. However, today we have again been described as so many clichés that I would like to devote myself to this cliché first. The colleague of the FPÖ has spoken of ‘fighting’. I'd be interested: What's a fight man? Is this a woman who works for other women, that they can live self-determined and equivalent, in the mouth of the people called “emance”, or what exactly should that be? After trying to break up clichés today, I would ask you to be more cautious with such terms and not to defamate women who are committed to the rights of other women, just after the International Women's Day. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the same cliché, the “Rabenmütter” and “Rabenvather” probably also fall into the same class, although these active modern women can prove to be very caring mothers. But that is also one of these clichés. A big cliché that I also want to start breaking up is the quotas. Quotas are mainly represented by combat emances. When it comes to quotas, even women say: No, I don't want to be a quota woman! And there is definitely no policy in Austria that supports and supports quotas. The Austrian company ÖIAG has exactly one woman in the Supervisory Boards, in the board of directors. One woman! The Austrian companies are mainly women-free zones in the chief days. In other countries, quotas are discussed. Now I look towards the ÖVP club and think about it: Isn't there any secret quotas here? Is there not a certain quota for representatives of the agricultural professions? Is there perhaps a secret quota for representatives of the ÖAAB? Is there not a secret quota for the Economic Federation? There must be certain groups. Why Defend You're against quotas for women, against quotas in your party for women? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: We are not quota women! We are so good as a woman and as a human being!]] – Of course, the quotas are. A very nice article, Dori’s servant wrote in the “Kurier” on the weekend, and she said something very right in it: “Many men go, you can rely on more than 100 years of emancipation, just as much as you push them.” – And no further step. And that's right. Why should men just give up privileges they still have? Why should they give up board posts and say, okay, I make room for a woman if you don't actively support this from politics and also actively prescribe it? At this point, I would like to ask for quotas for the Austrian board of directors, for the close-to-state companies, for the ÖIAG, but also for the Austrian companies which are currently dealing with this problem by saying: A woman who gets a position because of a quota arrangement is a quota woman. I beg you to think about it: What are the men, especially your men in your party, sitting on certain quotas? They're just the same quota men. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: You don't need to take care of our party!]] - No, that's a family policy issue. If you, Mrs Ridi Steibl, spend decades fighting all-day school forms, you have to be clear that you are particularly hindering women from working. That's simple and gripping. [[Abg. Steibl: That's your opinion!]] [[Call the ÖVP: I don't know!]] As long as there are no full-day forms of schooling, no full-scale childcare, as long as this remains an ideological shooter war, we are on the topic of combat emance and rabbi parents and we are not taking a single step forward in equality. But that's one of the most important questions: How do you really want to organize care if you are still on the stand that you should go home at lunch and get organic vegetables out of the garden and perhaps make gentle preparations so that your mother's duty is not mother-in-law, but properly fulfilled? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: These are all precepts! The voters give you the answer!]] I am glad that there are hipp glasses, I tell you honestly – but what the Austrian families need is support for childcare from zero to 15, 16 years, namely through infrastructure facilities, through school forms and through the full expansion of childcare. One last sentence, and this is addressed to the SPÖ: We still have no statutory minimum wage. There are still incomes that push women into poverty. The highest point in the women's income curve – that's what you have to imagine! – is at the age of 25 years! I'd like to give that to you for thought.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6893	Next, Mr. Dr. Graf. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e6920	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Don't worry, I didn't bring the flowers for you, but I'm staying at the usual roll clique. [[Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger: I've been happy already!]] I'd like to say: Yes, I've been married for 18 years, always with the same woman, and have three children, all with the same woman. [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] I hope you don't see me as a mammoth – a name that has already fallen today – that lives only more in this role. Do you know what I don't like about this discussion? This is just the title “Retirement of Role Cliles. ” – What’s a role? Mother's role? Father's role? Life is not a spectacle. This is quite different, Mr. Federal Minister and Mrs. Federal Minister. Families are best encouraged by taking the word “family ” into their mouths what you have not done. You are talking about father, mother, child, but the word “family ” does not happen to you anymore. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is best for families to be promoted by securing families an income they can get through with. And that's the real problem we're facing. The government is at a crossroads, is about to break – and we are talking about roles, about clichés, symbols and what symbolism you can promote with €25 million, what role and what clichés you can promote with €600 million – and the families simply don't have any money! And they don't have children anymore! That's what's added. What kind of kindergarten - you can't say that anymore - or kindergarten education, because that's what has been said, should you call a father if there's no more children if anything is available? Apart from: In Vienna, the kindergarten teacher will probably have difficulties calling the mother in the right language. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] This is the real problem we have today – and not your cliché! The true heroes are not those who dispute over what is an emance or no emance, but the true heroes are the models. And we have the best example in our own ranks, even if Mr Krainer comes here now and speaks of narrowed politics and the change of Mrs Rosenkranz to Lower Austria, and here we are thinking about whether or not you will follow a man. Three women have occurred in Lower Austria: A socialist woman – who has already been selected and has been replaced by a man. You don't even live up to it from the SPÖ! A green front woman has arrived – election defeat. The only candidate who has joined us and is really fighting for the compatibility of work and family and also living in intact conditions is parliamentarian Barbara Rosenkranz – and she has won the election! [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] Your policy has been chosen – not ours! You from SPÖ have a woman who wants to send and do with women 100 percent of the university councils, i.e. the supervisory board at the universities. A particularly “scientific” approach! It would be necessary to introduce an anti-discrimination provision. Why not men? Where's the quota? This cannot be an approach: It must be 100 percent women! – And in return, where she has to decide on her own, the woman’s ministers employ a man in the post of post of the State Opera Director. Now we have two men there. This is women's policy à la Federal Minister Schmied. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] I would like to thank Barbara Rosenkranz, the most famous and famous mother, the “Mother of the Year” and the “Familiesführer of the Year” that she is an example for all women and for all families in this country and who live up to what we need in our society. She's a model. Please, my speech is not yet over, I am only going to hand over the bouquet, Madam President. [[The speaker goes to Abg. Rosary and gives this thank you a bouquet of flowers.]] [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] My final sentence: The country needs role models! Then politics will keep pace. With quotas alone and with the worship of new ways, by seeing everything as a spectacle, everything just more than role, as a cliché, you will not reel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7036	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7057	Madam President. Mrs Frauenminister! Mr. Men's Minister! High house! Dear spectators at the gallery and at home! Mrs Ursula Haubner has already raised this point: The breaking-up of role-kliques is an interesting and important topic, but nothing new in today's times. It has been discussed for many years. Herbert Haupt has started to go this way in Austria in 2001, at that time even as a women's minister in his field has established a men's department and at that time has done something that unfortunately did not happen under the Minister of Social Affairs and Men's Minister Buchinger, namely to live the idea of equal treatment by bringing these two areas together in one ministry, in order to work positively for the Austrian families. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Much has happened in this area since 2001. There have been thousands of people affected – you will be able to sign this as a responsible person in the Federal Government – and there have been thousands of files that have been processed; everything to the positive for men. There were many reports, surveys, for example on men's work, there was a health report, a report on paternal leave, reports on the effects of divorce on men, a very essential issue. And, as has been said, in 2007, there were suddenly two areas again: a women's minister and a man's minister. In other words, these two important areas of cooperation have been torn apart, and there have been many announcements for new namings for thematic areas – but relatively few have been implemented since February 2007. There are, when you go to the homepage of the Social Ministry and click on man-related links, dead links. By this I mean that there are references to events, but the respective page has been in construction for ages, in work. The question is therefore: Are there no events for male policy, or does it take so long to put it in? I think something is going wrong in the organization of the ministry. Updates do not take place, and what is also interesting, on all the links to the topic of male politics on the homepage of the Austrian Ministry of Social Affairs, is a quarter of the references to Germany. That's where I have to ask the question: Is there now an Austrian male policy if we are already talking about the break-up of role-kliques, or do we need to make references to Germany? Perhaps you should also look at the right here in the ministry, which is exactly what happened here. Well – and I would like to stress this already – is the fact that the social democracy of the papal month has been remembered. We from BZÖ called it father month. Whatever it will be called, it's secondary, because: It is important that the content is right and that there must be a logical further development of the child's money introduced by us, because the child's money has shown, there has been a strengthening of the father's bond. In 2006, childcare took over 970 fathers at home in the first year, 1 620 fathers in the second year and 3 423 fathers in the third year. That is to say, this possibility is very useful, and this father month, as we call it, is of course another motivation for the fathers to stay at home and to take part in the care and care of both the partner, the partner and the child. That is, this father month leads to a better bonding of the father in the family, with the child, with the mother, relieves the mother, supports the mother. On the other hand, of course, he is also forcing the father's awareness, namely that child care is a matter for parents. Parent, that is, in the family, both the husband and the wife, the father and the mother have to take care of the child. So it is a positive step for us to take this path and demand a family benefit. Not for nothing, the BZÖ, last in November 2007, has already submitted an application for this. Of course, we have done something different; it would be easiest to implement it in this way – that has already been said – that one of the last six months available to the father is preferred and placed at the beginning. – Mr Federal Minister, you nod. That is to say, it is really thought to regulate this perhaps in this way, and that is important. At the end of the day, however, I am allowed – after we see from the BZÖ this discussion on the role model really as a whole, where women and men are always represented in interdependence – to address the question to you, Mrs Frauenminister, also to the colleague Glawischnig: Why is only talk about the quotas? Why are women today with a modern women's image for you nothing but quota women and can't achieve anything by their own qualifications? That can't be true! Is this the future of women in Austria? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Women are highly qualified, and if they choose to do so, all the ways in the economy, all the ways, and this is shown everywhere. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] In this sense, my final sentence: Mrs Federal Minister for Women's Affairs, you will certainly be able to agree to me if I say that you too have your position in the ministry through your qualification and not through a quota. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7142	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:18:04]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7164	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a short debate on the replies to the questions 2957/AB and 2119/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7372	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on the reply 2957/AB to Question 2981/J by Mr Gabriela Moser, colleagues on ÖBB Real Estate, Part 5: Sale of the area of the former post-bus garage in Vienna-Erdberg by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology. There is also a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question 2219/AB by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues on the improvement of women in the Austrian legal order by the Federal Minister for Women, the Media and Public Service. As the request for short debates has been made at the same time, they will be called in the order in which I have listed them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at 3 p.m. Any vote will take place following the debates on this subject. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7405	I would also like to say that Mr Ing. Westenthaler has requested that the Financial Committee report on Mr Haberzettl's motion for a resolution (605/A(E)) and Mr Haberzettl, colleagues on tax reform 2009 and emergency measures to combat price increases, as well as a compensation of 100 € for low-income households and persons, be limited to 8. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This brief debate will take place following the debates on the answers to the questions. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7430	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 and 4 and 5 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7456	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. A day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 116 minutes, Greens and Freeman per 92 minutes as well as BZÖ 64 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:20:52]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the report (III-5) the Federal Government on internal security in Austria (Security Report 2005) (448 d.b.) 2. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the report (III-114 d.a.) the Federal Government on internal security in Austria (Security Report 2006) (449 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7502	We come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Vilimsky. 7 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7530	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go into the very latest safety report of the year 2005, allow me to add some kind of personal appendix to what we have experienced in the current hour. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, women and men spokespersons of the Red and the Black Group, do you really believe that the image of a softened man world is the wishful thinking of Austrian women?- Oh, my God! Faith Do you really want Austrian women to have a men's world made up of only pelvis swimmers?- Oh, my God! - That's absurd! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is just as thought in the direction of the Greens and said to our dear President Glavischnig. Do you really believe, Madam President – in absence – that you prove to the local women's world something good if the only qualification to enter a board of directors is to be their sex and not the other qualification? That's not to overdo with absurdity what you celebrated here today! [[Abg. Oils: Please!]] Now we come to the safety report. [[Abg. Oillingers: This can only become more positive!]] The whole thing has left nothing to be desired of absurdity today. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It seems to me a little bit like on Titanic: This coalition has rammed the iceberg, water enters everywhere. And as the orchestra finds itself there to a last little start, you come here, while the Republic is actually interested in learning how it will continue, and debate the enormously exciting question of Austrian male politics, which is something good and important, but certainly on the priority list today, after yesterday's secret negotiations in the Hofburg, not what would have to be in the first place here in this House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We do not even know today who may be Minister of the Interior in two or three months. We do not know who will survive politically at the head of the Austrian security device in the coming months. We do not know whether there will soon be new majority in this House who will stand for a better security policy than it has shown the past. Let me briefly refer to the 2005/2006 reporting period. Considering the entire span of the last selected black and orange government from 2000 to 2006, it is noted that the number of crimes has increased by 20 percent, from 500 000 to 600 000. At the same time, it is noted that the education rate fell from more than 50 percent in 2000 to less than 40 percent. Do you know what the really pointed expression of this missing security policy was from my point of view? – That was when we warned and said: Dear people, don't be so absurd, don't pulverize the billions for buying a plane that may be able to take shots somewhere in the air – because armed is just a small part of it – while on the street below, in the parks, yes, everywhere the drug dealers are acting increasingly unearned! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need more security guards! We need safety on the ground finally guaranteed in a way you both, black and orange, it's stunned in your time. When I try to see security policy from my personal point of view, I often wonder: Which country do I live in? – I live in the vicinity of the Vienna City Park, which should also be a hanging sign, because it is located in the Neuralgian intersection of three hotels, the Marriott, the Intercont and the Hilton, and so there are a lot of tourists on the road, and a business card of Vienna. Just what is the case? – The drug trade is taking place there in a completely unfavorable way. You can't even cross this city park without three or four times talking about whether you would like drugs. Our demand for permanent surveillance is constantly receiving a departure, and that, where many children are still playing in this city park and watching mothers – everyone who goes through – is able to observe that drugs are sold on the edge of the children's playground, which is an absurdity and community of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How can it be that there is no permanent executive present? It is not only the Vienna city park, it is all Vienna parks and it is all Austrian parks. As a keyword, only the Rapoldipark was mentioned, where the Tyrolean Minister of the Interior should actually take over a responsibility for protection for Tyrol. There is a similar problem everywhere, where drug trafficking takes place in the parks, the domestic population of Zug is pushed around train, because there is, of course, gang formation taking place, which is an expression of a security policy that is crossed from the back to the front. Ladies and gentlemen, we from FPÖ want a different security policy. We want the establishment plan to be increased again by the 3 000 design points that have been painted under black and orange. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Whatever we want is that in the area of criminal law, it is finally assumed that those offences you still consider to be bagatels, such as drug trafficking, must now also be punished with the corresponding hardness of the law. This is about our children, the train around train will be pulled into the strudel and perhaps sometime have ended up in a killing strudel. That's something irresponsible! Instead of discussing the 2005 security report – completely outdated and a common sense for the House to present it so late and to bring it to debate – it might be a good thing if you were to take a look at what is going on in the parks around this House and what you would urgently have to do in your drug and security policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to vote in favour of this safety report today because it is for us an expression of a bad security policy that is missing. Austria urgently needs a better security policy. It is therefore good that it is now possible to find out in an investigation committee where it is at the top of our security equipment everywhere, and a freeman is at the forefront. We are sure that the many thousand small officials who are now drawn into compassion by the lazy smell that is at the top of the security device will be washed white. That's what we guarantee. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7634	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Vilimsky is properly tabled, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7688	Next, Mr Kößl. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7709	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! One thing needs to be clarified, as I mean. It is true that at the beginning of this century, namely 2001, 2004, we had increasing crime rates in Austria. But we don't need to scandalize. We are still one of the safest countries in the world. In my opinion, we have made a very good security policy in recent years, otherwise we would not be there today. But we don't need to discuss this at all: Efforts must be continued in order to ensure the safety of the population accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now, from the subjective presentation of my previous speaker back to the facts, and fact is that we have experienced a trend change in 2005/2006, and thanks to a trend change, God was able to say that we could see a 6 per cent decline in crime acts and also talk about a further 2.5 per cent of a fall in crime attack rate in 2006. This is a great work done in the Ministry of Interior by all officials. But this is also due, of course, to the political requirement that we have made because of the circumstances we have seen over the past five years. The changed social conditions in Europe, the opening of borders, the disappearance of the Iron Curtain, the enormous mobility change in the enlargement countries has resulted in increasing crime rates. From this point of view, I would like to thank our internal ministers for having had the far-reaching vision of changing the structures in such a way that we can talk about a trend change in security today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now to the 2005 safety report: I have already said that there is a 6 per cent reduction in crime and a 1.5 per cent reconnaissance rate. It is therefore not true that, as my previous speaker explained, there is a falling education rate from 2001 to 2006, but we have this trend turnaround to God, thanks also to the Enlightenment. As has been said, there are declining figures in all areas of crime and crime, for example in the area of property offences, but also in the area of crime. 6 per cent are 38 000 crimes, which have occurred from 2004 to 2005. As I said, the figures continue to decline. Of course, we also have to assume that there have been changes in the preparation of criminal statistics. In recent years, these criminal statistics have been adapted to today's circumstances. These criminal statistics are much more efficient and accurate today than before 2000. As far as the number of criminal offences is concerned, it was in the past that a criminal offence was counted only once, the most serious offence, but not all other crimes. That's different today. Today, all the offences are presented, so that the higher number of criminal acts that the statistics collect is due to them alone. We need nothing to beautify, but it is so that we must continue this efficient work in the police sector. Of course, we have to give the police framework conditions here in Parliament so that they can work efficiently. If here is about online arrest and what I know what is being spoken, then we cannot oppose it; there must be a real balance. The perpetrators must not be allowed to do anything while the police are only allowed to watch, but we must also give the police all the conditions in place so that they can work efficiently. Coming back – because it has once again been scandalized – to what has been done in the Ministry of the Interior, I would like to say from this point of view: One is that a frustrated official is against officials and there is no political room for action in this area. It has been expressed clearly and clearly, there has been no political direction, and it has been clearly stated that there has been no cover-up on and on itself.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7765	Mr Mayerhofer is now speaking. I would like to speak for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7786	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Your colleague, Chief Inspector Kößl, you know what it really is. And I hope that many police officers and many informed citizens who are particularly interested in this area today are watching and thinking that it is different. If this safety report is an aid to the interested people, in particular to the interested and committed Members outside, I believe that it is primarily an aid to the ÖVPs, a beautiful coloring report, but no safety report at all. And I'll give you the proof. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: Facts!]] First of all: The citizen, of course, especially at night, on which he applies in particular in rural areas, fails to report if he does not need an ad confirmation of his insurance. So this safety report cannot have any real power of statement at all. But I am now coming to the one with whom Mr Kößl has also dealt. A little more comprehensive, you should inform the Hoge Haus. For example, if for years – with this in mind – one of the most common offences, the wallet theft – a wallet card, a driver's license and, of course, cash – is usually located in a wallet, as three criminal offences, which are standardised in criminal law, are displayed and stored and, as has been said, also counted, one cannot now order by service orders from May 2007, now we only enter the so-called leading, the heavier offence. At least five years ago, the other two offences, the alienation of barbarous means of payment, should have been ordered to do so in the ministry. [[Abg. Oils: That's right!]] Then the truth content of crime statistics would be corresponding. That is not the case, however. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And this has always been exploited by this group, which represents the minister. They have speculated on the citizens' information overload and that they are not aware of it. I like to be willing to inform the people that this is simply not true. Take note of this at last. And in the service order it has expressed this very hard-working Major General; you can read that. In addition, to the numbering method: For example, if five cars are broken up in a underground garage and this is considered to be a deed, because the perpetrator in a single emotional act is doing and accomplishing that in a single act, I do not think that this can be counted as a deed, but it must be counted as five acts, because even in the investigation of each vehicle counts as a single act. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ]] So, for example, if there is an investigation at a crime scene in five cars, then it is five enlightened acts, while it was only one act before. Please, ladies and gentlemen, take note of this. Mr. Chief Inspector – right! – you should know that, but you're acting here against better knowledge. [[Abg. Kößl: Do you think I am?]] You should inform the people correctly, that would be appropriate in this case. [[As a result of the accident at the FPÖ as well as in the SPÖ's representatives.]] The attempt is now being made to reorganise into another crime group. In fact, one wants to include the specialists in the EGS addiction in the Criminal Directorate III, where they are overloaded with other tasks and thus can no longer use all their energy in the area of addiction. Now, however, all the police know that this is a crime group that only becomes public and transparent when police in this area really start to identify and work. However, it is precisely the case that the police are not allowed to work there; the police who would work there and, of course, would provide bad statistics, which would actually be good – that would be the truth to the people, but that's how they work according to the motto: Everything that is not said to the population has not happened! As a result, less offences appear. But this cannot be done according to the motto: If we don't look at it, we don't find anything, so it's and never was there! I would like to say to the responsible person behind me, the Minister: They probably believe that in an untruth they will not be caught be the same as telling the truth. That is why we also reject the report.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7875	Mr Parnigoni has now come to speak. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7897	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the safety reports 2005 and 2006 can now be discussed in plenary is due to the BZÖ, which is all right. We Socialists have never understood that the security reports were not discussed in plenary from 2000 to 2006 because we consider this important. I am therefore glad that a debate is taking place here in plenary on 2005 and 2006. If you look at the data, ladies and gentlemen, of course you have to worry, that is absolutely clear and correct, because one thing is certain: Unfortunately, we have a high level of crime. In comparison with the development in Bavaria, I have to hold on: Unfortunately, in 1999 – Mr Mayerhofer has gotten a number messed up there – it was already 493 000 committed crimes and an information rate of at least 51.4 percent in 2006, we had 589 000, about 100,000 more crimes and a 38.9 percent reconnaissance rate. But that's not the decisive thing. In Bavaria, which has more than two, three million inhabitants, the number of crimes recorded has fallen from 686,000 to 673,000 and the rate of investigation has remained 65 percent – 65 percent! And that is really the goal we must have. Ladies and gentlemen! It must be clear that there is a need for great effort to achieve these objectives. Speaking about a trend change is really premature, but I think we should work together to get on a good path. The fact is that this crime shift arose in the years 2000 to 2006 by beating all warnings into the wind and having lost a large number of executive officials, i.e. decommissioning the posts. You have also deleted 120 services. In addition, the police, whose number is now much lower, are now increasingly subject to enormous additional burdens; this must not be overlooked. This too, of course, leads to this circumstance. I would like to thank all the police for their great commitment that they are doing. They often have an inhuman pensum of extra services and still strive to do the best. In view of the statistics, I must of course give Mr Mayerhofer the right, because the fact is that the statistical method of counting has been changed, as he has already described, which leads to a further deterioration. It should also be noted that less and less is displayed, because on the one hand, people feel that they have to wait a long time because there are fewer and fewer people, and on the other hand, people show a small mass crime if you don't need the ad for the insurance, not at all, because at the low level of education, you hardly have a chance to get that informed. That is where we have to put, otherwise there is a danger that people's safety will be affected. Just talking about being the best and the most beautiful will not bring us anything, there is a need for hard work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact is, in Vienna hundreds of policemen are missing, in Lower Austria as well. In Vienna, he even demands Mr Mahrer, that is what he says in an ÖVP newspaper, more staff from those responsible. – Mr Federal Minister, I think you have been asked! [[Abg. Kößl: The Federal Chancellor is responsible!]] He calls for this to be done by his competent minister, who, of course, has the responsibility to do so. That's a fact. And he will also make a great effort. It is also very exciting, Mr Kößl, how this will be done with the police in the Lower Austrian border area. Service and there ensure security as they do in the future, whether the promises made in recent weeks, namely that they will also do so in the future – all those who carry out their service outside there – will be kept. We will observe this very closely, because in the last few weeks, everyone has been told that he can stay where he is now serving. I'm curious about how this is being fulfilled. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the context of the Euro 2008, the executive faces major challenges. I hope that all measures will be taken: proper accommodation, decent overtime, appropriate equipment, appropriate training and preparation for possible difficult situations. That's a big job. I am convinced that the police will make a great effort. If you give them the opportunity and support them accordingly, this will also work, and we will bring a successful and positive euro to the stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7942	Mr Mag. Hauser's next word. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e7964	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Estimated colleague from Tyrol! High house! The fact that we cannot give this security report approval by the Freedom Party is really obvious. Mr Platter, you also know the Tyroleans and the Innsbruck problems with the Moroccans. There is nothing in the security report to help the whole of the cover-up either! I am glad that Mr Parnigoni has just found out and confirmed that, of course, statistics and methods of counting are now another way of getting a positive statistics. But in the case of the really serious violent offences, in the case of the really serious drug offences – in order to take out a concrete example of Moroccans – security policy has failed since 2004, totally failed. This not only says the Freedom Party, but it is documented on the basis of very clear facts. [[Abg. Kößl: The facts say quite another thing!]] If I let history happen very briefly, I must hold on to Mr Kößl, that we need nothing to criminalise, but that we just have to let the facts speak. And these facts, which concern Moroccans, speak a concrete language. In a 2005 response to a question, it is noted that the Moroccan scene was in reality totally unsuccessful, including the resources used so far. On the 2005 request, namely: “Is it true that asylum seekers in particular operate drug trafficking?” has already been noted in 2005: “Yes, most of these people are at different stages of an asylum procedure.” On the question: “To what extent is a deportation to the home country...?” was answered at the time: It could not be postponed because of open asylum procedures, unexplained identity and missing travel documents." – That was the request response in 2005. What does the situation look like in 2008? - Hardly better. Only recently did the "Tyrol daily", 9./10. On 2 February 2008, the Commission adopted a Decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Of the approximately 300 Moroccans, who terrorize not only Innsbruck but all the major cities of Austria, only five could be postponed so far; 50 also reside in Innsbruck, the rest terrorizing the rest of Austria. Only five have been withdrawn from Morocco so far. Although the identity was held in other persons, there was no withdrawal. - That's great! That is why we have called on the Freedom Party to ensure that those persons who have become guilty are not allowed to abuse the right to asylum, to be kept in secondary centres – and not to leave them on their feet. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This initiative of the Freedom Party was rejected by the votes of ÖVP and SPÖ. But that would be the only effective thing; everything else does not use anything at all. So it is really embarrassing when these people are detained and then released from prison because they light up the cells in prison, as reported in the “Tyrol daily. ” I quote: “We keep these people insubordination for a maximum of ten days, then they either go on hunger strike or light their cells so that we have to release them because of inability to hold them.” This is the terrifying one: Nothing happens in the really serious cases! As only the internment and deportation benefit, and as long as the deportation is not possible, one cannot leave these people free, otherwise the security of the population is massively at risk. And on this question you have completely failed.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8009	Mr Pilz spoke next. 8 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8031	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are not only in a somewhat unusual situation as far as the government is concerned, but it is also beginning to shine on Parliament. I have rarely experienced an agenda like today. The agenda begins with the 2005 Security Report, then follows the 2005 sports report, and then the only two laws that the government has submitted to us today for decision-making, namely the Künstler-Socialversivungsfondsgesetz and the Baustandercontractsgesetz. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thursday is no different!]] That's a federal government! This is able to present the Künstler-Sozialversicherungsfondsgesetz and the Baustandercontractsgesetz to the National Council's plenary session at the same time. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Are you against artist?]] There must have been free minutes and seconds. [[It was in favour of Greens and FPÖ as well as BZÖ Members.]] Two star-hours of government policy, which this Parliament is to acknowledge accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, if it continues at this pace, then we are still waiting for exciting months and weeks – of years we are fortunately not to talk anymore, because this suffering will also end. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: What do you have against artists?]] [[Call:Speed kills]] [[Further calls.]] – Really, speed kills. That's why the series at SPÖ and ÖVP have become very light today, because speed is particularly killing today. We've got speed killing fields in the coalition parties we haven't seen in this way. That's just a fact: If the government does not rule, Parliament will be unemployed. I have long been in this house, for the first time I have the feeling that, with the exception of committee of inquiry, we are largely unemployed. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] What is Parliament supposed to do if the government does not deliver anything? What's going on? We have a post-law problem, and I do not know whether we should make the proposal to resolve this problem in the light of the state of this federal government. - That's one. The second is: Yesterday, the two main responsibility for this state – the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-President – were with the Federal President and agreed to a restart. Today you can already get a picture of this restart: There the Minister of the Interior sits, then six chairs were free, at the seventh chair, until recently – well separated from him – the Minister of Justice, who preferred to leave her place. [[Call to the ÖVP: That would be no wonder!]] – This is the restart, ladies and gentlemen! The restart has an image: Behind me you'll see a classic cast builder/molder restart. [[Abg. Parnigoni:..., we can't fight!]] Mr Parnigoni, I have rarely heard as little opposition to findings as these from the parties' banks. Your problem is not that you come to the same conclusion as we do, but your problem of SPÖ and ÖVP is simple and simple that you are too cowardly to finish. You know for a long time that it has to be concluded, you know that Austria can no longer be ruled that way, but you are too cowardly to end – because you are not thinking about the Republic of Austria, because you are not thinking about the concerns of people, because you are not thinking of the great reforms that stand out, but just because you are thinking about what you and your party could lose. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ as well as with representatives of the BZÖ]] These are the only concerns that people in this Republic no longer have: What happens to you from the SPÖ and what happens to you from the ÖVP is the only concern that Austria does not concern! Now to the safety report. [[Call the SPÖ: Well, finally!]] Ladies and gentlemen, after so much uncertainty in the Federal Government, it is worth taking a closer look at whether it is at least different in the field of public security. Predetermined short answer: in details yes, basically no. Discussions on a security report focus on criminal police and judicial balance sheets, on the balance sheets of the fight against crime. Austria has become more insecure for various reasons since the beginning of the governments of Schüsel. [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] But above all this has a reason – we will have to examine it very carefully in the Committee of Inquiry –: The quality of criminal police work has suffered in the last eight years to a degree that has not been observed throughout Europe. When you look at the neighbouring countries, especially Switzerland and Bavaria, you see that all numbers point in a completely different direction than in Austria. The whole thing has a reason, and the reason is: Party accounting in the Ministry of the Interior. With his start of office, the first Minister of the ÖVP – and the third one who is still behind me – has made no difference; this is also being spoken in the Committee of Inquiry – has made it all possible to make the Ministry an instrument of his party, and not to make the ministry an instrument of crime control. The structures that suffered most under the “cleansings” and demolitions of Interior Minister Strasser to Interior Minister Platter were those of the Criminal Police in Vienna, Lower Austria, Upper Austria, Salzburg and Tyrol. These were the five main areas of the criminal police. It is not a coincidence that not only in the case of Kampusch, but also in the case of Horngacher – I think there will be other major cases – there have been systematic large-scale inconsistency errors, which have been concealed away from the top of the resort. They did not want people in Austria to learn how badly the criminal police investigation has already become, how difficult the working conditions under which criminals have to work, how difficult it is for them to do ÖVP ministers in their daily work on the ground, to fight crime and to resolve crimes. This is the crucial balance sheet of criminal statistics, some of which have nothing to do with reality and have been rewritten and re-interpreted by ministers, their offices and their political officials. What is available here today is not the right figures on crime in Austria. We will also consult experienced criminal officers on this subject in the Investigation Committee. I fear that there will be a completely different picture of the development of crime and the successes and failures of the fight against crime. Ladies and gentlemen, if, in the next few months, we need to clarify the serious shortcomings and the serious misbehaviour and the great political abuse on the part of the ÖVP in the Ministry of the Interior, then this also has a meaning: to allow a restart, not the Federal Government, but the criminal police. Officials need structures, resources, but above all they need a place of business, which does not rely on the party's book, but on qualifications and the goal of security, prevention and crime control. And we need a new political culture in the Ministry of the Interior and, of course, a new Minister of the Interior, of which at least one condition already applies, namely: He must not belong to the Austrian People's Party! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8204	Next, Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8228	Madam President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We from the BZÖ were the ones who demanded that these safety reports be put on the agenda – but not because we are so happy about it that we are on the 11th. In March 2008 the safety report of the year 2005 may be discussed, but because we also want to hold a debate on security in Austria in principle. However, let me also make the preface that we also need to consider in the High House and in conjunction with the Austrian Federal Government how sensible it is to discuss reports – and this is the case twice today – in this House, safety reports, sports reports, environmental reports, all that is possible, which are two or three years old. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I think there has to be a reform, there has to be an acceleration. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] In short, to the government: I was surprised today that the SPÖ had fallen into Lethargy a little bit, even at this current hour. It is already up to Parliament, this government situation. The ‘near-death experience’ of this government is also something of a Parliament, although the great coalitionary ‘hebamme’, that is, the fisherman, sat down yesterday and tried the 47. This is the first time we have been able to re-start this federal government. I just want to remind you that it can happen even in normal races that if you have too many restarts, the race is off before you even start. It looks the same with this government. We would have liked to deal with the overall situation of this government today, because I think that would have been interesting. However, this does not happen, and that is why we are dealing with something very important, namely safety. Mr. Federal Minister Platter, I already have to use the figures 2007 if I refer to the comparison of 2005 and 2006. Mr Parnigoni is right when he says we have to do something, because in the case of some 600 000 crimes that occurred in 2007, this is more than necessary. When you convert this, it sounds a bit more interesting: It is 1,628 crimes per day or 68 crimes per hour that are now happening in Austria, while in 2007 we had an investigation rate of almost 40 percent. It's true: In 1998, the education rate was still 50 percent. In other words, every second criminal offence in Austria was settled in 1998; now we are 40 percent. Based on figures, this means again that 360 000 crimes – that is an enormously high number! – are not being clarified in Austria. This is not a special fame sheet, but a situation that is actually alarming. I would like to take one out of the individual types of crime, which we are constantly discussing from the BZÖ and where the figures have also been alarmingly increasing last year, namely the crime of morality, Mr. Federal Minister, which rose by a total of around 10 per cent. Just a few details: sexual abuse of defenseless persons: plus 12 percent, severe sexual abuse of unmistakables: plus 20 percent, pornographic representations of minors – now comes – plus 111.2 percent!, sexual abuse of young people: plus 43 percent. These are already alarming numbers! There is absolutely something you have to do! It is also too little if you do not enforce orders awarded by Parliament as a federal government. I remember that it was a request from the BZÖ of May 2007 – it will now be one year old! – a request from the BZÖ, which has found a majority here in the House, for a professional ban on sexual offenders. Thank God, this request has been voted on by the four parties; I am still happy about it today. And then Parliament called on the government to submit a report by September 2007, which it intends to do in this context. It lasted until January of this year until even thought about what you can do. And then there was in a Council of Ministers a score on professional bans, on sexual offenders file, on a few good intentions – and now two months have passed, and there is still no relevant bill in the House! Federal Minister Platter, I am looking for She urges you to finally send us, together with your colleague Berger, solutions and legislation, which include a professional ban on sexual offenders, a sexual criminal file and an advertising obligation in the event of sexual offenses! That is necessary, we demand this, Mr Federal Minister, and you are still guilty of it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are ready to talk – unfortunately the Minister of Justice is now no longer here – as regards the execution of justice on these issues. Mrs Berger – even if she is now absent – will not let us loosen this release package – Mr Darmann will go into it in detail, because we really believe – Mr Federal Minister, perhaps we can You also lose a sentence today – the answer can't be that you fight crime with your resort and bring out executive officers behind the castle and bars, but after half a year they'll see them back on their feet, because these criminals will be released again! Foreign criminals, who have not received a criminal framework of up to three years, will be released immediately after half the penalty – provided that they leave the country and no longer come to our country. It is naïve, Mr Minister, to believe that these people do not come back to Austria – or are there again and commit crimes again and there are victims in Austria again. Mr Platter, we urge you to stand up, show the flag here and give a clear rejection to these prison plans of the Ministry of Justice! That's very, very important! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have also looked at this closely, and we have received an answer to a urgent request: In 1999, there were 7,469 prisoners, of which 1,137 were prisoners. Do you know how these figures looked in 2007? – 11 800 prisoners, 1 569 of them, and – now it comes! – 88 “heavy guys” who committed sexual crimes were set on a free footing, early, conditional! Even if one assumes from a lower relapse rate than generally assumed, it should be assumed that these 88 sexual offenders, who have been set on a free footing, Mr Minister, may now be on the road again and threatening people – threaten children, threaten women. We can't just release these perpetrators from prison, but they're locked up! This is the demand, Mr Minister, that we make. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's getting more and more. Now, due to the Minister's detention package, 1 000 to 2 000 more arrests are to be expected over the next few years! Da_te I ask you, Minister of State: What do you say? You're an executive who's been arresting the same criminal for the third or fourth time? He must be frustrated! This is directly a “frustration program” for executives who think very slowly: Why do we even arrest someone if he is released from justice?- Oh, my God! This is a point we simply do not accept: only half the punishment for the perpetrators, but full hardness for the victims. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This cannot be the principle of a security and justice policy in Austria! That is why we ask you to look at this carefully and carefully, because the removal of the Schengen border, Mr. Federal Minister, will certainly not reduce crime, but will unfortunately be able to observe that crime will rise, especially in the area of property offences, burglary thefts, thefts, burglaries. There was already a huge burden in 2007: 22 percent more breakdowns in family houses, a total of 20 percent more property crimes 2007. The “picture newspaper” has written this so beautifully: It is already observed that at the long East border of 1 253 kilometres in the past weeks and months, much more illegalals have been seized than before! There's something wrong with that! It can't be that you tell us all the time, that's the other way round. There are only two possible explanations: Either it is not properly controlled – because you always claim that it is still controlled by the executive organs in the backyard – or it is as in Germany, where it is said, it is only controlled by monsters, each two thousandth car. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== January 2008 614 illegals were seized at this border! Throughout the year, it was 484 illegals at this border! – What does that mean? – In other words, after the opening of Schengen borders, there are more illegals crossing the border. We are also very interested in the current figures. You have already informed us in the various bodies, also in the Committee on the Interior and also in the Security Council that you think it is going to be less. We do not believe this because we have the experiences of the people, and not only the people in the border regions, but in the eastern region: in Vienna, in the Burgenland, in Lower Austria, where there are serial breakdowns in single-family houses where there are car thefts. I'm surprised that we've heard statistics now, which you think are not true. – People seem to have a completely different feeling than the statistics do. And there is a question of whether it can't be that, for example, serial break-ins, burglary thefts of gangs, which include several offences, are seen in your statistics only as a crime and, therefore, the statistics look quite different from what they actually are. Here, too, we need a new kind of encounter. That means that we must protect people even after the opening of Schengen borders. It is, of course, necessary to provide more executives, but also in the appropriate agglomerations where these property offences come into being to carry out a stronger surveillance activity. People are affected, and there are really these conflicts. We must also be careful, Minister of State, that in Austria – and I am particularly referring to the Eastern region – we are not going to the scene of ethnic conflict. This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this problem. This is growing ever more – no matter if they are street battles by black Africans in Simmering or if, as last, violent political demonstrations take place, as was the case on Ottakringer Straße in a Serbian demonstration. I think you have to look closer at that and make it clear. I know that happened in Ottakring, and I think the executive has done a good job there. I believe that it was necessary to protect this region and also the people there, but a lot has nevertheless happened; there has been not only damage to property, but also injury to the body. So you should not look away, but you should not do one – just a small hint to the FPÖ –: You shouldn't pour any more oil into the fire. I don't think it's good if "Mrs and Mrs. Ottakringer" look out of her apartment and see street battles of Serbs there. That's not all right; on the other hand, we have to defend ourselves. Austria must not become the scene of ethnic conflicts! There is also a need for a proper immigration policy, and I hope that will be the case in the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8417	Mr Platter spoke from the government bank. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8438	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is necessary that I do a few things right here after I have heard some remarks here. The fact is that we have seen a marked decline in the area of crime attacks in the 2005 Security Report and the 2006 Security Report. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From 2004 to 2005, we have 6 percent fewer crime attacks, and from 2005 to 2006 2.6% less. That means it's going in the right direction. If I have heard here that we are not well in the international comparison, I must say: I don't know about which country They have spoken, because others value us quite differently. The Institute for Management Development awarded an excellent rating to Austria in 2006: We are first among 55 industrialized countries worldwide! And that counts in the end, ladies and gentlemen: What is said about our security by means of figures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I looked at the individual numbers very carefully. It is a pleasure to see the comparison from 2005 to 2006 that we have been able to see a decrease of 9.2 percent in the field of crime statistics. I would now like to mention individual offences. We have a decrease of 8.2 percent in burglary thefts, a decrease in drug abuse by 8.2 percent, in fraud by 9.1 percent less crime attacks, in depressing documents minus 11 percent, in commercial thefts minus 12 percent. It is true, however, that we have an increase of 7.5 percent in robberies and theft by 1.2 percent, as well as in crimes of morality. Mr Westenthaler, I would also like to say 100 percent of all these measures that are necessary here, on the one hand, on the sexual offence file, and on the other hand also on professional bans. We need to look at the deadlines for the eradication, as well as higher penalties, but the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior are in good conversation, and I wish and hope that we will soon be able to deliver the results here in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also essential to me that we take a look at the present, not only at the 2005 and 2006 security reports, but also at the Schengen enlargement. This has already been referred to by some Members. Interestingly, a picture is always drawn that is not true. I am very pleased that we now have a comparison from January/February 2007 to January/February 2008. We have a real decline in these two months, i.e. after the Schengen enlargement, by 10.3 percent. This is a fact that I have to tell you very clearly here and today. I would now like to address individual states and districts, because it is extremely interesting how this has developed as a result of the measures we have put in place. There is not only a safety belt at the new EU border, but also a perfect cooperation with our neighbours, but also an additional safety belt in the border area. Thus, in Lower Austria and Burgenland, we have a crime decline of almost 20 percent, in Carinthia a decline of 17 percent, in Styria a significant decrease of 16.6 percent. The Enlightenment Rate has remained the same. When I look at the Burgenland, because there are criticisms about this, I wonder: Why is that criticized? In Güssing we have a drop of 52.5 percent in crime attacks. In the district of Eisenstadt and the surrounding area, we have a drop of 51.3 percent, in Oberpulendorf a decrease of 52.2 percent. There is a clear decline in the area of crime attacks, which is particularly close to the borders. That's fact, that's a fact we can show. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are also marked declines in the border districts in Lower Austria: In Horn by 39.9 percent, in Bruck a.d. Leitha by 28.1 percent, but also in Vienna environment, a reduction of 30 percent. I am convinced that we are going a very sensible and reasonable way. But it is also important to me to say that this is not a balance sheet. This is a statement about two months, and the observation period is still too short for me to see a clear trend. That is why we of course make every day efforts to take all measures so that we have a full grip on the fight against crime. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why strategy talks are now being held permanently in all the federal states, where we are once again setting up and accepting the challenges so that we can continue to be as good at international level as it is currently in the field of security. I would also like to express my heartfelt thanks to all the police, experts and security authorities for their work here! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It was also discussed in the debate about asylum. Let's look at the figures in the last two years, and let's look at the two months in 2008. We have a 40 percent reduction in asylum applications in 2005 and a 40.6 percent reduction in 2006 due to the foreign rights package that we jointly decided in 2005. We had a drop of 11 percent in 2007, and we now have a 4.4 percent reduction in asylum applications after the Schengen enlargement. Some have said in recent days and weeks that there is an increase in asylum applications. - No! On the contrary: That's not the case. In turn, we have a decline. That is why I am convinced that we will again have a fall in asylum applications by the end of 2008. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to give a brief information on the current situation regarding the probably abductees in Algeria, because I think that is a very burning matter. ==References== On February 1, 2008, there was a final contact with the members of the family with the two missing ones from Salzburg. ==References== The missing person was reported on February 2008, and the Federal Criminal Office maintained close contact with the authorities from Tunisia. ==References== March, so yesterday Monday, we got the information that both Salzburg missing people were probably abducted. It is said that the El-Qaeda assumes responsibility for this. However, no evidence is yet known to us that the El-Qaeda has taken responsibility for this alleged abduction. It is true that we have not yet received any claims from the kidnappers, but we are currently in close contact with the authorities in Tunisia and Algeria in the investigation. The cooperation between the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior is very active. A meeting will take place at an hour. We from the Ministry of the Interior have offered that we provide experts to strengthen the Embassy in Algeria and, if necessary, also in Tunisia. A decision on this will be taken shortly so that it can be implemented. I can tell you that everything is done in good cooperation between the authorities in Austria and also with the authorities in Algeria and Tunisia. I can also inform you of the recent crimes of the last few days, which have caused great sensation: on the one hand, the case of the mayor of Spitz, Dr. Hirtzberger. The suspect was arrested, but is not competent. There's a DNA track, the investigations continue. We assume that there will soon be a decision in court whether the arrest will continue to be maintained. As regards the butter acid attacks against five victims or injured persons in Upper Austria: The suspect was arrested running investigations. The third case is the yesterday arson attack in the Landesgericht Salzburg in the office of a prosecutor. The suspect was arrested, he's admirable. I would just like to say here that, on the basis of these crimes, on the basis of these three very essential crimes, which have caused great public sensation, it is obvious that the executive is doing excellent work. And I wish and hope-- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the House for its support.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8600	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8621	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The feeling of being able to live safely means quality of life for the people of our country. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: From security we don't have much!]] Austria is still one of the safest countries in the world, and we must do everything we can to ensure that it remains the same in the future. Our executives work hard every day so that the Austrians can feel safe in their country. I am especially pleased that more and more officials are in charge of this. Two years ago we had 21 904 police, today it's 23,788 – and still this year 500 police officers are on the street service. I am against the fact that our security system is always felt sick and ill - see Investigation Committee. The current safety reports 2005 and 2006 show that our executive works very well. Total crime and crimes decreased by 6 percent and 2.7 percent respectively. I thank all the police for the services they provide every day. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But also the work of Minister of the Interior Günther Platter, Lese Prokop and Ernst Strasser should not remain underway. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: He's not here anymore!]] They have contributed significantly to greater security in our country: with the police reform, the strengthening of international security cooperation and, finally, through the Foreign Police Act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, of course there is still much to do. This year's organised international crime, the fight against terrorism, the fight against drugs and the European football championship are facing major challenges for executives. I am convinced that the new police is fast, efficient and flexible. She has already responded successfully. I would like to point out that, of course, every citizen has a responsibility to protect himself against crime. In Upper Austria there is a remarkable show project. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: The recoloring of the police is the “Presence project”! We will discuss this over the next few months and years! That's what we're looking at!]] In the form of direct information from citizens, the possibility of preventing burglary thefts is highlighted. And this information work has already borne fruit. Cases of theft from non-locked motor vehicles in Upper Austria decreased by 18.5 percent in 2007. These are less than 100 thefts, which has been achieved by the spread of the slogan “The vehicle is not a safe”. Unfortunately, some serial perpetrators have increased burglary thefts in single-family houses and apartments. There, too, initiatives such as “Wacky Neighbor” or “Light Startle Breakers” call on home and housing owners to take self-responsible preventive measures. Currently, in Upper Austria, the number of crimes has decreased by 5.7 percent; the investigation rate is 50 percent. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the cooperation of the population with the police is crucial to the prevention and investigation of crimes. And I am glad that measures are being taken in this area again and again. Finally, I would like to say: Austria is a safe country where the police do excellent work every day. I would like to thank them once again for their commitment. And I also call on the opposition to appreciate these achievements and finally to take note that Austria is a safe country and it will remain in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: But the minister doesn't hear it because he's not there! Where's the minister?]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8715	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. Also 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8737	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Two comments received: It was a long call from different parties – we all know – for reports to be discussed in the house. I therefore do not understand at all that if we are discussing reports now, there is a hair in the soup at once going to why they are being discussed. First point. Second point. I remember that many colleagues from the Committee on the Interior have always been excited about it when we discussed this part at midnight. I note that I am glad and hopefully not alone that we are finally discussing the reports at a proper time, that they are not at all discussed or when, then at midnight. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My dear colleagues from the Freedom Party, I have just said this: Make up your own mind who was in government right now! It's not our theme, whether the blue or orange was. The fact is, we know where the planning sites have been shortened. And I can well remember when we said here from this speaker's desk, 1,000 people are missing what an echo was. Today you are making yourselves and demanding 3,000 people; that is funny. [[Abg. Where are they now?]] I believe that the Minister, as well as the Members of Parliament, knows that we need appropriate staffing in order to achieve a decent performance in the interests of the Austrians. I say that the vast majority of our colleagues provide an excellent service, which is no question at all. And I think we all thank the Austrian executive for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about reports from the past, since Mr Platter can't do anything about most things, we already know, but if you look at the figures, you have to see how the percentage increase was and where the decline was again. If I look at the education rates – whether these are our neighbours, Bavaria, no matter who – we already have a proper joint work in front of us, I mean, because the Austrians simply have the right to do this important and, above all, very sensitive work in the security field. However, I believe that it is also extremely important that we give the co-operation security in the framework conditions and not insecure it. In principle, I have a different opinion from that of my colleague Pilz very often, but in one he is already right: In the area of the criminal police there was great uncertainty, there are still them. It will be up to us together, Mr Minister, that we also see that we are getting under control of this area. I am really surprised because we, all the parties here, put in a resolution in June 2006 that we are also implementing a government reform after the police reform. This is overdue, ladies and gentlemen, even in the light of the new criminal process reform. I really invite you to do this. All insiders know we have to do it sometime. Why are we pushing this on the long bench? We have tabled a motion for a resolution here ourselves. Let's do it! I believe that, ladies and gentlemen, but especially the Austrians have a right to do so. We've got enough work. Mr Minister, I am convinced that we will implement this work together in the interests of the Austrians, but also of the executives.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8795	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8817	Ladies and gentlemen! I must be surprised to note that the Federal Minister for Justice is not here. As you know, the Security Report contains not only a part of the Ministry of the Interior, but also a part of the Ministry of Justice. With regret, I see she's not here. [[Abg. Parnigoni: 2004, 2005, 2006 she was not responsible!]] – She was not responsible in 2006, but perhaps one could discuss developments from that time so that she can draw the right conclusions from it. But I heard she'd rather give a press conference. You have to take note of that. I very much regret that. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the BZÖ.]] Mr Westenthaler, you have targeted the increase in the number of sexual offences. Every single offence is a tragedy, but I'm telling you: In that case, I am glad that at least this is reflected in the ad statistics, because even worse would be if the ad statistics did not rise; then I would probably assume that the dark figure is even bigger. Studies assume that there is a stagnant number of sexual criminal offences with a relatively high dark rate. And if the ad trend increases now, this is statistically unacceptable, but it could also mean that the ad tends to rise in the end. That would be a development that we quite welcome. I think we should look at this more closely, because our goal is to keep the dark count as low as possible and bring sexual offenders to justice. The safety report has not yet been adapted in two points. I think that should be discussed because we can clear this up with long-term prejudices. One thing is, even here in the house, it was once again claimed that so-called alien crime is increasing. – The 2006 Security Report shows that the opposite is the case! When we look at the crime statistics, we see that the number of non-Austrian citizens' convictions has declined: in the case of damage to property, in the case of theft has fallen, in the case of theft has halved, in the case of burglary theft, convictions have been significantly reduced according to the drug law. There is a slight increase in minor body injuries, for which there is a decrease in severe body injuries. I mean, that's a good development. One should also make it clear here that one has to put an end to this panic. Let us look forward to this development! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are also studies that assume that when comparing non-Austrian and Austrians in the same situation of life, there is no difference at all in the rate of crime. What does that mean? – The conclusion is clearly on the table: The domestic/foreign debate in connection with crime is the wrong path. It is about opening up social-political opportunities for all. The second point is a debate held in January. The Minister of the Interior was a leader. It is the debate on youth crime. There too, everything has disintegrated in air. If the ÖVP had looked at it more then we would have saved this debate. At that time, the assumption that youth crime had increased. The fact is, the ad statistics would show that, but the fact is, the convictions have been falling continuously for 50 years. It cannot therefore be said that we are experiencing an increase in youth crime, but the opposite is the case. This does not mean that there are increases in individual crime groups, keyword: Mobile phone theft. This is clear, of course, that new technologies are also statistically reflected. The fact is, there's no reason to panic. You have to look into individual areas, what to do. But we can assume, Federal Minister, that there is no problem in the field of youth crime, which would be more serious than in recent years. I also hope that the defeat of Prime Minister Koch in Hesse will end the debate about the educational camps. I do not know if Mr Missethon was already on his exploration tour in February. At least we didn't hear anything. Maybe he wants to tell us about it. I think there's a way to go, and that's what all youth judges are drawing. We need more disversion and less tightening. And if I say the word ‘Diversion’, I would like to add another sentence: Adult Disversion. Statistics 2006 show that the disversional events are going down. That is to say, there is less extrajudicial compensation, there are fewer fines, there is less parole aid instead of condemnation. This is considered alarming by the prosecutors. An example recently discussed in the media shows how important this is. You know, it is said that in 1999 a member of the Interior Minister's staff was sentenced for any matter relating to mobile phones. At that time, there was no means of the division, and later it was introduced. I think that would have been a case for the division, and that would have been good. A misstep should no longer be followed by someone who does not have the intercession of the Minister of the Interior, but works in the private sector, is likely to have a serious problem with such a situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] We don't want anyone out of a stupidity to be disabled in his personal future. And thus the diversion is a good means and belongs to expanded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8888	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e8910	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The problem of the topicality of the reports has already been raised today. I was one of those who – contrary to the mainstream – have not shown so enthusiastic that the old practice of the nineties is now being reactivated and old reports are debated here in the House for hours. I would have liked to discuss the old reports in the Committee and to hold current debates in plenary, such as statements by the Federal Minister on the current security situation. This would have been more interesting for all of us, would have made the debate more lively and perhaps also kept the media interested. As we see now, the cameras are lost, the journalists are in their editors; this important question of security of Austria is discussed elsewhere and not here in the House at an interesting time. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is also true, of course, that the prominent date of these reports is probably due to the fact that the Federal Government does not otherwise introduce anything. [[Abg. Wheeler: Come on!]] – Not so, well, yes, yes, it is! Unfortunately, we can only say that we need it, even in the security field, that we are discussing legislative proposals, that we are discussing how implementation is adapted accordingly in order to be able to respond to the situations that are at risk – and not that we are bloating and expanding agendas, just so that it does not mean that the government and Parliament are not working. I would prefer to discuss meaningful initiatives and legislative proposals here, than now to discuss or to be allowed to discuss the safety reports in 2005 and 2006 in order to cover up the fact that you can still not agree on anything. Whether the President-in-Office can do something, I doubt, but please. In the end, you have to answer for this. Mr Platter, you meant that the one who wants to criticize will read out the increases from these security reports, the one who wants to praise, will read out the reductions in the rates of crime. There will always be crime groups in which there is a reduction, and always those in which there is an increase. The fact, Mr. Federal Minister, is – thank God! –: Austria is one of the safest countries – hopefully that remains so – but there must be signals. There must be the right signals, both on the part of the police apparatus, on the part of the Ministry of the Interior, and on the part of the Minister of Justice, who is unfortunately absent here today, because in her area, the criminal laws are established, which, with their threats of crime, which hopefully will also be implemented, are intended to act in accordance with general and special rules. It is important for us that the principle applies: Victims in front of the culprit. This too is sometimes missing in the public debate. It must be clear: The culprit's got it in his hand! He is not himself victims of society or anything else, but he has it in his hand. As a self-determined being – unless he is ill, then it is necessary to take the appropriate measures – he has to decide whether or not to commit a crime, and for this self-determined action he must also be held responsible. [[OBJECTIVES]] It can't be that one says to the victim: We're sorry, but that's the way it is!; you have to get along with this act yourself. Second point – I have often mentioned this here, but it is less a matter for the Federal Government, but one for justice –: I still believe that in the legal situation, there is a conflict between violent and property offences, both in the face of the threat of punishment and in the way in which punishment is measured. It's right: If a man causes a loss of wealth by his actions, then he shall be punished. No question. He should also, if possible, repair the damage. Only: In the case of property crimes, it is at least possible to repair the damage – in the case of violent offences, this is usually not the case! Even so - called small offences, minor body injury or even less gross sexual offences, often lead to “life - long ” for the victim’s life because the victim is often unable to recover from this crime throughout his life. For the perpetrators, in these cases there are often only bagatll penalties, perhaps also disversion and other things. I mean, this is a wrong situation that you have to correct in the laws, in the criminal code. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Next point: The police are protecting, yes, that's necessary. It does not help us, as Mr Pendl always tells us impressively here, to thank the judicial officials and the police officers and also the soldiers. That's wonderful, that's beautiful, but you have to show solidarity even when it comes to reversing our executives, for example, through the media and public debates: Why did he shoot? Did you use too much violence? Where there is something going wrong, there must also be consequences, of course, but it must not be that an executive, if it becomes necessary to pull the weapon, has to be considered three times before: What happens to me if I shoot now and give the righteous people the security they demand? We must show the executive that it must comply with the laws, but we stand with it at any time when the order to guarantee the security of Austria is fulfilled. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Next point: Foreign crime. – I cannot understand the issues in your behalf. [[towards ÖVP]] Whether the figures have now slightly increased or decreased, and you can also use the citizenship in the case of foreign crime: The fact is that there is an over-proportional share of the offences, both in the ads and in the convictions, and on the other hand, one has to do something! That's why signals like: Foreigners are postponed after half the term of punishment, wrong. This is an invitation, ladies and gentlemen, to this group of perpetrators. Of course, it is also necessary to do something about it when political discussions are carried out from the countries of the country of origin in Austria. Demonstration right, assembly law applies to all, no question, but violent conflicts have not lost anything here in Austria – no matter where these rulers come from. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Last point: youth crime. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, we see that violence against young people is a terrible thing, especially when it comes to the lifelong consequences. That's to be feared accordingly. On the other hand, we must always note that violence among young people and young people is increasing, including young people who have not yet been punished. I would like to stress once again: It's not about locking up children, it's not a question at all! We also point out again and again that the law of youth criminal law in Austria is so modern and targeted when it comes to removing young people from the wrong track. So, if we now have to realize that young people already aged 12 and 13 are on the wrong track, and we know that positive measures under the law of youth criminal law, the division, the corresponding social measures, are not taking place, yes, why do we not create the possibility – and I say once again: with the exception of the imprisonment – that much of what is possible in the law of youth criminal law in preventive measures, in response of society to crimes, is applicable to 13-year-olds in order to show them that this is the wrong way?- Oh, my God! For 14-year-olds, it is often too late, because in many criminal groups, the sentence is already the only means of the response. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These would be a few points, ladies and gentlemen, which I wanted to bring into this debate. There would be a wide range of work that a federal government, which understands itself and wants to work, could implement – unfortunately, as it currently looks, we will have to wait a long time for such a federal government!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9007	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9029	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Highly esteemed Members! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! The safety report, which is under discussion today, shows in a very comprehensive report the data which is one of the most important concerns for the Austrians, namely safety, and that in various areas. These reports give a positive witness to the safety of Austria for many thousands of hours of hard work. Thank you to all the police who provide for the safety of Austria's giants. Scientific studies show clearly in the study of the subjective sense of security that security, security and confidence in the police are the top priority for people – despite some large red sheep. The professional, objective and quiet approach of our Federal Minister Günther Platter contributes significantly to the high priority our executive enjoys in the population. The safety report data show that the crime rate has decreased by 6 percent. – A proof of the high level of action taken in recent years. Synergies through the merging of the wake bodies and the use of modern fencing methods, for example, simply bring success. Ladies and gentlemen! The high popularity of our Federal Minister Günther Platterond the success of the interior resort, which is demonstrated by several objective reports, was the occasion for a purely “at random” in front of the “Dirty Campaign” campaign in Lower Austria against our popular Interior Minister. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, will not be so easy to accept. Wild accusations and pre-conceptions in advance – and a embarrassing picture shortly thereafter. Let us remember the Committee on the Interior: The former BKA chief had difficulty answering simple questions asked to him. For a short time after that, he had to make a back role in court under the duty of truth, so to speak, and to maintain that there had been no instructions to him that were not in conformity with the law. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of'recoloration', some facts, some results of staff representation elections at the Ministry of the Interior: 74.9 per cent in the Security Academy for the Socialist Trade Unions Group, 79 per cent of the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection – at the "Cobra" it is much less, there must be worked there – cannot give evidence that there has been an overtonement here. With regard to interventions, Mr Parnigoni: All those in this House who claim to have never intervened as Members are not entirely credible. I see this as one of the tasks of Members to stand up for qualified personalities. Some claim that more SPÖ work has been done in the Ministry of the Interior than in the Löwelstraße. Mr Parnigoni received a black card in his home district last Sunday for his inconspicuous statements.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9071	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9093	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to go further on what Mr Hornek has just said: I just find it strange to play different groups of police against each other and act like they don't work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think the police are doing very good work, which most speakers have already said. The police need support all the more. As a Vienna minister, Mr. Bundesminister, I would of course like to address the situation in Vienna, where 280 planning posts are not occupied and we have long called for more police officers to be available. However, these failures are not yours, but they have been a few years ago. This happened under Minister Strasser at the time. I remember that we have repeatedly pointed out that it is necessary to train police officers rather than how this happened at the time; To make cuts at the expense of security. Of course, I would also like to point out the increased workload in the agglomerations, especially in Vienna, and that this also needs to be taken into account. As the question of foreign crime has now been raised more strongly, only a few sentences on this: Firstly, and this seems to me to be very important, we must distinguish between international ties that also operate in Austria and our migrants. The integration report, which has recently been presented, says in the area of “thesis on security and migration”: “It is generally noted that the criminality of foreigners in Austria is rather low in the context of the total population. (...) Crime by perpetrators or victims with an integration-related background cannot be recognized as a large-scale national phenomenon in Austria as a whole. There are (less) local areas in which hotspots can be identified in individual conurbation centres.” – Quotes. That means, of course, you have to look at the situation very soberly and realistically, and I therefore think it is so important that the question of integration policy at the federal level is now finally given a different priority. We will present a catalogue of measures to be taken in Austria at the Federal Integration Policy level. I would like to address a subject in a few sentences, which is also particularly important to me: domestic violence. In 1997, there were 1 365 directions, and in 2006 there were over 7 000. This shows something positive in itself, namely that women are confident to act against violence and to turn to the safety authorities. I would also like to say something positive about the police in this context. The cooperation between the women's houses and the police in Vienna is a very good one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to make a positive point that there is now at last enough money for the intervention agencies that it is finally possible in Vienna to occupy all the intervention agencies that there are intervention agencies in all the districts of Vienna. I think that's a big success.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9169	Next is Mrs Mag. Brigid Weinzingerzu word reported. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9193	Mr President. Minister! High house! My previous speaker and also my colleague Albert Steinhauser has already pointed out how security statistics differ in countries of origin. I'm just calling a number because foreign crime always creates certain images. In the “Hitlist” of the States from which the suspects come, Serbia is leading in front of Germany. – That's just so much on this issue. By the way, the figures have already been mentioned. In about one third of the crimes involved were committed by non-Austrians. I've almost deliberately taken the male formulation now, because no matter where the perpetrators come from, one thing they have in common: Usually, it's men. There is an exciting statement in the security report that makes a statement about the “gender structure of the suspects. ” That's what it says: ‘The tables below shall include... Data of the male and female suspects... Of course, the reported data of the female suspects can only make statements about the known crime," – no! – ‘and therefore only a part of ‘crime reality’’. I meant that in the next paragraph: Of course, the data reported can only be disclosed to male suspects what has happened to crime. – This paragraph alone is missing. Now I'm wondering, Do you believe that you actually catch every man who becomes a culprit somewhere, and there's no more culprits going through the rags, and you only have such bad information rates with the women, or do you assume, Do you want to imply the statistics, according to which between 80 and 97 percent – depending on the crime – of men’s crimes are committed quite differently, in fact, there are more women who go through the flaws only in the investigations? It is only in this way that I can interpret that you point out in particular that only the female suspects would be the reality of crime. Mr Platter, what do you want us to say? Faith You're actually saying that in crime, for example, criminal acts, sexual backgrounds, there are not 97.1 percent of suspect men, but an incredible number of women's dark figures? So your access to gender mainstreaming looks like you're suspects and presumptions: There are certainly more female suspects!, put in the room and just don't want to notice that crimes have essentially male faces? In addition, the Ministry of the Interior would be an area where Gender Budgeting would be urgently required. It would really interest me: How much does the state spend on controlling the consequences of male acts, namely in the crime field, persecuting, getting under control, and how much does it cost the state, what the men are causing, how much does the state spend on it for women? What the state certainly does not spend on is for the fight against violence. Fortunately, we have an increased budget for the intervention agencies against violence in the family, but by the way, the Court of Auditors just told us last week that the Ministry of the Interior did not meet the obligations during the ÖVP-FPÖ/BZÖ government. It should do just as much to make payments as the Ministry of Women, which by the way has a much smaller budget than the Ministry of the Interior, has not done it. Finally, the question arises: Where do I find the women in the police station? There are a few, but in total the Ministry of the Interior is not necessarily bad in matters of equal treatment. I would like to take a short look at one aspect because we have been presented with so extensive data. In another area that I would have liked to have had data from your house, it is totally chaotic. Now I hope that the figures are at least right here. Mr Minister, on my question as to how many humanitarian residence permits there have been in recent years, I am constantly getting a different number from that of you in the house itself, as if you did not yet know how many humanitarian residence permits have been issued, for example, in 2007. You've got me on 3rd. March in a response to a question, states that it was 1 064. You told me last December: Between January and the end of November it was only 460. Did you really forgive about 600 quickly in December? - I don't think so, because you're on 7th. Januaryen on the radio confirmed that it was a lower number: about 500. However, in a reply to a question at the committee you explained to me again that it was 1 064. Mr. Minister, what now?- Oh, my God! Are you really unable to answer me a simple question about a simple number? Let alone that you could give me the answer to how many requests have been made to you for a humanitarian stay! I'll just be told: There is no book on that. What is going on in this Ministry of the Interior Booked? And how many of the data you have now submitted to us might be possible with other figures if someone asked for a second or third time, how I did this with humanitarian residence permits? Management by Chaos, at least in sub-areas of this ministry, is unfortunately the rule and not the exception. Perhaps you should ensure more data security in your own field of action, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9270	Next, Mr Magistrate. Darmann speaking. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9291	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to address the youth crime mentioned in these safety reports. Let me start positively by confirming Mr Steinhauser's statement: Yes, it is true that with regard to youth crime, the convictions have declined. But, Mr Steinhauser, you will agree that in 2007 the ads increased by 15.3 percent compared to 2006, and even by 51.2 percent compared to 2001. All right, it's true. There is the disversion, there are extrajudicial solutions. But in total, one must see in the contemplation that youth crime is still rising, even though the convictions are falling. Although there are solutions other than a conviction, crime exists. Before that, we must not close our eyes, we must put on these figures to correct them, to correct them down. When I go into the increase in ads from 2001 to 2007 in detail, it is already shocking. For example, if you are using the crime of robbery – that is, a real property offence combined with violent potential – then a 267.5 percent increase in percent has been recorded since 2001! In the severe robbery committed by young people, there is an increase of 151.7 percent in ads, an increase of 148.7% in the ads in the case of burglary theft since 2001. In the case of retail trade – we know very well how often this is happening among young people – there has been an increase of 150.6 percent since 2001 in advertising for young people. These are developments that need to be countered. Here, of course, it is also necessary – and this has already been addressed by colleagues Scheibner – to intervene in good time. That is to say, it is about a delinquency not only from 14 years, but also before. We need to create the framework conditions for young people to be addressed before, if it has to be, at the age of 12 or 13 to get them out of this crime spiral. This is really a necessity for all of us to work on. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We know from the discussions that there are different approaches by all parties to how we want to deal with young people's crime before the age of 14. But the fact is – and I'm back to the point – that the other people who criticize our approaches are constantly being said that they have their own solutions to how to deal with 12 and 13 year olds. The basic condition, however, is the vulnerability again! The age of the delinquency must be reduced, otherwise all the solutions will go empty, because the judge has no chance of accessing these young people. However, it is also necessary – and this has already been said today – to increase the police's rights accordingly. Police are mostly the brahmins, Even if they intervene for young people, for the positive development of their lives, if they bring them home and wherever they take them, if they definitely tear them out of any criminality state in order to have a positive effect on their future. What happens after that? – The police are always negatively burdened, “getting one over the beet” to say it once salopp. This cannot also be accessible if the police have a positive effect on our young people and, subsequently, also on the future of our country. I would also be allowed to hold something on to the detention relief package. The number of foreigners has been raised; I am unfortunately unable to give Mr Weinzinger, but also Mr Steinhauser. From 2006 to 2007, the reported perpetrators among the foreigners remained relatively similar, i.e. there was certainly no decline. But it was so, I admit, in the convictions. But when you look at the absolute numbers, you can see the following: In 1999, all nations with foreign criminals had 40,848 foreign criminals; in 2006 there were 45,954. In other words, there is an increase that must also be countered. Especially when you know the figures in execution, you know that there are between 40 and 90 percent of foreigners in the detention centre and that this is a reason why these institutions are overcrowded. Furthermore, since no other detention facilities – as well as no one, just one in Vienna is now under planning – are being built, practically a disaster is coming up, as we do not plan ahead and do not take precautions in time to create detention rooms. The way to release foreigners in advance through the debt relief package is certainly the wrong one. This can be seen by using this solution with the three-year sentence limit and knowing what you can have done and what potential for violence you can have as a perpetrator to be sentenced to up to three years in prison. These persons will then be released from prison prematurely, only with the promise to return to their home country. They are led by executives to the border and to the supposed homeland only with the sage: Don't come back, or you'll be locked back in! These are mostly professional criminals who do not see a future in their home country. Therefore, it is very likely that they will return to their main "vocational environment" where they can pursue their activities. It is already questionable – or not questionable again – if you look at the picture here on the government bank: The Ministry of Justice and the Interior are far apart. Normally, the two responsibilities are sitting here together and working together for security in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Here, from one side, from the judicial centre, the responsibility is shifted away: The internal resort is to pay, the police are to put their health at risk again and to re-act for the Austrian population in order to bring these people back into detention. Justice is to take action again, condemn these people – and then, after the last decision of the Federal Government, the great legislators comes, drives over legal judgments and dismisss them early! That's the wrong way, that doesn't have a future for Austria. This is a damage to the security of the Austrian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9376	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9400	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! These safety reports show us very clearly where we stand and what we need to do in the future. I think it is very important that we constantly discuss strengths and weaknesses in our systems. However, I would like to refer briefly to Mr Hauser's comments, because he has put the subject of Moroccans at the centre here in Innsbruck in a massive way. I think this was a subjective perception as it stands in 2008. Mr Hauser, 2004 there was a problem... [[Abg. May. Hauser: That was a playback of a newspaper report...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Mr Hauser, the controls have been intensified, the strips have been tightened, and there are also video surveillance. [[Abg. May. Hauser: If you're quoting, please. I quoted the "Tyrol daily"!]] Yeah, that could be. But I think that a lot has been done in Innsbruck in total, Mr Hauser! I think the objective perception is crucial, not your subjective perception. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Hauser: You should take note of this, please: That was a quote!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] To my colleague, Pilz, I have a very surprising observation. He praises the system in Switzerland. I think somewhere behind is the name Blocher. The fact that fungus shows so much sympathy for Blocher has already surprised me quite a bit. Mr Federal Minister, in total, this safety report clearly shows that there have been three milestones in Austrian security policy since 2000. On the one hand, this is the structural reform in police and gendarmerie. I think there's a lot of things going on, there's a lot of broken up, and this reform is beginning to take hold. Second: With the foreign rights package, we have been able to disintegrate many things, and it is also good for the future. There are not open doors here in Austria, but we deal with the foreign law package clearly, fairly and transparently. The third – that was also said by the Federal Minister – is: The Schengen project is a success project as a whole, and the figures speak for themselves. Yes, there are open borders, there is a common Europe, but this Schengen project is grasping and working. Overall, we can see clearly: Where are we in Austria without modern systems such as DNA monitoring, current criminal files, international data exchange, prevention and information? I also think it is important that we constantly improve and optimise ourselves. That is why I would like to thank the officials today. Especially in the last few weeks, much has been criticized here and many things in our system have been badly spoken. These people have not deserved this on a daily basis, who stand there together and are exposed to dangers. It is important that we discuss openly and fairly here, and the people who implement things that implement political decisions deserve objectivity before accusation, they deserve sensitivity. That is why I think it is important that we make our contribution to security in Austria in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9482	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Hauser in word. I ask you to make the correction. to begin the claim, to counter the corrected facts and not to make a political assessment. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9511	Mr President. High house! It is not true if Mr Gahr told me that I had been subjectively insecure. [[Abg. Gahr: 2004!]] Rather, it is true that in my speech I have quoted literally only from requests or from the "Tyrol daily".
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9552	Mr President, I would ask you to re-examine § 58 of the Rules of Procedure for the next actual correction. The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9576	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The safety needs of our people are one of the highest goods. In this respect, surveys show that internal security is at the top of the Austrian value catalogue. It is therefore a key task of policy to guarantee this security need in Austria. A look at the statistical materials shows the following trend: If the total crime in Austria in 1999 was still below 500 000 committed, it rose to around 600 000 crimes by 2007. Thus, there have been 100,000 crimes in this period – 100 000 crimes that limit the right to safety for Austrians! This would not be so dramatic from my point of view. Dramatic, however, is the waste of the education rate from 51.4 percent of cases reported in 1999 to 39.4 percent in 2007. So there are 100,000 more offences, but the investigation rate has fallen by 12 percent! The question must therefore be asked: What happened in between? – On the one hand, there was the police reform under the tag “team 04”, which in particular resulted in the merger of police and gendarmerie. The question must therefore be asked: Was the "team 04" reform successful? – I have to tell you on the basis of the figures presented: no! [[Abg. Großruck: Your ministers didn't bring anything together!]] On the other hand, let me put it that way, suspects in the room that under Federal Minister Strasser started making personnel decisions not according to qualification, but after coloring. There was only one color that was important to Mr Strasser. [[Abg. Ing. Kapeller: Red-white-red!]] If you mean red-white-red is black, then that color was right for him, Mr. Cot. These personnel decisions should not have strengthened the security device, but rather weakened it. We have thousands of police officers who provide their service to the Austrians day by day and night, and there are personnel representation surveys, which indicate a high degree of frustration among the police. [[Abg. Großruck: Weakened in Vienna they are! The police in Vienna...!]] In order for the Austrians to be able to live safely again, a package of measures must be taken quickly. In the future, there may no longer be party-political post-contracts, and only the qualification may be criterion for such decisions. [[Abg. Grandruck: Tell the chief!]] [[Abg. Großruck: Mayor Häupl is the recipient of this statement!]] For this, ladies and gentlemen, the High House, transparency in orders is very important! Secondly, The "team 04" project must be evaluated and the question asked: Is the police better placed today than before? – If the result is that the police are less well placed, then the “team 04” must not be a sacred cow where there must be no change. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Thirdly, I am convinced that the police are getting more motivated when they see that their career depends only on the qualification. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Let's set the goal together: The education rate must return to over 50 percent in the medium term. This is not an impossibility, as we have heard today. For example, when we look at Bavaria, where the education rate has been 65 percent for years and is therefore twice as high as in Austria, we see that this goal is attainable.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9682	The next speaker is Mrs Stadler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9704	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Hauser, I should just like to add to your actual correction: It is true that through measures such as protection zone development by our Federal Minister and by the police in Innsbruck the Rapoldipark in Innsbruck has become safe and, so to speak, returned to the families. It is also true that you are not oriented by figures and facts. It is also true that with allegations and scenarios you, Mr Commissioner, want to assure the people of Innsbruck. – At the beginning, I just wanted to see that and actually correct it. I come to the present safety reports in 2005/2006, from which we clearly recognise – as many of my previous speakers have mentioned – that crime in Austria has fallen. Our Federal Minister has also informed us with impressive figures. Above all, the frequency of offences is also reversed: whether it be crime against body and life, whether it be with the crimes of morality. That means and shows that our police, our police officers – it doesn't get any more true, even if you repeat it again and again, colleague Hauser – do excellent work. [[Abg. May. Hauser: I have to correct that again!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But that also means that in recent years the Federal Ministry of the Interior has set the right course in order to ensure more security in Austria. That is why it is incomprehensible that there are political representatives – including in this House – who want the police, the staff in the Ministry of the Interior, actually due to individual statements, to make pre-conceptions and to do everything they can to make the security report. The criticism that we have heard more often today is that the Security Report is here on the agenda, just because there is no agenda. – Ladies and gentlemen, to deal with a security report in Parliament: Security is one of the highest tasks we have in this country! Security should be very, very valuable to us, and it is actually too bad for you to polemize. We, especially we from the government parties, should be behind our police, and we should also stand before our police if there are accusations and pre-condemnifications. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And at the end of the day, before the light “perseverely lit” here at the speaker’s desk, still to my colleague Pilz, who was not present at this debate – and he has spoken here today about the importance of people in this country. Peter Pilz is only concerned that he focuses on himself; he acts as a “super-state lawyer”, although he is actually a member of the parliament. And not only do we know, but many people outside know that it's not about people. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the people in Austria, the thousands of officials in the security field deserve it quite simply that we put forth effort and carry on with regard to security in our country. Only this is our job as a member of the government!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9759	Mr Magistrate has the power to make a further actual correction. Hauser in word. I would ask you – you have studied § 58 for the time being – to present your actual correction within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9784	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Looks like it's like: Good thing needs a while. So I'll try it again. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Mrs Stadler has claimed that I want to subjectively insecure the population of Innsbruck and Tyrol. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Kapeller.]] – That’s not true, that’s false! I have literally quoted from old requests from a former Minister of the ÖVP and from a recent report of the "Tyrol daily newspaper".
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9826	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that it is only possible to make corrections on facts, not subjective valuations. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9850	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I agree with my previous speaker, Mrs Stadler, on many points: We are also very pleased that the Security Report – which was always a call from the opposition parties – is now being discussed again in Parliament. I cannot follow Mr Pilz's argument in this regard at all, and I also miss him here in this debate. We have a situation similar to that in the Committee on the Interior, where there were no meetings because he was not present. Perhaps Mr Pilz is making a press conference or giving interviews – we all know colleagues Pilz. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address a particular problem. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! We have been faced with a new dimension of crime, particularly in the last few days, in which representatives of the state and politicians are not only attacked, but also dealt with on a daily basis. I mean the attack on the mayor of Spitz, the attempted attack in Upper Austria on an Upper Austrian SP countryman, but I also mean quite specifically the case of the Salzburg prosecutor, whose office was attacked yesterday by an early pensioner who had been sentenced several times. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this House not only has to express itself with all its emphasis, but also that the necessary security arrangements must be made to ensure that judges and prosecutors, politicians – regardless of what level – can carry out their duties. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] – The State’s monopoly of violence must be safeguarded on this issue. Mr Platter, I would now like to address a particular problem. The Social Democratic Party has become known for this and is committed to the Prüm Treaty. The Prümer Treaty is now to be incorporated into Community law. Now you can discuss how the legislative procedure was at European level, but one thing was interesting: The European Data Protection Supervisor, Peter Hustinx, has even praised the Prümer contract, because it is the only police law on data exchange that contains very specific data protection provisions. Peter Hustinx also pointed out that cross-border data exchange is necessary to combat organised crime. Mr. Federal Minister, the Social Democratic Party acknowledges the Prümer contract, which we cannot agree with, is the single entry of Germany, a single entry that should allow the USA to access the data that the Prümer contract has to contain. – I tell them quite clearly: This procedure is strongly rejected by our group. The German Data Protection Officer, Peter Schaar, made this very clear yesterday. He pointed out that the US Data Protection Act applies only to American citizens and to people who stay there in the long term. European data, Mr. Federal Minister, are not protected by American legislation, and those in America do not comply with European data protection standards. Federal Minister Platter, the appeal of the Socialist Group to you is as follows: Prevent America from having direct access to these data stocks at European level! The Austrian Data Protection Council has repeatedly dealt with the Prümer contract, last week. We stand by this agreement because we consider it to be useful because it contains data protection provisions. With a connection to America, this data protection system would be interrupted, and that is not acceptable from our point of view. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to point out that I too would like to discuss the 2007 safety report – the 2005 and 2006 safety reports are before us. We are looking forward to the new figures, especially where they relate to the new forms of crime, in particular computer and Internet crime. Because, Hohess Haus: Hands up! Money or life!, this saying is over, you only know it from old criminal films. This is about other forms of crime, because modern offenders act differently: They secretly enter computer systems, spare passwords, and then plunder the accounts. . I still see a great challenge here, which, however, cannot be solved at national level alone, but only internationally.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9923	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Kapeller. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e9944	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! The security report is always well suited to the fact that everyone reads the figures he wants because they seem suitable for his political purpose, and I would also like to support this with some statistical figures. In total, the safety report, consisting of two parts, shows that from 2005 to 2006 crime fell by 2.6 percent or by not quite 16 000 cases. – That’s a good result! Considering individual crime groups, it is even better, for example in the case of thefts minus 8.2 percent, in the case of drug abuse minus 8 percent and in the case of fraud minus 9 percent. But if someone wants to read something else out of the security report for his political purposes, he will take out other specific crime groups, for example the robbery – a plus 7.5 percent – or the simple theft – plus 1.2 percent. Therefore, the safety report should always be viewed in its entirety, and it should be noted that the direction of these safety reports, which are under debate today, up until 2007/2008, is true that a great deal of what has been reformed in the police in recent years was necessary in order to take account of the changed framework conditions. What I personally feel a little sorry for now is that many previous speakers who have “loaded off” especially on our Minister of the Interior are now obviously at the lunch table. Our Minister Platter, on the other hand, is speaking and answering today, although he did not assume any responsibility in this place at the time. That is why I am glad that our Mrs. Federal Minister for Justice is again here, because an accusation is, for example, the late discussion and presentation of the security report. This is certainly not the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, but the second part of these reports, which is to be delivered by the Ministry of Justice, has just been received recently. It was also addressed the situation in Vienna and the 280 unoccupied planning points. In this regard, it is already to be said that there is a corresponding recruitment problem in Vienna for police officers from the Vienna area and that almost one fifth of all police officers want to return to the federal states in Vienna, because it is also from there. [[Call the ÖVP: Mistelbach!]] The low or missing female rate was also mentioned. 15 or 20 years ago, the occupational image of the gendarmen or the policeman was inaccurate to women. – This has changed significantly: Many basic courses currently held have a female rate of more than 50 percent. In my opinion, Mr Heinzl, from St. Pölten, shot the bird. He has had to take a dramatic loss in the election result, but that he is now calling into question the work of the "team 04" and the merger of police and gendarmerie, which is almost absurd. I would like to conclude with three examples, which show that the police, the minister and the ministers of recent years have made a right decision. Example City Police Command, SPK, Wels. Here it has to be explicitly demonstrated that the education rate has increased from 38 percent to 50 percent. I would like to mention my home territory, the border country Mühlviertel, the quarterly comparison 2007/2008, before and after the entry into force of Schengen: There is a fall in crime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] And I would like to address the police cooperation with the Czech Republic and Slovakia – here there is now the possibility of the Nacheile et cetera. A detailed case, Mr Oillinger: In Linz a car, a vehicle was stolen, which was immediately transported across the open border to the Czech Republic. The colleagues of the PI in Linz went across the border, carried out a transfer before Krumau to the Czech colleagues, and in front of Prachatitz the car was placed by a police lock of the Czech colleagues. [[Abg. Oils: Engaged Upper Austrian Police!]] The police do excellent work, and as a police officer, I wish I had just one thing to do: that you don't beat little money by making your colleagues and their work bad! – Mr Minister, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10000	The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10021	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mr Kapeller, when you talk about everyone reading out of the security report its political purposes, I think you have done the same. You have needed the safety report in such a way that you have only looked at one year and not a longer period. There is no doubt in the 2006 Security Report that the crime rate is falling and that the Enlightenment rate is rising a little. But you have to see them compared to many years! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] – Well, not on such high rates, Mr Hornek. It must be seen that the crime rate has previously had a very high level and that is why the decline is only marginal. This decline is, of course, to be welcomed, but it cannot be sold as the very great success. I think we should be so honest in this debate on the security report. On the part of the SPÖ, we simply trace this strong increase from 1999 to 2005 to the fact that many plan posts have been saved from the fact that many Gendarmerie posts, including in rural areas, have been blocked. My district – I am from the Amstetten district – also had a growing crime rate in the previous year. This is also due to the fact that we are on the Westbahn and that crime tourism is going through there, which has been mentioned many times. – I think that we are all required here to do something about it and not always to talk everything away with beautiful words. I have already referred to it to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and it is also so, perhaps someone later, that not only in Vienna, but also in rural areas, are not all planning areas occupied, so is my home community. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder-Maier]] It is really a problem for the police that, for the first time, the planning posts are not occupied, and for the second, there are more and more allocations to the Cobra, for example, that female colleagues are in Karenz and that there is still no solution for those colleagues who are not employed in the post. A pool solution was promised in the government program. There should be such a solution – unfortunately, there is still no solution. I have not yet received any answers from the Minister, although I have often asked him how far this pool solution has been and when you can expect it. I think that, in the sense of all the people in Austria who are in need of security, we should try together to reduce the crime rate, increase the education rate, and, above all, make their work as easy as possible to officials, police officers and police officers who do excellent work.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10075	Mrs Fürntrath. Also 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10097	Mr President. – The Minister is not here right now. – Ms. Minister! High house! I am glad that we have now come back to a different content, because Mrs Brigid Weinzinger has spoken about Gender Budgeting, and that is something that, I believe, really doesn't interest anyone outside. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: But that is in the Constitution!]] – Most do not even know what that means! The fact is, we are concerned that the work done by the officials, or that what is done, is done properly that we have professionals at work. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: The officials too, right?- Oh, my God!]] And we don't care what kind of sex the ladies and gentlemen have, that's quite irrelevant! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... Gender budgeting!]] When we point out and point out the mistakes, the beginnings of the nineties and the beginnings of the new millennium, the question arises: Who did we have at the time as Minister of the Interior? – So, I can remember that we had red Interior Ministers! We had Interior Ministers One – among them the biggest mistakes have happened – we had Interior Minister Schlögl, who then fortunately already made it better. We now have God thanks to black ministers of the interior, so ÖVP ministers who make this really excellent, and this is also seen by the figures and facts! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is quite clear from the 2005/2006 report, and I am really sorry that so few Members are here now. [[Abg. Mandak: We're here anyway!]] It is quite clear: minus 6 percent Crime Rate 2005, minus 2.6 percent Crime Rate 2006. Mr Platter has already referred to it: We're on a good path! We are also well on the road in 2007; the Minister has shown this on the basis of the figures. I am also very glad that Mr Platter has addressed the latest events published in the press, and that the executive is on the right track because she receives good training because she has good materials available because there are DNA analyses and great search possibilities. And I'm convinced that the executive will explain what these attacks are all about. I wish the executive officials, the criminalists, all the ladies and gentlemen who are dealing with this matter, and also the Minister all the best! Keep going!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10191	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Berger spoke from the government bank. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10213	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make some clarifications and also to answer some of the questions that have been raised in the Chapter on Justice, either as it appears in the report or as it is at present. Among other things, the accusation has been that in Austria there is too little frequent to apply the imprisonment. – I can present you with a few figures which are very clear about the opposite: There are 106 people in prison in Austria, 96 in Germany and 78 in Switzerland. It was also assumed that we were too generously released. – There are also a few figures: In Austria, 23 percent of inmates are released due to the condition, 50 percent in Germany and 90 percent in Switzerland. I don't think anyone would come up with the idea of calling Switzerland a country flooded by criminals, for example. The very frequent application of the imprisonment in Austria has led to a dramatic overback in the Austrian detention centres as a result of increased ads and acts. In concrete terms, the number of inmates increased from 7,530 to 8,913; an increase of 19 percent in just a few years. This dramatic increase in the number of inmates was accompanied by a decline in the number of judicial guards caused by the savings plans of previous governments. At the same time as the 19-percent increase in the number of inmates, we had a 5-percent reduction in the number of judicial guards. If the police have been thanked several times for their work today, I would like to join this in, but I would also like to extend this thanks to the judicial guards. They also have to do very, very hard and very demanding work under the given conditions, and I am glad that we were able to recruit more judicial guards for the first time last year. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Kößl.]] It was also mentioned the number of third-country citizens. The fact is that we have high shares here – there is nothing to be beautify or to speak small at all – is striking, however, that the proportion of third-country citizens is 30 percent of the convicted and 45 percent of residents, but not even up to 90 percent, as you meant. So the average number is 45 percent. This also shows that, of course, in third-country citizens, the instrument of imprisonment is more often applied and reliefs can be used less frequently. Overall, we can only conclude, of course, in international comparison: that we have so far failed to apply the alternatives to the imprisonment that have developed in other countries in Austria. There has been the introduction of the division, which has also been very positive in the area of young people, but it was necessary to reform the right of sanctions, as we do with effectiveness per 1. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have decided to introduce additional alternatives once again. I should like to remind you that by a very large majority, the principle of non-profit work has been raised to a legal level, non-profit work as a substitute for the imprisonment. And this proves very well in practice. We have also implemented a reform of the conditional dismissal – with the aim of avoiding relapses even more effectively through better assessment, more stringent supervision after the conditional release and a gradual introduction back into society. With regard to the new rules for third-country citizens in criminal execution, I should also like to point out that similar rules have existed, for example, in the Federal Republic of Germany for a long time, which have a much wider scope of application. In the Federal Republic of Germany, for example, it is possible for third-country citizens to leave the country and be subject to a ban on entry even before their punishment. With us, the scope of application is a very narrower. For example, sexual offenders or persons who have been sentenced to imprisonment for crimes against body and life and who have been sentenced to a higher penalty than three years or five years of imprisonment may not be covered by this rule at all. In fact, since the entry into force of this Regulation, 14 persons have left Austria with a ban on entry. If otherwise it is not understood, then a pragmatic element: Why, if I return to Europe, should I return to that country where the rest of the punishment threatens me or there is a genuine ban on entry! Even in the Federal Republic of Germany, there has been no major problems with a much more generous variant of this scheme. It was repeated again the accusation that no additional detention sites were built. I can remind you that under a previous government the Jugendgerichtshof was detained. By locking up this Jugendgerichtshof, about 100 detentions in the already overburdened eastern part of Austria have been dropped away. My plans go in the direction that we will create 450 additional detention places for East Austria with location in Vienna within the framework of a youth competence centre, detentions for young people, for women, but also for the implementation of measures. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] So for the first time in a long time, there has been an increase in prisons. Although both today and already in a previous debate, it has been pointed out that the 2001 advertising statistics cannot be compared to the following years, because in 2001 several acts of a perpetrator were counted as one and they are now counted several times, this has happened again today. That is why the comparisons, Mr Darmann, which you have now listed for the development of the robbery and other offences are distorting. You cannot compare 2001 figures with 2006 figures because, as I said, fewer acts were counted. We've been talking about it a few times. If you say that the culpability and the criminality must be lowered below 14 years, then we must talk more carefully about what you have to do with it. I mean. I know that Mrs. Kdolsky wants to achieve through improvements in the Youth Welfare Act that families who have problems with very problematic children can be better helped by means of educational assistance. If you think we should lock kids in jail, I say you don't have me on your side. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10307	The next speaker is Mr Fazekas. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10328	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In short, Mrs Fürntrath. I would just like to say to the ministers you have addressed – one, Schlögl – that in recent years, 3,000 planning posts have been cut down. [[Abg. Kößl: They've been saved before!]] We would not have to talk about the Enlightenment Rate today, because it did not exist at the time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To my colleague Hornek – he is not inside now – I am sorry to say the following: The fact that he claims – I feel deeply affected as an executive official – that where the FSG is stronger at personnel representation level, worse executive work is being done is a political acquisition special! I can't tolerate that. I would expect Mr Hornek to apologize to all executive officials. The police deserved this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, we have already discussed this a little, but we still have to address it – it has also been discussed by Mr Kapeller – that of course we are taking the respective statistics to argue. One cannot generalize this, but the statistics are there too, so that we can improve a little. And we want to get involved, we don't want to refuse if something can be improved. That's why you have to look at this more closely. I would like to make this clear by a very special example, where one can see that there is a little lack of executive foreign service, but not because the police do not want it, because everyone knows – there have already been many police officers speaking here today, and you too, Mr Federal Minister, know it as well –: That was the nice thing at the police service that you were outside with the people. And that's just not as possible anymore, for that the time is not enough. If we look at the fact that the theft investigation rate in public places is 3 per cent and that robbery in public places has increased from 1 591 to 2 135, then it is not a sign that the police do not want to work, but it is a sign that they can no longer do the preventive work and are no longer on the road. That should be our goal, however, that we bring this together, that they come out again and that it is not the way you see it in advertising – it is, I think, a banking advertising – where someone is tied up at the desk chair and can't get out. So I have the impression of my colleagues right now. They want to get out, but they're tied to the desks, and that's already due to the reform in the "team 04", because you've got here again – that's not successful again; I've said this before – thrown the rural area into a pot with the urban area, and that doesn't work. It's the structures, they're the tasks to be dealt with, they're completely different. That is why my invitation, Minister of State Platter: If we sit together, we discuss this issue and try to bring about an improvement: in the interests of our citizens. They deserved it. I would like to thank all executive officials very much for their excellent work, because it really works. We only have to give them the appropriate framework conditions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10381	The next speaker is Mr Hursky. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10402	High house! Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! On the security reports 2005 and 2006 a few comments from my side. I would like to comment a little on the comments made by Mr Freund, who praised the good work of the officials here. I would like to join in, because the officials, especially in Vienna, do really great work, and not always under the best conditions. I would like to make a point of doing this explicitly. Also at the Geno... – “Genossen” Hornek I would have almost said; there is the horror of myself in the members – to ask colleagues Hornek to take this matter back with the FSG, because that is not right. [[Rejoicing]] Today, I myself met with ten FSGlers at night to discuss problems around EURO 2008 with them in order to do constructive work in order to ensure that police officers working at EURO 2008 can do excellent work. I would also like to say, in principle, that the EURO 2008 is well prepared from my point of view, as far as I know it. There is some problem that can still be solved, where the staff representatives will have some wishes for you, Minister. I would ask you to give the appropriate support. I would also like to comment very briefly on the comments made by Mr Gahr, because he has said something that is quite, very important. He has been talking about constant improvements, and I believe it is a very important point that no matter who brings them, it is not always assumed to be criticism, because only through constant improvement can we develop in the various areas. I personally do not believe that the Minister is satisfied with the Enlightenment Council. He will also want constant improvements and strive for an increase to the level that exists, for example, in Bavaria, and I believe that this is also a common goal that we want to achieve. I would also like to achieve common goals, for example with regard to the situation we often have in Vienna. The situation we often have in guard rooms is such that there are real difficulties, for example, because the police don't even have the opportunity to make reasonable consents. Here I would ask you that we perhaps put together once, that we look at some situation together, because there are real difficulties, there is a real need for improvement. I'd like to help to improve the work of the police. Mr Platter himself said that it was happening in Vienna. Therefore, the question to Mr Kapeller why he referred to the employment status of minus 280 in Vienna. That was not quite understandable for me. Col. Kapeller is, as much as I know, even a cop. I would invite him – I would also invite Minister Platter – to provide him with a year service in the Van der-Der-Nüll-Gasse, for example, then he will know how this really is in Vienna. To conclude: I believe that despite everything in the interior area, good work is being done, which we still want to improve and can do together. Mr Platter, I invite you: Let's talk to each other.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10448	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – That's not the case. I can invite all ladies and gentlemen to take a seat. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We first come to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of the III-5 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of this report III-114. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vilimsky, colleagues, on the increase in the staffing position in the executive. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Abg. With a similar gesture, Dr. Graf wants to encourage the representatives of SPÖ to rise.]] – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[12:55:43]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Sports on the 20th Sport report 2005–2006 of the Federal Chancellor (III-109/458 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10534	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Wittmann. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10565	Mr President. High house! In fact, this is a very, very encouraging sports report, because it was in 2004 and In 2005 there was a significant increase in the sports budget, and in principle this is welcome. It is also worth noting that sport itself is also increasing in economic importance. There is a 10-percent share of employment and a 7.5-percent share of value added through sports activities. Of course, it is important to stress that the available funding for professional associations increased by 130 percent in 2004 and 2005 to € 18.2 million in 2007, so that more than a doubling of these funds has occurred. The most interesting development, I think, can be read from the fact that recommendations concerning a healthy and sporty life result in an IHS study that could save more than €3.64 billion in health. This corresponds in about a gross domestic product of 1.7 percent, which would only be affordable through physical activity in the health sector, and I think it is worth supporting these activities, which are summarized in “Fit for Austria”, because here childhood offers activities to keep the individual Austrian in sports. That is to say, this rail will probably become one of the decisive rails in the field of public health, one of the crucial rails to bring people to sports. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] As regards EURO 2008, EUR 15 million has been made available for the 2005 and 2006 stages and for the development of the EURO. I assume that we will hold a very successful EURO 2008 this year, that we will deliver an as always excellent organization and that the images sent abroad by this EURO will also be visible. It may be worth mentioning that we have several challenges on three levels. I believe that thinking about all day school is also important in the area of movement units that will be necessary if you keep children in schools all day long to think about providing them with a sporty offer. It will be the task of organized sports to deliver this offer. Further efforts will have to be made to bring in as many Austrians as possible in health sports as possible in the sports industry, so as to keep the health care repair smaller than it has been in the past. An alarming study in the field of young people. A study has found that 50 percent of all children are overweight and 25 percent are sickly overweight, obese, so that we can expect a problem in this direction in the future. On the whole, the sports report is a very positive thing. We can also note that we are responding to the problems in the doping area in a timely and correct manner. We adapt our doping law to the requirements of modern technology. We are always trying to include further developments in this law. We are also trying to reorganise the organization of the monitoring of the doping. I believe that the cooperation here in sport is generally cross-party and that this has led to a very great success. This cross-party cooperation in sports is a tradition that we have maintained here in the House for decades. That is why I am surprised that the new election date has been set by the State Secretary for Sports on the opening match of the European Championship. I would have liked to know where Mr Sport State Secretary would have been in the party area or at the sports court. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] I don't think that would have been a good idea. But I don't think that's gonna happen either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] But in general, cooperation in sports is excellent, cross-party, and the legislative initiatives are hardly partyideological. We all want doping-free sports to take place and that as many people as possible have sports.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10649	The next speaker is Mr Peter Haubner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10673	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Estimated students of Hollabrunn Building School! They are not only interested in sports, but also in politics. Welcome to the High House! [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of Greens and SPÖ.]] The 2005/2006 sports report is an impressive work of 402 pages. From this point of view, I would like to thank the responsible officials of the Section for Sport in the Federal Chancellor's Office – at the head of Mr Pelousek's section head – for this extensive report. It is a good basis for our further work, which must be carried out successfully in the sense of sport. I would also like to say a second thank you at the beginning of my speech, thanks to the tens of thousands of volunteer officials in Austria, who work tirelessly for sports and youth every day in the associations and in the clubs and make a significant contribution to the community and to society, but also to health and sport. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The third thanks goes, of course, to our athletes, especially the top athletes, who always delight us with their excellent performances. Especially in 2005/2006 we were able to rejoice over nine Olympic winners and many world and European champions. I am optimistic, the hope for Beijing 2008 is alive, we are well prepared for it. My colleague Peter Wittmann has already mentioned it, the sport promotion is as high as ever and it is really very encouraging that in recent years – due to the results from the Austrian lotteries – the development has always gone uphill. That is why it is also important that we work together for this gambling monopoly in Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: One has nothing to do with the other! That has nothing to do with it!]] In the past few years, there has been a huge increase in this federal sport promotion, and I have already mentioned it, by more than 83 percent alone in the special Federal Sport Fund. In 2000, it was still 33.43 million, and today it is 61.22 million. Good money that is best invested in sports. It is particularly gratifying to read the sports report that there is also an increase in the individual sectors – especially in the field of disabled sports. We have experienced an increase of over 60 percent over the last three years, and projects have also been submitted. Of these, 37 projects were approved with a total of € 650 000. The promotion of the Alpine clubs is also very important, because they contribute a lot – not only for sport but also for tourism. The Association of Alpine Clubs of Austria has recently reached a dose of approximately €6 million, which is a doubling compared to 2004. Women’s sport – and this is not insignificant, as it has always been strongly criticized in recent years – has also experienced a strong increase. It was €1.7 million in 2004, and it is € 4.7 million today – if you look at the sports report – in 2006. This is a plus of €3 million. The Austrian sport roof associations also make an important contribution to the functioning sports system in Austria and face major challenges: Every fifth child is overweight, less school sports, little movement in the family. We're required here. With “Fit for Austria” the previous government has already made a significant contribution to more movement in school, more movement in kindergarten, more movement for women. You can easily get it to the point: 1 € invested in the sport are 3 € savings in the health system. We have a job here, and we also have to make a significant contribution to making it a model for young people, because we have just made a sports study in Salzburg, which clearly shows that women stop playing sports relatively soon and do not find back in sports and that children have also lost their fun of sports. So we have to do everything here to get the young people back into the sport. Mr Sport State Secretary Lopatka, thank you very much also for the good cooperation! You are always a good example of the fact that sports take place not only in the VIP gallery, but above all at the sports ground, where you like to attend club and association championships. Sport can give us all a lot and I believe that it can serve as an example in terms of cooperation and target orientation. In this sense: Let's continue the path in sports together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10722	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10743	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! It is a pleasure that we can discuss the sports report in plenary today. It seems to be true that it is not always necessary to agree beforehand on what reports are coming to the plenary session, it is also possible for the committees themselves to vote on the fact that a report will not end – even without the agreement of the club members. This has been achieved in the Sports Committee and would perhaps be a good example for other committees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] – What else would we have done today if we had not discussed the sports report? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Wittmann's request was very encouraging. To the sports report itself: This is a thick reference work in which there is a small mistake in beauty. Most of the sport promotion comes from Austria special sports promotion, known from the resources that come from the gambling business. They are gratifying – for sport – rising. Otherwise, one might consider the social policy in a different way whether the sales increases in the lotteries are so positive throughout. But for sport it is definitely positive. There is still a clear breakdown in the presentation of the funds. The Secretary of State has, I believe, at least an open ear when it comes to the presentation of the funds coming from the ministry. In that case, you have to say, there's nothing to criticize, it's all inside. There are the individual coach contributions inside, you can really look at what the money is used for. You have to say that on this point. I have always said in the last sports reports that, if we finally manage to have a similar form of presentation in the special sport promotion, we also agree to the report. Now there's such a middle thing. It is the first time that there is at least a certain list for the umbrella organisations that is divided, for example, between teaching material and administrative costs. At the ÖFB, for example, the position administrative costs – 3,5 million €, a line, a value. That's not really little. What am I doing with it now? – Now at least the wish has been fulfilled that it will be broken down, but perhaps today we can agree that we can work to make this even clearer. We have decided to agree to the sports report, so to speak, as a sign of recognition, that this will be at least step by step. But the problem is, of course, still obvious. Mr Wittmann is not here now. His comment in the Committee was then a bit remarkable. These funds, which go to the umbrella organisations – Union, ASVÖ, ASKÖ, ÖFB – are the big chunks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Precisely, we have this discussion at least with each sports report: Should these also be controlled? – They are apparently also controlled. And you have to imagine that, because the law is really inside – the BSO is also one of the promoters – that the Chancellor's Office has the opportunity to outsource the funding to the BSO. As a control body, the BSO controls the resources that go to the BSO. This is a construction that is probably only possible in Austria. The BSO also controls what ASKÖ and ASVÖ get. But there is no independent control in Austria. Mr Wittmann then said, super, autonomy of sport, that we want to have as well and apparently did not understand that there is a slight difference between the allocation of funds and the use and that which determines what is happening, and the control – at least from our point of view – is a minor difference. When it comes to control that autonomy is also maintained, you can easily enter into other criteria. I simply don't understand why – you're here at ASKÖ and Union – you don't realize for yourselves that this is unnecessary, that much of the criticism can be opened up when you say, fits, we open up, we let it control and see what happens to it. It hurts, and it doesn't matter. The impression here is that things should not be revealed – and that with a size of €60 million per year, which comes from the special sport promotion, these are not small things we are talking about. Sport is well protected in the sense, has rates of increase that other sectors, other policy areas, would like to see. But you can really go through control. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On a point which is also included: Doping. I do not think this can be dealt with entirely in the light of the report on 2005 and 2006. I quote the Report of the Austrian Ski Association: Despite the unfair attempt to throw the ÖSV athletes out of the track through a dopingrazia in the quarter of the cross-country skiers in the evening before the competition day, the activists kept the nerves. - Quote. [[Cheerfulness of Members of Parliament, Ollinger and Sburny.]] At the same time, it is not very interesting to know that there is a report from the ÖSV's control committee, which explicitly states that in some cases blood doping has occurred. This is not our report, it is the report of the ÖSV. One has to see this differentiated, clearly, not with all, but with individual cross-country skiers, with trainers and even with locks has been confirmed that there was doping. In the sports report ÖSV writes, it was an unfair measure to look up here at all. So that's not your responsibility now – it's clear to me, because there's also printing what the ÖSV brings – but the self-representation leaves something to be desired here. I think that a lot of things have now come into motion in general with the doping question. My impression is only always, we are not one step after, but at least two steps. Whenever we have just made a new regulation, the next case is that the regulation is not enough again, because exactly what has happened then is certainly nowhere to be recorded. That's what you're trying to improve. This is difficult in the doping, I admit. What I just don't understand is that you just don't take advantage of the possibilities in part. The pioneers of the number of questions in Parliament are, I believe, Mr Moser, in this area at the SPÖ of Mr Maier. But I have read the questions to the Federal Chancellor very carefully and, if so, exactly on this report, that there has been no control in the area of gyms, of which we all know that they have been envelopes for prohibited substances for years, in 2006 – the year of the Olympic Games – there has been no control in all of Austria, then the question is what was then. Now it's clear to me that probably not someone who is a top sportsman goes to the gym and says I'd like something there now. That's not gonna happen. But that there is a scene in the youth sector, in the transition area, where there is also an attempt to run sports with unfair means, that is clear to all. And by the way, the danger is probably greater there than in organized sports, because there – if you see it openly now – doping can never be taken away. But there is at least some basic knowledge of what substances can do, which is apparently not always the case in the gyms in view of the deaths that occur. I am also enigmatic about trying not to expand control. At doping, we have to try to go a way. There is also agreement that there is little or no point in persecuting athletes with criminal law, since the damage is mainly against their own bodies, but there must be the possibility of more intervention in the organized area. I have talked to representatives of the control authorities who have said that the only happiness we have in Austria is that we have a pharmaceutical law that regulates the control possibilities so far that doping cases can also be analysed through the Medicines Act. But this is, as it were, a detour measure. For example, they have clearly said that it would be beneficial if one could also examine the supply and sales of laboratories in question. This is because with the medicines, I did not know before that the delivery and what comes out in the back can be quite precisely followed the paths. This proposal was also available in the case of prohibited substances. There are simply needs that should be significantly improved. At the end of the day, once again: The sports report, one has to say, is one of the reports that serve as reference work. Home job: At last, the word “control” is understood as it belongs, namely, not to control itself, but to control it independently.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10849	The next speaker is Mr Kickl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10870	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am always glad that we have a matter with the sport, where we agree here in the Hohe Haus in general and in what direction we go. We've come a long way too. I am also particularly pleased that the Green Group colleagues are leading a hearty anti-doping campaign and are voting in favour of the fight against higher-performance substances. If the Green Group were otherwise to take it so closely, if it were to increase awareness and other substances, then our condolences would also be certain to you in this area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] – It is not true that some of what is found on a sports doping list and which actually falls under the ban ray there – and there we all agree – would not be used elsewhere. I have not heard these clear words from you yet. For the present sports report: The sports report is one of those reports where you have to say at first glance that it is really impressive what is present. I do not hide at all that we are pleased that the expansion of the special sport promotion has basically achieved a milestone when it comes to providing a sound financial basis for wide-ranging sports, which is also the basis for success in top-level sports. Something's actually done. You really have to say that deserves respect. That's something we say we can win something. But now, of course, when it comes to making more money available than in the past, one must always ask the question of how it looks with control in the use of the funds available. That's the thing we've got to hook into. Because one thing is quite clear: If there is more money to promote sport, the system of control must also be improved, so to speak, the transparency of the funds used must be improved. We are not talking about small things being forgiven there, but they are quite decent amounts. There are in other areas, when comparing this, a much stricter and much more precise system for controlling the resources used. I believe that it would be in the interests of all those who are trying for clean and independent sports to be re-adjusted in this area. So you can't completely discuss this problem. We are not helped by the fact that, at the time, I believe in § 9 and in the current § 10 there is something like a general commitment to purpose. What does this general commitment mean? – This general commitment of the funds is formulated in such a general way that everything is basically included. If you look at this sports report and look at the numbers and tables that are very extensive and very detailed, then basically everything printed there is 100% legal compliance. The interesting thing is only if one goes into detail, then one realizes that it is about as set- six-compliant as the public administration effort – the keyword has already fallen –, I wrote it down, in 2005 at 36.8 percent and in 2006 at 35 percent of the millions previously mentioned, as if any other sports club under the title administrative costs had exactly a zero position. This is what we can take into account in the sports report. The question then arises how useful it is if I have a breakdown of the appropriate use of these funds in such a way that basically everything is appropriate. From our point of view, this does not correspond to the intention of this list. Let us take another example, which is quite problematic: Doping. We all confess ourselves to God thank you very clearly to the anti-doping fight. Now, for example, when using the funds from the special sports promotion – and this is the large part of the resources that go up there – one is desperate about a position “anti-doping struggle”. There is no there in there; there is administration, there is this, there is that, but there is no such thing as means for anti-doping. Now you can ask yourself the question where you find it. Now I've been thinking, where can you find that? – Let’s look at it, perhaps under the title “Sportmedical and Sports Scientific Care”. This could be in there because we know that the doping struggle is being conducted from a crucial point of view, where it is about the supervisors, where it is about the trainers, where so to speak, the knowledge is fed in, to the athletes. But if I look at the position that appears under the title “Sport Medical and Sports Scientific Support”, I find 0.7 percent of the funds used in this field in 2005. In 2006, this is down to 0.5 percent of the total budget. So I hope that what we have for the anti-doping fight is in this area. We can keep trying. Let us take a look at “Trainings and Sporting Trainings”: From 13.3 percent in 2005 back to 10.4 percent in 2006. That is, where do we find what we all stress here in the consensus of the All-Parties – namely that this fight is worth us – where does it find its precipitation with the proof that the funds have been used for it? In fact, there is a decline where the anti-doping fight is shown. In the research laboratory Seibersdort, for example, the funds have been reduced. I don't think it makes sense to make and say, yes, we all agree, we want to be active against doping, while on the other hand there is no corresponding precipitation in the budget. Another thing – because the keyword has also fallen by the colleague of the Greens before – is: This is important, we are also for an independent sport. We are for a sport that manages itself in a certain way, because we do not want to have a state sport. We all don't want to. However, we do not want to have a party-political sport either. At this point I have to tell you something again. I cannot spare you of reminding you that, in Upper Austria, it is the Greens' policy that, because of a clearly ideological and not otherwise motivated veto of your Mr. Landesrat in the state government, there is no sport promotion for the ÖTB. He paralyzes all of this just because he has a problem with Mr Jahn. So I'll tell you one thing: If you are actually committed to the fact that sport is independent, I would call Mr Anschober today and tell him to end this blockade policy at the back of the children. This is about things the ÖTB does for the city community Linz, like for example children's gymnastics, because the town community does not bring it together itself. In such things you put the thumb screws on them for ideological reasons and there are people coming to the handcushion that can't do anything for it at all. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Discrimination!]] If we stand for independent sports, I say, also for a party-political independent. I would say take your fingers away from ÖTB and start by saying something where you have something to say and where you have a responsibility to make a different policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10921	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e10942	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would also like to get involved in thank-yous and thank someone who has not yet been thanked, but who has held the main responsibility for these reports at the time. It was Mr Schweitzer, then State Secretary of State for Sport, who carried the positive development which has been praised so often by all sides. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] I too would like to thank you for the fact that this Federal Sports Promotion Act 2005 which entered into force in 2006 and brought about a significant improvement in the financial situation in sport has essentially also been an initiative of its term of office. A short time to my colleague. Kickl: It's a bit naïve. We all wish for party-politicized sport, but it does not take place. We know that. But I am in favour of discussing this and trying to set certain barriers. But at the latest after a prominent team leader of the Austrian football team as a member of an election committee for a top candidate of the ÖVP was shown in newspapers, it is Schimär. Of course, sport is also instrumentally instrumentalized. That's bad, I'm saying right now, and you're right and you should discuss it. [[Call the ÖVP: Did it use anything?]] - I don't know if it's used anything. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But you shouldn't do it. One has to say that since 2006 there has naturally been this improved situation, with regard to the share of gambling and lotteries, with 3 percent or with the minimum guarantee of € 40 million annually. Mr Haubner, this has nothing to do with the monopoly. In your place, as a representative of a party that is always committed to the competition of the economy, I would be a little careful to speak in sport now in a monopoly. - Everything's all right. We are very pleased that the lotteries and Toto provide not only the funding, but also one of the biggest sponsors in the sports sector. But I trust the thesis that if there were a competition and no monopoly, even all other providers could submit to this rule and perhaps remain even more for sports, if the private also pay part of their added value. I believe that this should also be discussed in this direction. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As has been said, the means of sports promotion and the sports promotion law, these improvements have also been beneficial in this respect, because a very important area of sport, namely the sport of disabled persons, has been greatly helped – it has been used by the Austrian Handicrafts Association, the Austrian Paralympic Committee and Special Olympics Austria by law to access sound financial foundations here. I really think that's all right and important. They have mentioned themselves that over the last three years, this funding for disabled sport has increased by 60 percent. This is really a very, very decent and great performance. The further, increased commitment of the disabled sport and all its competitors can be seen that the money is well placed there and is also good. On the other hand, however, we have also promoted top sports, namely with the top sports promotion program “Top Sport Austria”, which puts a lot into training for top sports and is also done a lot otherwise. Maybe you'll find a more up-to-date note. Especially after the terrible fall of the Austrian skier Lanzinger, one should perhaps consider what we are doing for our athletes, who are no longer able to exercise their sport, because they have a sports disability or, unfortunately, because of an unforeseen accident, they are in difficulty, not only in physical and mental difficulties, but also in financial difficulties. We know that such a fall on the slopes or even where in a sport often means the personal fall into the groundless. That is why we should not forget that. The following also: I consider the public statements of the FIS President to be a real scandal to this Causa. As an Austrian sports politician, one should reject such a thing. That's really a horrific thing! [[BZÖ, FPÖ and ÖVP as well as Abg. May. Johann Maier.]] The last point: EURO 2008. Mr State Secretary, I would like to say two or three sentences. EURO 2008 is our main project this year. At this time, preparatory measures have taken place such as the provision of funding, Stadiabau et cete ra. It all worked great. I believe that we are well prepared for the EURO Organisation. All those who have contributed have done excellent work. But it's always that this is not uncomfortable. We have another unpleasant situation. In the previous year, it was the discussion about Bundesliga football clubs that had to go bankrupt during the season because they did not work economically. Now we know that the Austrian football league is also part of the support package via the ÖFB, where there is a special part that I would like to give you now that, through the ÖFB funding, the arbitration system is also being promoted. Part of this is in the training and training of the arbitrators. Last year we discussed the clubs and in recent weeks it has suddenly been the referees who fail completely. That should be said at this point too. The entire referee system is currently on the test and leads to a few months before the EURO sinking the Austrian Bundesliga in chaos because games have to be re-enacted because one no longer knows how this is going, because the Austrian football champion may not be elected before the EURO. I'm saying there's also a danger of delay. It would be high time for those responsible for the Austrian arbitration system to be taken to the chest and to ask them what has actually happened in the past weeks and months, that we suddenly have no good referees in this country. [[Abg. Rädler: He's doing this!]] That is also said once. This should be discussed once. I think this is important, because the EURO is a good that is too precious in the truest sense of the word – sporty and economically – that it may now be calling internationally for failure in the Austrian football league. We don't need that. Mr State Secretary! I'm trying to make your influence play strongly, too, so that we can no longer experience scandals here and move in orderly paths.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11023	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11044	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to thank all the political groups for their contributions and I should like to start with Mr Klubobmann Peter Westenthaler. He is perfectly right that we should also take the floor on the part of the sports policy where a lot of money is flowing from us – the ÖFB is suing about €15 million a year from public funds. However, the arbitration problem is a Europe-wide problem, because Sir Ferguson, who has been in football for a long time, has been terribly annoyed this week that Manchester has failed in the Cup due to a referee performance. We also know the problems of the neighbouring leagues. However, this should not be deceiving that there has been serious miscarriage among us in recent times. As a steirer and storm-graz trailer, I have suffered particularly recently. But other fans have done so too. Therefore, as the first step I have required to get to the face of how much is spent on referees and what the training of referees is worth to us. I was at a women's game on Saturday, LUV Graz against Innsbruck, and I have also learned there from the arbitrator – she has been active as an arbitrator for ten years – which stepmotherly existence also leads ladies who belong to the species of the referees. That is what I would like to say at the outset, so that I can go beyond the concrete. In all that we do about sports promotions, it is very important to think of those who are still clearly disadvantaged. These are, for example, the women in sports in a wide range. I could stay here at football. In Austrian football, the proportion of women is not even 2% – of those who are active. In Germany it is 10 percent, the FIFA cut is also 10 percent. But in order to get to the positive now, in the two years underlying this sports report, in 2005 and 2006, it was the then State Secretary Karl Schweitzer and then Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, who achieved a real quantum leap through this sports promotion law. This has been recognised by President Lösnak, then President of the BSO, as well as by all sports associations, because it has created safety for the first time in terms of sport promotion, and for the first time a clear legal regime has been adopted in many areas. When I think again of a group that clearly has handicaps here, namely the sport of disabled people, I have to say that the sport of disabled persons has been available for well over € 1 million since then. Previously, it was completely uncertain how much gets in this important area of sport – €10,000, €20 000 or €100 000. To stay in the sports language: If there is a gold medal for this area, this is the gold medal for this sports promotion law. – No lid up, very important! As a result, in sport we have the happy situation that in 2009 we were able to double the funds for the sport that the federal government gives in comparison to the year 2000. The drops of advertising, which I would also like to address, are that some federal states have understood the term ‘subsidiarity’ to mean that they have now withdrawn their sport promotion. Of course, it can never be sense and purpose if the Federation makes more money available, that then others withdraw. The Sports Promotion Act has created here a legal situation and a funding basis to which other countries within the EU really envy us. The Damo-Klesser, which hovers over it, is that – you know – a good part of the funds provided here is directly related to how gambling is regulated with us. If there is a change here at European level in terms of gambling, then we have to get something to think about as quickly as possible. We cannot guarantee this security of sport, because at national level we do not have that in hand. The previous speakers, whether the President of the Sports Union Peter Haubner or the multiple-president Peter Wittmann – as I mean now the president of the BSO, the Paralympic Committee and the ASKÖ – have said in agreement: A lot is given for the top sport. – We do not only have the EURO this year, the Federation also provides €6 million for the preparation for the Olympic Summer Games in Beijing. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a multiple of what has happened in the past for our top sportsmen and I very much hope that about 50 to 60 top sportsmen will manage to drive to Beijing. President Glavischnig and I have tried to give moral support to the hockey players at an event. They were the last team sport to try to come to Beijing and use the minimal chance in a tournament in South America. Unfortunately, we don't have a team in team sports that can take the way to Beijing. Austria is not on the go well compared with other nations in Europe, neither in handball nor basketball, nor in football. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Still in the Federal Government!]] - That's where we have to work. We need to strengthen team sports in such a way that teams have a chance to be there. The hockey sportsmen, for example, were successful at the Olympic Games. The second point next to the top sports is, of course, broadband. An initiative under the title “Fit for Austria” has been launched here, where we also generally have the situation with which one cannot be satisfied as a sports manager. 60 percent of Austrians do not run sports, only 40 percent run sports. The dramatic thing about this is that the number of children who run sports has not risen in the last decades, but rather is falling, with dramatic effects. When we look at the reports about obesity, obesity: These show that the calorie intake of children has remained the same in the last ten years, but obesity has nevertheless increased dramatically. Why? – Because the poverty of movement in recent years has been rising as well. “Fit for Austria” was designed to take a precise stand against it. Now we have added something to it, because in the budget for the next school year we have at least €1.8 million in addition available to bring clubs to kindergartens and schools. Another point that I would like to mention – because Austria has been in the shooting field over and over recently – is the entire doping area, mentioned by Mr Kickl and before by Mr Brosz. There's two things to keep apart. The first is that there have unfortunately also been doping cases in Austria. However, this is not a specific Austrian problem, but a problem of sports worldwide. This problem covers very, very many sports. We will see under which star the games will be in China. Here we are, of course, as hunters, I say, always in the back. It is very difficult to solve what we have already laid down in the law, namely in the field of pre-ventive measures, i.e. in the field of information, so that they do not fall into doping cases. Studies are also pending, as a result of the events at the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin. What bothers me is, as is done here, with anonymous ads. I don't think so. This week I visited Professor Franke, the recognized doping hunter in the German-speaking area. He was awarded the Federal Cross of Merit in Germany. He fights with an open visor and only last week did he return ads. This is the right way for me to proceed consistently in this respect. I very much hope that, in the National Council before the summer, it will be possible to tighten the criminal rules so that NADA Austria – the National Anti-Doping Agency Austria – can start well. As an independent institution of the federal government much more financially equipped than in the past, it is intended to find legal and financial frameworks that it can lead this struggle in such a way that it is noticed that we are leading this fight seriously. It's a fight to lead here. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] In this sense, I would like to thank you for the good cooperation in this area. One thing is fixed: We all hope that Austria will be on the 8th. ==References====External links==
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11101	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Johann Maier. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11125	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Synchronized skating – do you know that? – It has something to do with ice rink. The ice-cream runners show ice-cream running from the most beautiful side. Aside from triple jumps, combinations drawn on the ice work. The elements are called circle, block, mill, line and moves in the field. Simple jumps, pirouettes and lifts are permitted. Sync, speed, difficulty in the steps and variations in attitudes are required. The most spectacular, because faulty, are the traverse maneuvers, which can also be performed in different degrees of difficulty. At any rate, the whole dynamics of this group sport also affects the spectators. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have described an all-round sport that has developed within the Ice Arts League worldwide, which fills halls with 20,000, 30,000 visitors worldwide at European Championships or World Championships, but is hardly known in Austria. This young sport – and it's a young women's sport – suffers like other peripheral sports, as little is reported about it because only the sports that are successful and where the money is available. I have made this point with my intention, because I consider it necessary to discuss the sports report, Mr State Secretary, including deficits in sports, in the field of sport promotion, in particular women's sport. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to have a discussion with Peter Westenthaler on the performance of the referees, but I would like to say one thing: We have very good referees in Austria. If you look at the international reviews, Peter Westenthaler, also the one of Bernhard Brugger or Plautz, then you can see that they got the best reviews at the international games. But referees are Of course not fault-free! There is a discussion as it has also been with regard to the National Trainer. Everyone not only criticizes the coach, but also the referee. Even if there was a video proof, one would assess the individual images differently. This has resulted in a discussion, especially in Germany, that the video evidence does not solve the problem in principle. What we need – and I would like to say quite clearly – is the following: We need officials and referees in Austria! We have a deficit in football right now. An initiative, Mr State Secretary, could be to take measures to make the exercise of this arbitral activity attractive and that young people confess to it, but not only men but also women. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! On the topic of doping a clear word: There is an anti-doping federal law in which we have regulated the sports part. This area is a model law for Europe. Where there are shortcomings, on the other hand, is the criminal part. There are measures to be taken, in particular the fitness sector – Mr Brosz has already mentioned this. There is a problem in the anti-doping federal law. The problem is the assigned experts according to the anti-doping federal law. Competent experts can, in gymnastics, even though they are assigned to do not actually carry out controls. Such experts cannot perform a house search. You can't seize anything. What we need to discuss in the context of the new anti-doping regulations is the question of who exercises the role of the authorities and whether these authorities will then have the opportunity to identify on suspicion grounds. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I can only announce on behalf of my group that we will try to solve these criminal provisions jointly in the anti-doping campaign and also to see that there is a common legislative initiative in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11185	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11207	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! In advance, I can also thank the employees in the Sports State Secretariat for the more than 400-page report of 2005 and 2006. My remarks will refer to the health aspect associated with broadband. In doing so, it is important to maintain wide-ranging sports, natural movement in childhood, in the early childhood, this natural joy in the movement. The approach is as follows: the Secretary of State has already carried it out: The “Fit for Austria” project addresses four areas: preschool, school and sports club, movement and sport in operation and movement in the second half of life. School doctors always show us that the physical fitness of our children is not the best. – This too has already been mentioned. – Obesity and behavioural damage are already affecting the majority of children attending school today. This alarm sign is increased by an increased aggressive potential in our schools. In all cases, compensation for movement is also a key to improvement. Child psychologists point out something else, namely, that the motor skills gradually decrease when the children enter school. That is, motor promotion in the preschool area, in the kindergarten area is incredibly important. Why motor promotion? – It is not only about promoting craft talents, but also about promoting or exercising the muscles. Our biggest muscle in the body is our brain. This also belongs to promotion by bringing not only cognitive but also motor skills into line. This is clearly evident in music, for example. Not only do you have to remember notes, notice texts, but you also have to use your fingers, for example, to use an instrument. I consider networking in the school area to be immensely important – in the end, too, in order not to stop the joy of the movement in the pre-school area. Here it is necessary to set two accents: on the one hand, the promotion of talent – early recognition of the gifts the children have in order to finally also achieve excellence in sports, where every Austrian rejoices that “we” have won and not only the sportsman! – and, on the other hand, the health aspect. Especially in the school context, it is very important, even in compensation for computers and television. Sports activity is also important in the adult sector, for the psychological sector. Especially from psychotherapist practice, I can say that a movement program is often developed as part of the therapy to prevent or treat depression or burn-out. “Nike” has conducted a survey among women, where women ultimately also advocate that they feel stronger when they are playing sports, that they are more powerful that they also achieve their goals in life. That's a self-esteem. Mr Lopatka, in this sense, I ask you to continue the path that has begun in the government of Schüssel in the last period of government. According to your remarks, I am convinced that girls' sports are also given a corresponding priority. But I would also like to say to you: More and more is always going. I also thank all the clubs, especially the volunteers who support the sport. Breeding is ultimately the best health prophylaxis and is calculated in all situations of life.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11255	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11276	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I must respond with a comment to my previous speaker from the liberals, Mr Kickl, who accused us of using the Greens in Upper Austria not to support the Turner League for ideological reasons. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes! That's it!]] – That is true, Mr Kickl! And I'm asking you: If it is true that, according to an original quote from the Austrian Turnerbund of the Austrian Turnerbund, the “education and education claim of a nationally conscious Völkian association” raises, then you cannot demand that we support this organization, neither in Upper Austria nor elsewhere, and that there is funding with it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Do you think you have the family monopoly in this republic?]] Tell me that's not true! The documentation archive of the Austrian resistance also claims again and again and says that there are close connections between the Turnerbund, German national forces in the FPÖ and the beating citizens. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Do you want to ban us now?]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's incredible!]] If that's true, I'll tell you: For this reason, we are against the fact that the Turnerbund is supported. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] If the Turnerbund finally distances itself from these accusations or from these facts that it has a closeness to the nationally conscious, Völkian associations and is presented as such, then we can talk about it. But as long as this is so, there is a clear no to promote such an organization. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: This is immense!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Do you know what you're doing?]] And now on the theme of the day, the sports report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] – It won’t be better if you scream! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] The sports report: I repeat what some of my colleagues and colleagues have already said to the other groups that this sports report has actually improved a lot. I also do not want to say, especially in the area of women's sport, that it is clearer to read what is being done here. It would be nice – but I have already said this in the committee, and I know that you also, in part, support the fact that the associations are independent – if the associations are more invited to make sure in their own organisations that women are more encouraged to be more represented in the representations of the organisations. There is still a need for massive action, because it still needs models for women in sport, both sportsmen and women who guide the skills of the associations and organizations. If that's always just men, it's just not helpful for women in sports. Colleague Riener, too, first of all meant that playing sports for women is something that also promotes the joy of life and movement. I would like to address two other points, Mr State Secretary. In the last plenary session, when the topic of sport was on the agenda, it was about a resolution by all parties on fair clothing and sports shoes at the Olympic Games, where the Clean Clothes campaign is also included. Thankfully, you then wrote to the Austrian Olympic Committee as well as the Austrian Football Association and gave me that. There was already an answer from the EOC. I would be interested to see if there was already an answer from the football club or until when you expect it to exist. [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: No!]] It would be very useful if the football club were to put itself on the same side, because we know how difficult it is especially in the textile, sports equipment industry for female workers – and these are priority women! – is to poach on their rights. We know that in China – for example, the campaign of Play Fair 2008, where the Clean Clothes campaign is involved – is still being produced in Chinese companies for the Olympic Games, where women receive only half of the minimum wage, where they have 13-hour working days, where there are health and safety problems. If then the inspectors come to see if they are properly rewarded, then there are wrong salary bills for the controller. And then he says, Everything's all right. All these things are still present. I think it is very necessary for both the Austrian Olympic Committee and the Austrian Football Association to make massive efforts to improve these conditions within the framework of the International Olympic Committee. I am also happy about the Austrian part of the Clean Clothes campaign – we are also in contact with them. They do very valuable and meaningful work. A further look at the Olympic Games, but on those that will only take place in Sochi in 2014: There are massive concerns on the part of environmental organisations and social organisations in the region that there are both UNESCO reserves being destroyed and other areas to be protected, as well as a swamp area where the airport is to be built. There are also fears – and some of them have already occurred – that people should be moved from the area without getting the necessary compensation to sell very expensive good land here. Real estate prices in Sochi have already increased by a thousand times compared to what they used to be, where many people can no longer afford life there. Mr. State Secretary Lopatka, we spoke briefly in the Committee about the importance that it would also be more important to the IOC – also to the Austrian Olympic Committee, but also to you as the State Secretary – that the IOC should look at the compliance with international rules and standards. We ourselves have tried to get an appointment in Geneva from the European Greens. This was not “necessary ” so far. They say: It's not necessary yet. We know that the Master Plan is now being developed very slowly. – Austrian companies are also interested in participating in it massively. That is, I am very much looking for you, Mr State Secretary, to engage in this and try to move the Russian organisations on the ground and the International Olympic Committee to comply with international standards. I know that this is difficult with a country where Putin still has a lot to say – with Medvedev it may be going outside, but not really getting better inside. Pressure on the part of the sports organizations and a sports state secretary would be helpful and necessary!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11434	The next speaker is Mr Zanger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11455	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs Lunacek, you obviously have a problem with people who deliberately represent their home, but do not have a problem with people of other nationalities, because these promote you and your group to the satisfaction. [[Abg. Sburny: Right-wing extremists!]] What you give of yourself are decision criteria based on your mind. And this contradicts freedom of expression in this country and must in principle be rejected and rejected. [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] To what extent the ÖVP will still declare itself here, I would like to know, because they are in a coalition with the Greens in Upper Austria and now also in Graz. As far as I know, Landeshuptmann Pühringer himself is a member of the Austrian Turnerbund, and it would be interesting to know to what extent he refuses a promotion for a club or for a movement that does what we are talking about here: which promotes sport that supports sport especially for families, for children, and that in Austria. [[Abg. You have no wish.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I would also expect a statement from you. But now to something else: In the weekend there was a football game in Linz – LASK versus Austria Vienna. With the trains, sports enthusiasts arrived young people from Vienna, and they proved themselves very violent in Linz: They destroyed the station, demolded outlays, and had to be calmed once by 270 police officers – as far as possible. And then – that's actually a perversity – instead of sending these violent football supporters back to football rowdy where they came from, that is to say, in the train and back home, they've still been escorted to the stadium! – That the whole thing has not been left without traces proves 350 cars that have suffered damage there. If we remember, Mr State Secretary, that the football European Championship in Austria will be opened in just a few months or even in just a few weeks, we should also talk about this aspect of security today. I was with two buses with 100 children at the opening of the stadium in Klagenfurt and had to experience being pushed around between the structures and narrow alleys. Now it may be that the structure will have disappeared until then, but the narrow alleys cannot be extended. And if not appropriate security measures can be taken here, or if – I know – you are not necessarily responsible, but the Minister of the Interior – we will have a problem. Now on another topic, directly from the sports report – you mentioned it –: ‘Fit for Austria’. – Sport starts in the public school, in the kindergarten! That was the quote I took from the committee, and here there are a number of projects that are quite welcome. At the beginning of this debate, Mr Wittmann said that he saw a problem when 50 percent of young people were overweight and did not accept sports activities. – Well, there’s already a reason for this, because sports doesn’t necessarily start in kindergarten or folk school, but sports starts in the family: the parents who teach their children to run the first trip on the bike, the fathers and mothers who organise ball games with the children for the first time on the meadow that teach them skiing in first attempts. – No one says it's already starting there in the family! The family is the core of crystallization for sports activities even in later life. This means that we have to make a transition here, because these expenses are very expensive for parents: A ski equipment that costs today! Let alone, you drive a few more days of skiing: the lift cards, the arrival, there you have to eat something, drink something – these are huge loads for your parents! School skiing courses can no longer afford to many due to the pressures of the last days, months and weeks. Sports will start in the family. That is, if we want to bring people to the sport, we just need to strengthen our families – that's easy! – that means giving parents the opportunity to spend time with their children and to use this time for these activities. This is, in my view, the most important thing for the future, and this would enable us to significantly increase sport, especially in the youth sector.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11514	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11537	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! It is a pleasure to be able to discuss the sports report again in plenary today. For years we have not done so, and I am very glad that this could be decided unanimously the last time. We have not only the opportunity to thank ourselves for this excellent report, but also the opportunity to discuss the positive development in Austrian sport, which we have all jointly initiated and driven forward. Impressive are the sums already mentioned, which have been disbursed in 2005 and 2006, all based on the decision-making of the Federal Sports Fund 2005 and thus the withdrawal of the cover at 3 percent of the sales revenues of the Austrian lotteries. We all know how important it is to ensure the financing of Austrian sport for all athletes in Austria. In parallel with this increase in resources, however, we have also launched a new era in terms of funding arrangements, and these have not only ensured the basic support for sport – which is still worthy of discussion – but also took into account, above all, the social importance of sport. We know that sport is an important pillar of health prevention, the socialisation of young people, the integration of different groups of people, the prevention of violence, especially in schools, and the promotion of the economy in the Sports Trade and Sport Tourism segment. To give special project funding here, always where organized club sports enter into these social tasks, that is essential, that is important. What we really need to bring together – and this is an urgent appeal, addressed to the working groups that are currently meeting – is that we are minimizing the administration of these areas, because this is really stressful for the many officials who are very happy to take over this task for society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The hope that at the same time, at the same time, the basic promotion of sport, will ensure the very basic, fundamental work in the associations and not just to finance the special activity on behalf of the general society, is another point. Women's sport has been mentioned several times today. I am also very glad that women’s sport, as far as its promotion is concerned, has increased, that the funds have increased – and I believe that if in the sports report the term “Gender Mainstreaming” replaces the word “Women’s Sport”, which has not yet meant that Gender Mainstreaming has come into the sport as a whole. We have to be very clear about this, gentlemen. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Mandak.]] And we still have much to do here, because to promote women's sports projects, to encourage more women to participate not only actively in the sport exercise, but also in the essential area of the organisation of sport, is more than necessary. I have done personal research because it interests me and because I also carry out and lead women's promotion projects over and over again. We have a sad record right now. We want to improve them, but at the moment in the BSO, as a whole, in the management body of 15 members is a woman. [[Abg. Mikesch:... in the Union!]] - I'll talk to you soon. A little better is the Sports Union in all functions – management functions, presidents, vice-presidents, executive bodies –: 37 people, seven women. That's not a good thing yet, but it's something. [[Abg. Pepper: After all!]] The ASKÖ must be a little ashamed: 41 people, three women. The ASVÖ, at the end of the chain: 40 people, a woman. – I think we still have a lot to do with each other to improve it. And the funding concepts and the funds for them should be ensured. Finally, I would like to say very briefly, because the previous discussion has somewhat irritated me – not from the basic ideological orientation – something positive: The ASVÖ is an umbrella association that has plenty of space in its colorful variety. The ÖTB is home there, but there is also the Hakoah. And today the Hakoah celebrates a very special event: The Karl Haber sports and leisure centre is opened. I would like to say to this memorable event: In the newly built sports centre, which is now opened in Vienna, Hakoah was once part of the diverse cultural identity of Vienna and an important part of the sports life and now has its own sporting venue. In the face of a community that is now summarizing about 15,000 people, we should think that it is just more than 15,000. This number, I believe, is something that should trigger distress, and I would therefore like to take today's day to commemorate all those people who have been murdered and driven out in the years of the Nazi regime. May the newly acquired sports centre be filled with a lot of life and thus set an unmistakable sign of hope for the future. I wish the sports community to Hakoah the fairness and tolerance that our society in Austria has also failed in the sports associations and associations in history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11599	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Eder. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11621	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! The current sports report is very informative, and it shows particularly tremendous progress in the development of sports promotion in recent years. Money is obviously available enough and, as I believe, it is very well used in most areas – the positive economic effects of sports on value added and employment are undisputed and have been called more often – to support programmes such as “Fit for Austria”. They support the health system, and this should probably be one of the most important approaches to public sport promotion, and we need to make even more important in raising awareness of more movement in all areas, from kindergarten to seniors. We must be able to reverse the trend towards more movement, as far as possible through sports with a low risk potential. It should be possible, above all, to rely on media coverage, particularly on the ORF, in the sense of its public service contract, which cannot only be based on deployment quotas and commercial aspects. The recent increase in the fees of the ORF was also justified and argued, among other things, with the effort for wider sports reporting. I would particularly like to see this broader reporting in the field of health-enhancing wide-ranging sports such as cross-country skiing, running, cycling, climbing and the like, but also in the field of disabled sports, which would be worth it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Reports from the “second league” – under quotation marks – or also about large folk races, for example, hardly occur in sports channels and regional television. Such events, however, are catalysts for health and broadband sports on the one hand and for performance and top-notch sports on the other. As a member of one of the most sporting event-intensive districts of Austria, the district of Kitzbühel, where the sport of course also has a huge tourist significance, I must particularly point out this, although we should not complain about our World Cup events that the ORF would be too little transferred there. Ladies and gentlemen, in our social responsibility, we sports politicians must also pay particular attention to the fact that in his reputation, sport is no longer damaged by doping, doping suspicions and doping monkeys. Checks and penalties are important. At least as important are also measures of prevention with professional accompaniment, for example by qualified sports doctors as anti-doping agents – that might be a proposal from me. So far, there has been little funding under the title of prevention. But this is also because there was hardly any request for it. And that might give us something to think about – although the sports report as a whole is a very pleasing one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11669	The next speaker is Mr Christ. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11690	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The 2005-2006 sports report has found its way into the House's plenary session, and I would also like to thank all the groups, sincerely and absolutely doping-free, as a sports committee chairman for this unanimous decision in the Sports Committee. On the table is a comprehensive work in which the Austrian sports world is impressively represented and documented, and I would also like to thank and congratulate all those responsible for this work – with all those responsible – regardless of any couleur. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Many topics would invite you to discuss, I would like to address three very briefly: Since 2006, there has been the teaching profession of the sports administrator – a great opportunity for young people and sports enthusiasts to realize themselves in organized sports, a real opportunity to also make a career in sports, a very welcome initiative based on a concept of the BSO, the Austrian Chamber of Commerce and the Austrian Golf Association. In the next sports report, I would like to see more information on how development is progressing in this area. A second topic is the trainers and the trainer training. In 2005 and 2006, a total of 266 training courses were funded. Of the 45 so-called principal trainers, 5 were women, 15 were women of 221 – in any case far too few women. One can see a slight increase of five to six, but I think there is a very broad field of activity, opportunities and opportunities for professional realization, especially for women, and this should be much more useful in the future. It would be really important to use qualified, motivated, committed trainers together with the teachers in the kindergarten and in the public school as early as the preschool age, so that the sporty movement gets a fixed place in the daily care assignment and that it is guaranteed. The third area for me is the “SportKids” pilot project. In the area of “Fit for Austria” there are plenty of great initiatives. “SportKids” is aimed at four to seven years of age, in close cooperation with kindergarten and folk school. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: Is it nice that we have German as a mother tongue, gell? – “SportKids”?- Oh, my God!]] There, sports educationally trained caregivers test the sports motor skills of the children on site. Talents and deficits can thus be identified early, and in both cases they can best be supported or countered, all in agreement with the parents. So really a great thing, and I think this is extremely important for all those involved: for the children and the parents, for the various care facilities and the sports clubs. It is equally important for qualified afternoon care in our schools, but equally important for a health policy in the federal and in the countries. A total of 3,658 children have participated in this programme up to now. So, ladies and gentlemen, from softball to bank press, from curling to archery, from futsal to chess, from ringing to many sports, where athletes participate with impairments, there is still a lot of sports away from Formula I, football, skiing and tennis. And countlessly falsely often sports called marginal sports would require and deserve much more the light of the public, especially the many officials who work there volunteerly, and the athletes. To this end, the ORF would have a lot of opportunity, but also a duty to publish it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11742	The next speaker is Mr Einwallner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11763	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Sport State Secretary! It has already been mentioned by the previous speakers that the present comprehensive sports report 2005 – 2006 of course takes full account of the importance of sports in our country. I am also very pleased that many positive words have been said on this sports report, including by the SPÖ. If Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, in this context of course, highlights the Secretary of State for Sports Schweitzer, I would like to stress who was then the Minister of Sports and the Chief Responsible in this area, namely Dr Wolfgang Schüssel, so that one can hold it. - On the one hand. [[Abg. Pepper: We would have... forgotten!]] [[Abg. Owl: A name you never forget!]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Holy shit.]] On the other hand: A new, modern federal sports promotion law has been adopted, which focuses on the departure from the obsolete foundry principle, on transparency, cost-effectiveness and, above all, on results-orientedness. On the other hand, the reorientation of Top Sport Austria must be highlighted, in which, in addition to the targeted promotion of top athletes, special attention has been paid to the promotion of young people. More than €1 million was invested and used in funding in the years 2005 and 2006. There, young athletes have also been able to lead to the national and international leaders in addition to school training. However, I would also like to refer to the “Challenge 08” project already started a little earlier, which is to be mentioned in the year EURO. This was also strongly supported in the years 2005 and 2006 with around €400 000, and in this project or in this program there were some football players and are still those who are today the lighthouses in our national team, namely Christoph Leitgeb or Jürgen Saumel, to mention the Steirers. So we have to say that there has already been a lot of important and meaningful investment. The “SportKids” pilot project for broadband has already been mentioned by my predecessor. It should also be stressed that close partnership between schools and sports clubs could be achieved, which is very important. I also see this as a youth representative in such a way that, of course, sport is of great importance as the meaningful leisure of young people, but it is also important in the school and non-school sectors to cooperate and strengthen it. Finally, of course, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State for the EURO 2008, which, I believe, is very well prepared. State Secretary Lopatka will ensure that we can continue to treat great sports reports here in plenary in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11825	The next item is Mr Faul's speech at 3 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11847	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Unfortunately, Mr Westenthaler is no longer here because I would have liked to give him this memorial from the nineties, which was an initiative by then State Secretary Karl Schweitzer. [[the speaker holds a magazine with the title “SportKids”]] I would now like to take advantage of this rare opportunity, where you, the Minister of Education, and the Secretary of State for Sports, Lopatka, are here, to address the problem of ‘school sport’. We have repeatedly talked about this since the time of Karl Schweitzer's office, and I think the problem has remained the same: The children are overnourished, and, and, and. – I do not want to repeat what has already been said today. We have always tried to make things better with pilot projects. But finally, when we got to the bottom, it always lacked money. Mr Secretary of State, with all honour and without wishing to attack you: The €1.8 million is a lot of money, but on the other hand, it is only eight teachers per country that make up the school locations in the compulsory school sector – I do not yet involve the AHS at all. We are not dissatisfied, but we would be happy to make a pilot project for the cities that are particularly concerned with sports. Maybe it's really the opportunity to do this, because when I talk to the Secretary of State, he always says: Talk to Mrs. Minister about whether we can coordinate this with the school! Mrs. Federal Minister! Now I tell you something funny from my life, as grandfather of ten children My boys must learn to stop in school. [[Congratulations by Mr Pepper and Dr. Stummvoll]] This is so contained in the curriculum, and there is nothing to criticise it. The grandmother can't do it, the mothers can't, so we have to ask an great-grandant to stop her socks. The boys learn this in a special subject, with a special teacher. But they don't have to turn because the teachers – I don't say where – are at least as thick as I am and don't want to run sports, although they are sports teachers. I think that's a symptom: As a grandfather, I always have grandparents as teachers. This is due to the development. Therefore, I ask – and we are available as a city; the applications are with you, once in the ministry and once with you – approved our pilot experiment in the sports city of Weiz. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11907	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Sonnberger at 3 minutes' speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11928	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Marathon State Secretary Lopatka! High house! First of all, I would like to address the criticism of Mr Westenthaler: Accusing of arbitrators is not necessarily the right approach to motivate more people to become arbitrators. Whoever once bubbled himself knows how difficult that is. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's not quite easy – and it's human. We see it quite precisely on television, at least after the sixth repetition: Okay, that was really a side-by-side or something else! Deciding on tenths of a second is not so easy. – One, I think, has spoken, who has not spent a lot of time on the green lawn himself. On the criticism of the current control systems of the sports organisations, I would like to say that this is going to be empty because they are examined annually by independent auditors, in addition to the Toto Control Commission. And please, control will not kill the sport! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need the officials for work, for innovative ideas and for concepts, and if we look at the performance of the Zig thousands of volunteer officials in Austria, we must say: They do really great work! The increase in federal sports funding is gratifying. It was already €91.7 million in 2006. This is the seed that was sown by the Federal Chancellor other than Dr. Schüssel and by the then State Secretary Schweitzer – and that can now be harvested. And if you add the €40 million for the EURO 2008, which has been added in these two years, we can say: It is also financially very much done for sport. A few thoughts on “Youth to Sports. ” – We demand a better link between schools and the sports clubs. The goal and task of sports pedagogues should be that of 25 girls and boys at least 20 are active in a sports club, because this not only has decisive benefits for their fitness, but is also good for their social impact. This should therefore be supported. I remember: The biggest punishment on the part of the folk school teachers was for us when they canceled gymnastics because we were not good. [[Abg. Oellinger: Did this happen often?]] The financial air is thin for the sports clubs, therefore an appeal to the recipients of the federal schools: Don't necessarily ask 8 € per hour! There are also many positive examples where it is shown that with 4 € the outing can be found! I would like to conclude with a thank you for the great sports report and with a call to the State Secretary for Sports: Continue to visit, as in the past, also the peripheral sports! It is very good for the representatives of these sports that you are not only with the great ones of the sport, but also with those who do excellent work in their shadows. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11977	The next item is the speech by Mr Fazekas at 3 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e11998	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Madam President. High house! Now we are on a subject where there is broad consensus, and that is good and positive. On this issue we can always understand, and this ultimately serves for sport and also for our country. Sport promotion is an essential and important incentive to bring people to sport because something can be offered. It is therefore also important that the framework conditions are also appropriate. I can only point out that many projects are being carried out together with the municipalities, with the municipalities and with the federal government. At this point, thank you very much to our Federal Chancellor and Minister for Sports and also to the Secretary of State for Sport! We just recently took the floor for a table tennis academy in Schwechat – keyword: Werner Schlager – which will have a central importance for Austrian sport in the future. Mr State Secretary, a small correction: It won't be like no team is going to the Olympic Games. We'll have a table tennis team, a team. [[Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka: That's not safe yet!]] That's not sure yet, you're quite right, but I think you're going to qualify. I consider it particularly important – that has already been addressed – to start sports as early as possible. In the family too! That's what I'm going to give to my colleague, Mr. Zanger. Only: It can't look that on Sunday morning, Mama will bake out the schnitzel and the father will go to the sports court with the child and then in the afternoon the dishes will be washed off from the mom and the father will go to the tennis court. It's got to look different: If, then all share to the same! I think that's very important. It is also necessary to point out that we should not forget apprentice sports. There are a lot of young people who, especially in the difficult stage of development where they have to learn a profession, have to work hard, also work physically, need to be compensated. Therefore, we should remember that we also have to specifically promote apprenticeship sport. It must also be possible to provide financial resources for apprenticeships. In the field of broadband we must not forget the following: If we want a lot of people to do broadband, then we have to try to make sure that it is also manageable. It is very difficult for many people to afford a holiday for sports. That means: In the area of tourism, we must have in mind the interests of the economy and also the feasibility for the families. There is a reasonable balance to be made. We must also remember that many sports drivers – including those who perform performance sports – remain on the track after accidents. And I would only like to mention to Mr Westenthaler once, when he says that it is necessary to deal with this, if athletes who run performance sports have an accident that we must not leave them in the rain, but rather take care of them. A warm thanks to the Federal Minister for the Interior and the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State for the fact that in these two ministries sport has also become the stated goal and that there are also service exemptions. Finally, a warm welcome and great success for the Austrian football team and also for the team in Beijing – for our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12035	The next item is Mr Zweytick. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12056	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The very good sports report was already described as very positive. I agree with this assessment, because this report is really the basis for a successful sports policy for the entire population of Austria. Like my previous speaker, I also believe that sports have something to do with movement in health. Sports are very often subject to the trends of time, and there are also sports that benefit greatly from sports promotion, although they, like golf, are not really exercise sports that promote health for our people. There is a real urgent need to do more about this because the data speak a clear language: 60 percent of the population does not play sports, and 50 percent of the youth is overweight. Therefore, one really must give greater priority to those sports that have more to do with movement and less with a golf hit. The highest sport promotion comes from the field of gambling monopoly. Special sports promotion by Lotterie and Toto is an essential contribution to the improvement of Austrian sport since 2003 because there is more funding for more than €30 million per year. But that alone is certainly too little. I will now come to EURO 2008 on a subject that will touch us in a few weeks. As an organizer country, Austria is lucky that we do not need to qualify for participation in this competition, but it is already to be noted that we did not bring it together as a football olympia team at the Olympiade, for example. Now I'm going to take a short look at the football performances. What has happened in recent weeks, especially in the arbitration system, that is not good, also for the development of Austrian football towards quality. Then: When football games are subsequently cancelled by the top Senate of the ÖFB, because there are television recordings, where it is not clear that: If the ball is behind the line or is it right on the spot?, then it is annoyed by large parts of the population who promote this sport, namely, the zig thousands of spectators who visit the football games on the weekends in Austria's football courts. It is not only annoyed, it creates very negative emotions. This does not do well for football and, of course, does not affect fair competition, because it also affects the edge of the tables. There's no more fun and fun at the football. And in this context, the many volunteer officials must also be mentioned. It also depends on the number of spectators and on the financialability of the clubs and the feasibility of sports, if from above it is intervened as it has happened in Austria in recent weeks. Mr. State Secretary Lopatka, who was in Manchester not a time trial of TV, but a live story, and I mean – and this also applies in Austria – arbitration decisions are factual decisions, and this also has to be respected by the highest Senate in the public sector. Decisions of fact may also be misjudgments. There are people at work, and I mean, if you practice acts against fellow players behind your back, then you can suspect them, but certainly not referee decisions. They must remain factual! There you should take back so as not to make the whole football sport more and more popular. That's my request! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12102	The next item is the speech by Mr Keck. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12123	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! The sports report is a 400-page witness to the Federal Government's activities and commitment to sport. Ladies and gentlemen, for an observer of the sports club VOEST, that is, for a person who knows the business and practice of sports very well, that sum is an important indicator indicating the annual federal sports equipment. In 2005, it was €80.4 million, and in 2006 it was even €91.7 million. So we have seen an increase of more than 14 percent. And in addition, the constantly colported sports billions were realized in Schillingen. By the way, this sum has been increased in 2007. As in my previous speeches on the sports reports, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention today again the good measures under the Austrian initiative “Fit for Austria”, for which the current sports report shows expenditure of €1.17 million. As the IHS has also noted in a study, sporty commitment can result in more than €3.6 billion or 1.7 percent of the gross domestic product in savings effect. This is an amount that could be a massive aid to our affected health system and would give people first and foremost a health carefree life. That's exactly where the projects start by starting, for example, actions such as "SportKids" in the preschool age. Another highlight of this sports report is the fact that more than 20,000 students have participated in actions such as the “spark7 SLAM Tour” and have really participated in all the well-known sports associations, from ASKÖ to ASVÖ. In addition to children and young people from 67 schools, distributed throughout Austria, “Fit for Austria” also includes measures for movement and sport in operation or Also actions such as “Fit for 50 plus”, in which 20 000 consultation talks and 1 800 tests were carried out in 33 cities. Ladies and gentlemen! You see, sports is more than mere pastime. This report, which has been presented here and today, bears a good witness to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12177	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Sports to take note of this report III-109/458 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[14:36:34]] 4. Point Report of the Committee on Culture on the Government template (414 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Establishment of a Fund for the Promotion of the Contributions of Independent Artists to Legal Social Insurance (K-SVFG) (459 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 17/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues regarding a federal law establishing a federal law for the social protection of artists and the K-SVFG (K-SVFG) BGBl. I No. 131/2000 idF BGBl. I No. 136/2001 is repealed (460 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12233	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Dr. Zinggl. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12260	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For seven years now, we have been doctoring this “Künstler-Sozialversicherungsfondsgesetz” (Künstler-Sozialversicherungsfondsgesetz), always with insufficient resources – aspro, plasters – and it doesn’t go so well. Already the name “Künstler-Sozialversicherungsfondsgesetz” says that it is a construction of rails and crags that does not really meet the needs of the art-makers. What do artists need? – You need a network, a social and a financial security, at least no excuses within the framework of laws that only pretend anything. The central disadvantage of this long-term social security legislation is the limitation of a grant to the pension scheme. sion insurance. This is what we have been saying for seven years now: Unlike those who do business, artists do not receive any sickness or unemployment benefit! They have no money either if they lean for years and work on something, not knowing whether this will guarantee their initiative a success. But if they are successful, then we are all proud, then we are all proud of the Oscar, then we feel like Mozart and Klimt, but that these achievements also need a feeding ground, that does not see any government and that also you, ladies and gentlemen of the other parties, do not see. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have introduced a legislative initiative which is precisely concerned with a proposal that provides for 900 € per month as a security for artists who do not just reach this amount. It is a kind of basic guarantee – sure, for a certain population, for a professional group. But I cannot understand at all why the liberals in the committee, but also the representatives of social democracy, suddenly argue that this is a preference for a professional group, and if there is to be a basic guarantee, then there should be it for all. Well, yeah, we agree. Basic security for everyone! But where is she? Collaborator Pilz has made fun of the government, about two hours ago, which today brings together nothing but the revision of the Baustandercontractsgesetz and the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz. I can only say: But that's not really what the artists wanted and want. There has now been a rally at the Minorite Square an hour ago, the Cultural Council and the IG Culture and so on all do not agree. All demands, all wishes were completely ignored. It is also not what the SPÖ wanted, at least originally, because before the election, Mr Muttonen – and I can remember it very carefully – had asked for something different in press releases, but also all the other representatives of the Social Democracy, in press releases, because the lower income limit was presented as a negative. Even when you take office, Mrs. Minister, you have spoken about the fact that this lower income is not sustainable as a condition for the grant. You have meant that this is an intolerable situation and you want to end it as quickly as possible. Then months have passed, then you have said until summer you will make it. When I asked myself what it looks like, She said: Let yourself be until after the summer! – And now we are so far that this income limit still exists. I can also recall, Mrs Minister, that in the autumn – in the ‘profile’ I at least read – you said that you would have liked to change this by regulation, but the coalition partner does not play with it. It says it needs a change of law, and you don't make it. Well, that didn't work out. But not even at another point, you could make a change, namely as regards the outdated art concept, which is the priority of the quality of the works and which serves as the basis for assessing whether someone is an artist or an artist, for the bodies. It is not even changed that a body decides, for example, whether a movie is a flop or not. So that's something the government really should have brought together. The whole art scene laughs about it. I'm really wondering: What about a writer when she writes for three years in a novel and doesn't finish? She's getting this grant to the pen- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Apart from that, we believe that this is all far too little anyway. That's why we also introduced this model of social security with €900. You hardly discussed that, you don't care much about it. I ask the Social Democracy: Is it so she doesn't want to? Is it true that it also does not want to abolish this lower income, or can it not only prevail against the coalition partner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12335	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12357	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Zinggl has already raised a number of points of the novel of the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz, including critical points that have been the subject of negotiations in recent months, which have been discussed very thoroughly with experts and interested parties. Finally, these discussions have led to this novel, which, if I may say so in advance, will provide a further step in the right direction, and I think it is a good development. Ladies and gentlemen, before dealing with detailed questions, let us take a clear look at the following: Our and also the concern of Minister Schmied was and is to improve the social situation of artists. We know about the financial situation of artists, and it is our concern to achieve improvements here. If one briefly recapitulates the development: After artists as self-employed were included in compulsory insurance, the creation of the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds wanted to support those artists with low incomes. As such, this artist's social insurance fund was finally designed. He supports the artists with low income through a grant to pension insurance. We have always stressed that this is not an insurance for artists, but a support in the form of a grant from the fund. However, it was clear from the outset that the decision in 2000 could only be a first step. And I am pleased that it has now succeeded in taking a second step, a second step in the right direction, a step that will not solve all the problems related to the social security of artists, but which will greatly improve the situation in many areas. Let's look at the improvements – what were the main criticism points? One of the main criticisms – Mr Zinggl mentioned this – was that the grant was only granted for pension insurance. Here a substantial change enters into force: The grant can also be used for health and accident insurance in the future. This is especially useful for those who have low incomes. Another and ultimately the most massive criticism was the repayment claims. The recoverys were effected by the fact that artists and Artists either have earned too much or too little, but the law does provide a lower and a higher income limit. The lower income limit is the so-called low-security limit; it is currently at an income of €4,188 per year. In particular, the recoveries of groups of persons, which already have very low financial resources, have legitimately led to discussions and discussions. And I am also aware that there is a desire on the part of those concerned for the replacement of the lower income limit. This point also played a very important role in the negotiations and was discussed very intensively. Here, however, one has to see that it has been doubted by several sides that such a deletion would be constitutional. Therefore, another way has been chosen to elucidate the problem of recovery, a way which, admittedly, does not really simplify the law, but provides legal security. It is new that in the event of recovery, apart from numerous economic factors, a number of social components are also taken into account, which I cannot address here for reasons of time. However, I would like to stress one particular point: In future, incomes will also be taken into account if income below the income limit is not included. In other words, if an artist at least shows revenue at the level of the lower limit, the recovery must be waived, and this can be done five times in an artist's life. I think that is an essential step. This measure and all the other measures will ensure that hardships, as they have always occurred in the past, can be corrected and that there will hardly be any recoveries in the future. At the end of the day, I would also like to say something atmospheric. The expectation of the novelle on the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz was enormously high, which is no wonder in view of the stagnation of the past seven years. Although not all the wishes expressed by the stakeholders can be received, I think that the compromise reached represents an important, substantial development that will bring about an improvement in the social security of Austrian cultural creators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12418	Mr Kurzmann is next speaker with 5 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12439	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party will agree to this government proposal, namely the renewal of the Artist Social Insurance Fund Act, but will not support the Greens' request. The main reason for the approval of this government template is that we believe and believe that this is a sensible development of a law. The fact that some €30 million of funding has so far been provided to artists for compulsory insurance, that is for itself. Since January 2001, self-employed artists in Austria have been pensionable and sick in accordance with the Commercial Social Insurance Act and have also been insured with accident after the ASVG. In order to ensure better social protection for low-income artists, the legal basis for granting grants to the contributions of statutory pension insurance was created in 2000 and the grant of these grants is being granted by the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds. Of course, this solution – as was already criticised by the first speaker – does not create real social insurance for artists, but, as expressed in the broadcasts of various associations, they are certainly not pushed into the role of bitters through this solution. My previous speaker has already mentioned the improvements, the innovations that are positive. The contribution grant can therefore in future be granted not only for contributions to statutory pension insurance, but also for contributions to statutory health and accident insurance. There is the Valorisation scheme for the income limit, and there is also the introduction of a looping scheme for the repayment obligation of the contribution grant if the income limit exceeds or falls. The Greens' request goes far beyond what is to be decided today. There is clearly a need for basic protection here. This is a fundamental question which is already being raised here: Basic security for a special group – where does the principle of equality remain here? In this context, I remember a discussion by Norbert Readers, whom he did many years ago. The article, if I remember it correctly, had the title: The art must be free, but not until the arson. Norbert Readers noted at that time that artists are not exceptional people, they do not have an exception in society, but, of course, like all others in this state, like every citizen, they are subject to our laws. I fully share this view, and I also believe that art in Austria depends far too much on state subsidies compared to other countries. What is missing – and that would be the free-lance approach – is the strengthening of private art sponsorship. This would, for example, be a rich field of activity for the Minister of Finance. He could create the necessary conditions for this. Quality, ladies and gentlemen, always prevails, even in the field of art. Averages and below averages do not necessarily have to be supported by public funds. It is striking that those who always talk about the freedom of art or the independence of the artists, about the independence of the artists, then suddenly speak of total social security or demand this total social security from a society that sometimes doesn't feel very connected. This is a contradiction which must also be pointed out here in this House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need, ladies and gentlemen – and I therefore come to the conclusion of my statements – not a state artist in this state. We do not need artists who depend on politicians or who feel dependent on politicians, just as we saw this a few days ago on a low-Austrian example. In fact, just before the election Sunday, there have been advertisements where artists have spoken out for a particular politician and have issued election recommendations within the framework of the Proponent Committees. [[Abg. Rädler: Just no envy!]] Art and culture, ladies and gentlemen, should be able to develop freely in Austria. That's what we stand for. And politics should not interfere as much as possible in questions of art and culture. The Freedom Party as a social home party will therefore support this government template. However, we strongly reject the total privilege of a certain group.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12484	The next item is Mr Morak's speech at 5 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12505	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Stagnation, Mrs Colleague, looks a little different in my imagination. – How did this law come about at all? They will all remember the ASRAG, the Labour and Social Rights Change Act, in the nineties, where then suddenly a great protest storm of the artists who said: Where are we going now? We can't be right anymore! I would remind you of the first initiatives taken in this respect by Mr Wittmann. He said, well, then we'll ask the people who basically use art to cash out. Then there was a call from the ORF from the then art chancellor who said: Friends, of course you don't get any money from us, and the thing was dead. The same took place at the Burgtheater, at the Staatsoper and so on. The little cellar theater remained, and they said: Friends, what are we supposed to pay for this? We don't have any money anyway! And that was the truth. Then there is a wonderful word from Mrs Hostasch, who said: An artist social insurance? How do I explain that to my Billa salesman? – From a trade union point of view, I would like to say that is also the truth, and this should be done. That is why we have said – and I now come to this “stagnation” that began in 2000 – no, there is quite a possibility that was basically built up at that time similar to the charges of ORF and monument protection: We ask those who leave no value added in this country, which are, in fact, cable operators and satellite providers. This is what this fund feeds on. And that's what you call stagnation. Greetings to God, Mrs. Colleague! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we have drawn up a law that has lasted the times. The competent expert who has examined this law, Professor Mazal, has confirmed the law, it is much better than the Künstler-Socialversicherungsgesetz in Germany, because it is particularly active in this area where the poor are really at home. And that's what I have to say now: Negotiations were carried out by the spirit that we wanted to improve something in this area, on the basis of the experience of those people who implemented the law. Thank you here for Professor Popp and Mag. Stoss, who worked here at the "Front" – under quotation marks – and had daily contact with the artists. And I think, on the basis of this experience, we have succeeded in some changes that improve the administrative capacity of this law, because of what we have done in the coalition negotiations: After an evaluation, we are based on the system of this law, which is one or the other I believe that it has been largely successful. I don't understand the demands that I think are their highlight in the fact that there is – I quote – free-lance artists with the right income and a flaw for lotteries and alms. – This law is exactly the opposite, and I think, Mrs. Minister, we have achieved something positive here. I think it's good to be able to stand there and you can stand for it. I mean, in the near time of the proof of truth from the administration of this law, it is a good thing and that we have helped the art square of Austria a step in the right direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12569	The next item is the speech by Mr Schalle. Do you still want to start with your explanations? [[Abg. Sound knows this.]] Good. I will then have to interrupt you at 3 p.m. to carry out an inquiry. - You have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12596	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To the government template to be voted on today, which amends the Federal Law on the establishment of a fund for the promotion of the contributions of the independent artists to the statutory social security (Künstler-Sozialversicherungsfondsgesetz) it is essential to say that the first stretch of the grant will also lead to the health and accident insurance for the Künstler-Sozialversicherungsfonds (Künstler-Sozialversicherungsgesetz) of € 810 million per year. Although in 2005 the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds already paid € 5.5 million in total, it is not understandable why, starting from 2006, only €5.2 million is expected here. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] In addition, an annual total amount of grant payments for the Fund is expected to amount to around €6 million. In view of these assumptions, I have great concerns and believe that this fund is being exploited very quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12626	Ladies and gentlemen, I am now interrupting your speech. They will, of course, be able to continue after that. I interrupt the negotiations on points 4 and 5. [[15:01:00]] Short debate on the response to the question 2957/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12651	We shall proceed to the implementation of the brief debate on Question Time 2957/AB. As the above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having 10 minutes of speaking time available. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: I'll wait until the Minister comes!]] - Wait, wait! You're perfectly right. We are still missing Mr Faymann. [[Federal Minister Faymann goes through the ranks of SPÖ delegates to the government bank.]] Mrs Dr. Moser, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12693	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If the Federal Minister is so kind and walks through the Members' ranks to the Government Bank, I am of course pleased because this may be an expression of how much he appreciates Parliament. However, if the Federal Minister formulates an answer to a parliamentary question in the way he says: “On questions 5 to 17, I would like to point out that an audit by the Court of Auditors on the conduct of the ÖBB is currently under way, and it is not possible for me to answer the questions you have asked before the publication of this report,” I say that this is a disregard, yes, it is just an outrage for parliamentarianism! [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] The Court of Auditors is known to be an institution of Parliament, and as parliamentarians, we are primarily entitled to answer our questions, regardless of whether the Court of Auditors is now examining or not. Mr Minister, please do not just go through the bank series, but acknowledge Parliament with correct, precise and complete answers! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] That is the first reason why I would ask you to give us a more precise speech and answer. The second reason, Mr Minister, concerns the matter. We know the situation manager salaries. To this end, Mr Minister, I have brought back once again a report on the Court of Auditors with all the details, particularly the improvements in the salary of the ÖBB. I have now read again in preparation for this meeting and I have become found. Let me tell you now that the increase in holding salaries in the top management area of ÖBB in 2005/2006 was plus 41 percent. And why, Minister? And that's what I've come up with in detail about the subject of our questioning: Therefore, because ÖBB dissolved Group reserves, and also because the parent company ÖBB Bau AG repeatedly made real estate transactions through its subsidiary Immobilien GmbH in order to improve the balance sheet in order to adorn the salaries in a premium way – but unfortunately, I am afraid, also to the detriment of taxpayers, as we are already black on – I have also brought it – raw parts of the Court of Auditors report. And I would like to discuss this with you today, Minister. Why did you not answer my questions about the object Erdbergerlände? Now let me tell you what it is all about. Postbus AG had a relatively large area in Vienna-Erdberg. This area sold the real estate company and settled the mailbox. The mailbox also sold it via the real estate company. The mailbox had to find a new area for rent. And where, do you think, is that? – On the Raiffeisen site in Vösendorf. [[Abg. Oils: Oh!]] It is already very strange that, contrary to a sustainable long-term real estate policy, areas are sold, and elsewhere, some of them have to be leased worse, then. That alone is a fact which the Court of Auditors complains of in its raw report. He always says that there is no overall strategy in the real estate management of the ÖBB, going to what is now to be sold, what is to be developed, what is focused on. I am allowed to compare this current Kuddelmuddel policy, possibly at the expense of taxpayers, in order to compare what has been done earlier. I inquired. I've been working intensively on it. In the past, the ÖBB management has put emphasis on lubrication of the existing areas, the real family gold, I can say not only table silver, the ÖBB in the form of building law grounds, say year after year of lease income, or rent, say to get revenue year after year, or perhaps also to develop additional and then to lease, i.e. to manage annual revenue. In times past, only in extreme emergencies, if one really did not need them, were valuable real estate sold. Now, since the black and blue-orange government, the best quality real estates of the ÖBB come to the market and are simply increased in a completely opaque way, partially shifted under friends and partially sold with a proceeds, where you wonder why no longer was successful. Unfortunately, you will only read this criticism in three months, because you do not have a raw report like me. You will only be given the final report of the Court of Auditors. That's where you can read it. All valuable downtown properties were not decided strategicly, there was no auction among the best bidders, there were no envelopes, so the same expert has been used over and over again, buyers have come to the train that is interconnected. Minister! You'll explain this to me now: Who's lucky to have bought Erdberg? – The real estate company, where Strauss played a role, the same one who bought Elisabethstraße 20, which is also in contact with a member of the Supervisory Board of Kapsch, who bought himself on Elisabethstraße and then returns to Erdberg. And not only that he's coming to the train, but he's coming to the train cheaply! And with a 15-year rental contract, he can complete the whole of the contract, where the ÖBB will again hire, which eventually sold before, at a relatively high market price. Originally it was €9. I am replying to the questions I have asked myself, because the Minister refers to the Court of Auditors' report, which I am fortunately already present. That's why I can tell you: 25 percent higher rents were then fixed contractually. Originally it's called 9 €, then the Rail Cargo is supposed to hire in, and it notes it doesn't need space for 850, but for over 1,000 employees. Therefore, the air conditioning is too small. Now is invested in a larger air conditioning, and for that the Rail Cargo is allowed to pay a 25 percent higher rent. Finally, not more than 1,000 people are accommodated there – now the Clou – but in the end only 840 will be accommodated. That's where I wonder who's paying the bill. And I am afraid, Minister, it is you and the taxpayer, it is the public owner and the taxpayers who in this case make substantial profits for private investors in the medium and long term. The example of Erdberg is only so striking because here the same circles are spinning their threads and then the same people come to the train. This is also so significant, because you still have to imagine that the real estate company within the ÖBB – Mrs. Steinacker is there at the plant – cashed the double commission. This cashed by the parent company, by Bau AG, commission, which cashes commissions from the mailbox. And then the salaries in the real estate company rise – you can read again in this magnificent red Court of Auditors report! – then again, Mrs Steinacker’s salaries rise; I can read it to you: plus 52 percent within the period 2005 to 2006. I mean, this has become a self-service shop, Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You, Minister Faymann, do not answer questions, do not touch a finger so that once clarity is created within this – and I must now express it in the sense of the Court of Auditors – mismanagement and wait until again opinions are on the table, instead of drawing on the Court of Auditors' raw report, acting on its basis and then finally sending this form of management into the desert and making correct, clear, reliable, transparent business operations in the ÖBB a daily business, because they unfortunately exist in the real estate area according to the templates, according to the documents made available to me by the Court of Auditors indirectly! Mr Minister, I take you in your political, social-democratic responsibility: You have to intervene massively! It is not possible that only the small creatives will stop their heads, that the locusts for the ÖBB mismanagement will be beaten, that really also the passengers have disadvantages. I don't want to talk about taxpayers who invest massively in the ÖBB, in the tunnels, in the large infrastructure investments. On the other hand, in the very simple real estate business, it is really not yield-optimising. There is also no documentation – you will have to read it yourself – no documentation on the sale of certain ÖBB real estates, nothing! It's all so shifted and so tried, and then it'll get anybody. Others then receive commissions as real estate company and higher salaries than managers. That, Minister, must have an end now! They intervene – and not only put the ASFINAG board members on the gold scale, but above all in the management of the ÖBB, you have to intervene massively! Otherwise, I see black for your political future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12773	Mr Faymann has now spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12794	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Moser, there are, of course, a number of allegations that you have made in connection with the raw report, which have been torn out of the context if they are so proposed. If you know them in connection, then you need to distinguish and distinguish more. Speaking of real estate management in general. There have been many years, I would like to say almost decades of custom, that once you have been accommodated in any area, or if an extension or a new building is desired at a station, you will charge the costs together, so to speak, send them to the Minister, and he will charge the money for it. The idea that you also develop real estate, the idea that you also earn money with real estate management, the component of railway stations, of railway expansions, of changes in administration, of developments in the office sector, this idea was once right. And even if it has been developed in the last legislative period, I believe that this basic idea, just as it is in the countries and in many other areas, is correct from the principle of developing real estate. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The second question must therefore be asked: In the development of real estate, which has been a new idea at the ÖBB, have initial errors or errors occurred, as they, when working, are not in principle excluded? And what mistakes were these? Are the conscious mistakes that need to be investigated? Is the mistake that happens when you build up something like this? For example, an accusation that I know exactly, of course, there is no catastrophe, the documentation belongs to improved, et cetera. Is the error which the Court of Auditors is gratefully pointing out and which one has to address immediately, but which are quite clear in the field of a new business? And there are a lot of such proposals from the Court of Auditors; I know the raw report, too. There are a lot of proposals that go in the direction of saying that there is basically a right path here, but in detail there is much to be improved. And of course, these proposals for improvement must be addressed. To explain to you that the raw report now gives the company the opportunity to reply and perhaps to clear one or another objectively is not necessary; you know, we all know that. That is why, I assume, the final report from the raw report, as is usual, will still differ. So I cannot tell you today exactly what areas are being cleared up here in detail between the Court of Auditors and the management of public administration, in answer to the open questions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Moser]] That is why I have not considered it useful, nor in this particular point. During this process of very detailed answers, as well as of a very concrete project, which was clearly dealt with at the operational level in the ÖBB and which has nothing to do with questions of general political right or wrong assessment, but which are very factual and operational, I did not think it would be useful to give you a partial reply now, since I myself know that after the raw report and the replies that will take place, a final report will follow, which will be much more precise, detailed and better able to assess this than I could do with an opinion today. That is why I have actually avoided, out of respect, using responses to Members, how this has happened very often in the past by saying that we do not say anything about all this branch of the ÖBB. In many areas, as you know, it is not as easy to answer under the ÖBB structure law and also under the stock law. I have not moved back to this position, where there are hundreds of responses from the last legislative period, which have gone in this direction, but have so far tried to answer so detailed operational questions, even where it is not so easy for me, because it is about daughter subsidiaries. In this case, I try to answer your very diverse, detailed, frequently asked questions in the interest of the House just as serious. Therefore, I would ask you to understand that, when the Court of Auditors has a raw report, which is now in the final phase and is moving towards the final report, we are waiting for the time when the final report is available, so that we can discuss a really serious outcome here in a serious way.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12852	Mr Haberzettl is now speaking. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of the next speakers is 5 minutes each. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12873	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is basically right for the ÖBB to participate in international trade fairs with its real estate department, on the one hand, to establish contacts, on the other hand to exchange experiences and, on the other hand, to learn. However, the question of cost-benefit comparison is very well raised here, and it is related, I believe, to the decision which persons participate in the fairs or in an exchange of experience. The question of the strategy in the real estate sector of the Austrian Federal Railways is also crucial. One thing is clear here: In the field of real estate, real estate income is mainly achieved through sales and not through the development of real estate, and in the case of development, more than 50 percent of the income situation of the internal group sector is still decisive. However, when it comes to the question of the cost of the real estate segment, it is also vital to consider the cost of the management, but in the real estate sector, the cost development in the management is far above average compared to the rest of the group. I would also like to stress here that this type of contract design is still an old burden from the previous government. [[Abg. Wheeler: Ha! Ha!]] [[Abg. Hörl: Calculated at the ÖBB!]] The development of real estate is also influenced by its own location concept. This was decided at the end of 2004 and will be completed with the completion of the main station in Vienna. In this, a large concentration of the ÖBB locations is planned in the area of the main station in Vienna. In the meantime, measures are often necessary which do not make sense as an individual measure, but are already necessary when considering the total. Indeed, there are a lot of questions relating to the real estate of the ÖBB, with the basic handling, but also with the process of internal processes in their exploitation. However, this has also been examined by the Court of Auditors. The raw report is now before us and is currently being processed by those responsible. Mrs Moser, I think it is a sign of fairness to give the responsible parties the opportunity to reply, time to the complaint where this is possible. ==References== March this year, an extraordinary Supervisory Board meeting of ÖBB-Holding is known to take place, and in this case the questions you have raised will probably play a central role, through opinions and opinions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Moser]] Mrs Moser, I would like to stress once again: You're a little too early with your request. ==References== March, I think we have many answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12949	Now comes Mr Mag. Kukacka. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e12970	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Moser, I think that what you have said on this issue today is really very unfair and very unfair, because these are unproven statements. They are drawn up here, which are only partly based on the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You only need to read the Court of Auditors report!]] They are also irrelevant in many ways. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] They criticize things here that go back to the third level of management, so to speak. But in fact, it is not the responsibility of this House and the policy of including operational management. [[Abg. Oillinger: Is the third level so well paid?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] The Austrian Federal Railways, Mr. Collegue, have therefore also been distributed by us and made a stock company so that there are appropriate management bodies there: a board of directors, a Supervisory Board, which also has the responsibility to take over. It is not the task of this house to investigate to the third-party level whether any property business is correct. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] I would just like to say the following: It is our task and it was – and we have seen this too – to bring the ÖBB out of the party political dispute. They want to bring her back in with it. That is what we think is wrong and unjust. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] I would also like to say that you should read the Court of Auditors' report more precisely. [[Abg. Oils: No, please!]] Although there are a large number of criticism points cited, there is also a clear inside – including the media coverage – for example bombs that could cause the ÖBB to waver or their leadership, you do not find in them. There are a number of allegations, but now you have to listen! – a concrete economic disadvantage for the ÖBB has not been demonstrated in any of the projects. [[Abg. Oillinger: What do you have for a report? What's this report?]] . This is the point, Mrs Colleague, I should like to make that very clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: What is this report? We don't have that!]] It's a really bad, pitiful style you're showing here. Unwarranted debt allocations to adapt the company and management here, that's not all right. If you had really been concerned about this, you would have thought that the ÖBB property management has been a very massive criticism over the last few decades, because nothing has happened there, because there has been nothing meaningful beginning with the large real estate assets of the ÖBB. Only now, through this new society, will there be extensive developments in real estate areas and has this area for the first time for decades, I would like to say, relatively high profits. And you should appreciate that in this respect too. Thus, there has been extensive development and exploitation of real estate. It has also come to the location concentration. There have been extensive project developments, practically in all major railway stations in Austria; we think of the exploitation of Vienna-Mitte, we think of other large railway stations that are being carried out. It must also be noted that what was claimed by you to be insider financing is, so to speak, an untenable claim that this is not justified, that ÖBB property management is always handled according to very clear, objective and transparent procedures. There is a Supervisory Board there, both at Immobilien GmbH and at Bau AG and at the Holding, which has examined all these transactions and has also approved them accordingly, Mrs Colleague! This is something that is not simply done by the board of directors, but that is, of course, approved. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Wait for the final various test reports, then you can only be judged fairly. Meeting They are not pre-conceptions here, this is a bad style that we of the Greens are usually used only to investigation committees.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13099	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13120	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Usually one deals with the Bonmot that one was confused, but at a higher level. In this case it is not yet the Minister – but almost – but at least Kukacka was able to confuse me at a lower level. [[Abg. Rädler: This is easily possible with you!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Kukacka, so that we can get to the point again: If we now try to debate the ingredients of this question, which Mrs Moser wanted to debate quite in accordance with the rules of procedure here, to clear up and reunite meaningfully, then there are a few peculiarities left. Mr Federal Minister, first of all only on the process and your ability to refuse or in this case refuse answers: You are right to say, of course, that you could rely more strongly on it and say – especially according to the structural reform package – that: Leave us alone! We've had everything here, right? It is that of you, if you want to do so – you almost presented it that way – that has been a certain welcome. Should be. But the de facto refusal to reply to questions 5 to 17 with the argument that a Court of Auditors' raw report is in circulation is not sustainable. This would mean that we would come into completely different spheres of problem, because the more the Court of Auditors would examine as the institution of this House, the less this House is likely to be. That's, let's say, not thought through to the end. However, I recognize your efforts, Mr Minister, to have answered something. But what happened? – You yourself have taken up statements from Mr Moser, so to speak, by saying that the composition and interconnecting of monsters does not yet result in a new hypothesis. But you did not want to disprove the horrors, nor did Mr Kukacka succeed. It must be possible for a committed Member here in the House to present, ask and express their views, even if the Court of Auditors is examining. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] I myself agree that I have not at all gone into the same details as Mrs Colleague, but some things seem to me already striking – now, several in this House, but already some experiences, especially with the ÖBB, have always been, but even more since the so-called last reform, which has been a number of years ago, and certain fears have come true. This does not necessarily have to concern the so-called real estate deals as such. I join all those who say it's good to try something in this area, including the previous speaker Kukacka. Just try something out of a state where, as you have said yourself, you only measured the cubicity of anything, sometimes Pi counted on it, and then the whole thing went through four stations, as in the k. u.k. civil service monarchy, that was earlier the real estate management. Now it's a little better. But that does not mean anything, because we discover parallels to the actions of the popular Minister of Finance Grasser. Let us remember – by the way, Mrs. Moser pointed out – what all went wrong in – as she calls it – increasing federal shares in the respective housing cooperatives. Here a number of parallels are recognizable, and that just has to make us light-hearing. There's nothing to help with this dementia, Mr Kukacka. In reality, at least the suspicion or the justified reason for the fact that it is as similar as always is demonstrated in the previous findings: not a proper tendering procedure, but rather a private bidder procedure, where then the private ones really show up. A slim foot doesn't make it when the Director-General's wife mixes in on the front. You can and don't even want to talk about that; I don't even think that's what you're going to do. So that's what jumps into the eye. Just like the fact that you first sell something that the ÖBB still needs, which they then have to rent back under the most unfavorable conditions. These are all classic processes. And all of this seems to give at least a certain indication. I'll tell you one thing: There have also been Court of Auditors reports – and that was not the worst – which have worsened from the raw report to the final report. I remember a few houses further, to the Art History Museum. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] – Let’s break the “final” still on the tongue! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] [[Call: ‘Flucible’]] In fact, Director Seizel came from the rain to the grape, because he was not even able or willing to disprove it. I have the suspicion that we will experience something like this again at the next Court of Auditors meeting. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13197	Next, Mr Vilimsky. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13218	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen at the Ministerial Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. The discussion of this question response was now a memorable thing, because it has shown that this coalition, which is supposed to be so disputed in public perception, actually works quite well: Former Secretary of State Kukacka has gone to the Redemption and has almost swung towards SPÖ Transport Minister Faymann, according to the motto: That's what we're doing! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] There you've seen that this coalition works well where it's about conductive functions, where red and black party gangs are raised in positions with salaries so high from abstrus that you shouldn't hide them from the public. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] Now, of course, we also understand why two new holding directors were transferred to the ÖBB, two SPÖ-burdened holding directors, with the dream gap of € 0.5 million a year – he gets the double of the Federal Chancellor! What I'm saying now is, The Federal Chancellor does not even earn half of his performance. As a matter of principle, it would be good to subject all these salaries, which are located in the public sector, to a pyramid, where one has transparency and where, as a customer – in this case, railways – one understands that a manager receives the sum X, but which does not represent any imagination content. That is why the work of the lady, who is now in the vision of the discussions, is Mrs Mag. Steinacker, former Secretary of State for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Flemming, will be present at the third meeting of the ÖBB of more than €400 000 a year. That's abstrus, that's what you can do. You won't explain it to anyone! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Moser, one word to you: You can't be so unhappy. You have received a very short answer, but you are still better than I am, because I have received answers to two parliamentary questions which are smooth the untruth. I sent a request to Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer to explain his participation in a meeting, a secret meeting, in Istanbul and at the same time to Minister Bartenstein. [[Call the ÖVP:False address!]] Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer said: No, I was there alone and can rule out that other members of the Federal Government were there. [[Abg. Strache: The only member of the government, he said!]] Minister Bartenstein said he was there with Gusenbauer anyway. – This is not the untruth, it is a ‘debt’ of Parliament. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now take your nose. They have promised a new quality of parliamentarism, with minority rights, honesty, transparency, controllability. If you are just a little honest and listen inside, then you will notice that nothing is left of what you promised. – The fair wage is Graz, and the righteous wage is Lower Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖBB have now come to a self-service shop, that's right. There, spouses of the board are entrusted with opportunities of divestment where there are millions of profits. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Not at all!]] There are salaries on the floors of the lines, where the simple train know-how, who is not even allowed to smoke on a train today... – That's a very big community, because the train should also be oriented to the customer. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a cleanery!]] Sometimes you have the impression that you are not in a train in the modern West, but rather in the dusty East. And to pay salaries that make up € 0.5 million a year, and to be awarded to partygoers of red and black, that is not what we think is the right use of public funds, nor to where the ÖBB are being led toward bankruptcy, where the annual grants from the public sector... – Yes, that is anyway one of you, from the BZÖ troupe, this art party that you have invented and which could now be considered as de facto finished with 0.7 percent. [[Abg. Hornek: Who was minister before?- Oh, my God!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Let's be honest: Because where it really is about the inside, where you and you can provide your party gangers with great jobs, where spindle functions are created to serve others from your bell again, this coalition works best. [[towards SPÖ and ÖVP]] And toward social democracy: Listen a little bit to what you said in your opposition time! Take the time, maybe read in the protocols, how you complained about the ÖBB Post Chess at that time! Today, I tell you quite openly, honestly and without polemics, you are not really better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13353	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[15:38:52]] Short debate on the response to the question 2119/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13374	We shall now proceed to the implementation of the brief debate on the answer to question 2119/AB. Since the answer to this question has been distributed to all Members of Parliament, there is a lack of reading by the author. We are going into the debate. In turn, I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker/no speaker has more than 5 minutes of speaking time available to the first speaker for reasons of reasons of which 10 minutes are available. I call Mr Klubobmann. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13408	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have today chosen a short debate on this question because the answer to our question by Mrs Bures is in no way satisfactory. This answer is in no way satisfactory, as it is particularly true of the “wrong women” who have suffered very, very many hardships and who apparently have no value for this federal government – this is expressed in this reply – which up to date has been paid with the amount of luggage, saying: with one-time payments, rather on the basis of alms, have been processed and fed. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: such a fool!]] – No, that’s not stupidity, that’s reality! Once payments have been made, no sustainability! There is no sustainable discharge in this country for the performance of the “wrong women”! These “wrong women” have participated a lot, and the minister rightly writes: “Unfortunately, it is not possible to pay off the disaster, despair and distress caused by the Second World War, or to pay off by financial grants. to make it impossible at all.’ That's what I'm giving you. It is not a matter of reversing unhappiness, misery and suffering, nor of making up for money, but it is not just about the accident and suffering that these dirty women have had to experience, no, they have done something too! They have not only experienced unhappiness and suffering and distress, but have done something after the war as women. Since their husbands were in prison for war or died, they packed up as women, although they had to care for their children, and rebuilt our beautiful home, which was in ruins. And this performance is something for these women, and it is precisely our concern: that these women will also be paid in a sustainable manner according to their performance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is exactly the crucial point, and this is not exactly what this answer to the question. You have not once mentioned the word “wrong women ”; that was not even worth mentioning to you! And you also noted that you are not willing to have a study on this subject. You have always stressed in your reply that you are of course busy with the situation of all women. – That’s a good thing, but of course you also have to make differences, differences you didn’t even take in the pension increase, because you yourself say it’s all about all the women in the country. And then, in your answer to the question, you refer to the women and to the increase in the pension, and I say to you: The women concerned, who then found the note on this increase in pensions, feel right when they receive a letter from the Federal Chancellor, who congratulates them for this increase in pensions! In fact, one has to say that you are probably the first German government in this Second Republic, which has succeeded in making a pension increase in which the pensioners find less on the note than before after the increase. You really have to note this in the price increases that exist today, and where then 3, 8, 9, 10, 12 € may be found on this pension note, but in all areas price increases take place. And with this small increase of 1.6 percent, those 400,000 women who are married are punished by this federal government. Because they are married, they have just received a 1.6 percent increase. Similarly, it is with the “wrong women” that one has to say this critically. This is not just about the need and the suffering these women had to experience, but about a concrete performance, a sustainable increase in the pension for “wrong women”. That's why we're doing it, and we're not going to let go of it either. But your answer, Mrs. Minister, which we are discussing today also shows that you have not found it worth the effort to really answer the questions. This is exactly this picture that you offer the opposition: Questions will be asked, which will not be answered at all. If you are lucky, they will be answered – but false, evidencedly false, as previously explained by Mr Vilimsky on an example. But there could be some examples of the best! Minister Platter has recently been asked how many boats the water police have today. And he says, Seven boats. – And then we get on it, they don’t have a boat suitable for travel! We are constantly experiencing such things here in the House, and of course this is already a step in favour of our parliamentary rights! Either you are not willing to ensure and respect the parliamentary rights that the opposition has, or you really want to joke us and go over it coldly. I expect that if you ask questions, you will receive correct answers, and at least you will address the questions in terms of content and you will not lose sight of them, as was done in your reply. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In other words, it is not hesitated to deal very intensively with all kinds of marginal issues. Very intense! You have no fear at all of ordering and investing studies on all possible marginal issues, but a group of those concerned, namely, the “wrong women”, who are not a small group, has not even been worth a study that refers to and analyses the life situation of these women in order to take action accordingly. One simply cannot accept this, because these “wrong women” are also significantly responsible for much of our prosperity, which we can find today and experience as a younger generation. These “wrong women ” have done great things, and you cannot and must not simply go away. I really have to say that your response to the question is symptomatic, because in the end you are also deceiving a large group of women, although as a woman's minister you always attach special importance to the fact that you are so happy to be there for women. And I miss that in many areas, not just the “wrong women. ” I miss this also with the women who are mothers and often have problems. I understand that sometimes you can't get involved because there may not be so many female government members who are mothers. That is why I also understand that some people can hardly understand what women as mothers have to do with problems and concerns about how to get rounds from month to month. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would like to know this very openly today, because it is simply too little what you, the Minister for Women, are doing here for the best. This is about rights and a legal claim that we want to ensure, and we will not take note of this answer to the question.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13491	Mrs Bures has now spoken. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13512	Madam President. High house! I am very glad that we can now devote ourselves to this short debate of a group of women, namely a group of women who have undoubtedly done great things in Austria. You have already mentioned it: It is the “wrong women” who, after the end of World War II in Austria, made a very decisive contribution to the reconstruction and removed debris and rubble. I agree that the achievements of these women are of course appreciated by all of us, and above all by me as Minister of Women. And I am also in favour, and I believe that the sentence you quoted from my answer to the question is rightly at the heart of the matter, because the performance of these women cannot actually be paid for with money. But it is absolutely important to me today to point out the role of women especially in times of war and post-war times. We also have the year 1938, and therefore, I believe, it is also important to point out how many women have fought in resistance, how many women have left their lives in resistance, or how many women have afterwards made a significant contribution to the construction of our city, our home country. I would also like to mention just a few of these women, who were in opposition, as a symbol of the many women who also had to leave their lives: Rosa Jochmann, Käthe Leuchter, Gabriele Proft. I believe it is very important that we consider the overall dimension, the whole dimension of what war and misery have led to in our country, to what situation we have faced after the war, and that we have actually built the country with the help of the “wrong women”. Our thanks to these women for their achievements, and our thanks, of course, to the older generation as a whole. Mr Klubobmann Strache, you decided at the time, in 2005, so to speak, in the association of BZÖ and FPÖ, this one-time payment. It was €14 million that were made available. [[Abg. Strache: And you give the person concerned a warm handshake! More than a warm handshake would be nice!]] There were 47,500 women who received this one-time payment. But I don't make any of it. I also criticised at the time, namely that this one-time payment will only be made available to women who had children. I was of the opinion that all women who have contributed here should receive this one-off payment decided by you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But you're right: It's about not dividing young and old. It's not about whether these women have children or not. [[Abg. Here's your opinion!]] For me, all measures are at the heart of our efforts to improve the living conditions and living conditions of women – whether for the older generation of women or whether they are the opportunities for young girls in this country. That's what I'm doing. And I advocate that we create a system, not an alms state in which there are one-off payments, but a social state on which people can rely – and only the people of old age. It is therefore very important measures that the new Federal Government has put in place to prevent poverty of old age by massively increasing pensions, especially the compensatory allowances. And do you know what we've got in the Second Republic for the first time? – For the first time in the Second Republic, we have minimum pensions above the poverty line. This has led the new Federal Government into the way! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's not right, unfortunately!]] I think you know, because of my 14 months of office, that I am one of those women's politicians who say that a very central point so that women can live independently and self-determined is also the compatibility of work and private life. That is also what is of course for you, Mr Deputies, to: They make a career and have children. [[Abg. Strache: Barbara Rosenkranz! Barbara Rosenkranz is an example of this! Ten children and still a career!]] I would also like this self-evidentness for women. I also wish for the women that they have children and at the same time can pursue a career and make careers in the profession. What is natural to you should also apply to women in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Congratulations on Barbara Rosenkranz!]] I am therefore glad that the new Federal Government has said: We're taking money in our hands. We want to expand the childcare facilities. We're making the kid's money more flexible. And this morning, the High House discussed the papal month. This is also a matter of even more partnership, which I think is very important. If there is a need to focus on combating poverty, measures such as the minimum wage, overtime supplements in part-time work are exactly the right way this federal government has gone. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you once again, I believe that this is not a good topic to make small political money. To this end, we should have too much respect for the fates and life stories of these women. It is not possible to make the disaster, despair and distress caused by the Second World War unblemished by financial grants and to let the many dead come back to life. But it is most important to me, and therefore I am glad that there is this discussion here today, it is most important to me that we never forget what was done in the resistance to National Socialism, what was done during the reconstruction. Therefore, the build-up generation is of our all thanks and respect.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13647	Mrs Binder-Maier's next speech. 5 minutes speaking time; also for the following speakers. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13669	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. Strache, all day long, you emphasize the role of the mother. And in your current contribution, you have again negatively mentioned those women who do not have children. I say something to you, Mr Strache: I feel very concerned myself as a woman who does not have children, and I am also in the name of all those women who do not have children, for whatever reason – it is not the duty of the house to clarify this now – against this flat-rate condemnation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. I didn't do that, Mrs. Colleague!]] Mr Strache, I congratulate you personally on your four children, but a very political question, Mr Strache: Do you experience your children, your four children, even because of your personal situation? If you ask us personally, we just have to ask you this question. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: I didn't do what you said! This is a pure word twist and an untruth! A manipulative untruth!]] In today’s debate on the new male image, Mr Vilimsky said that women want “no soft eggs” and “no pelvis swimmers”. – Now the reverse would be: Mrs. Rosenkranz's husband is supposed to take care of the ten children very carefully. Does he fall into this man's image that Mr Vilimsky has described to us? – That is the question that arises. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Back to the topic of “Women Rubber” and compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, the intention of this law was to create a unique grant for women in recognition of their special achievements in the reconstruction of the Republic of Austria. And there's an addition in this law: From the point of view of these grants, persons who are not compatible with the thoughts and objectives of a free and democratic Austria should be excluded. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an addition that is also very essential, and I do not get around, to emphasize that the generation that has rebuilt this country – that is my mother generation, that is, the women in particular – has done essential things. But, ladies and gentlemen, we also have to say very clearly and clearly that there are not only innocent victims. [[Abg. Strache: There is a warm handshake from you!]] – Mr Strache: The louder the argument – it doesn't have to be more correct. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! 59,000 applications were submitted, 47,500 of which were done positively. A total of € 14.2 million was paid to women. The conditions for this reference – and this condition also contributed to FPÖ – were designed to keep the reference circle as small as possible. Because condition was: women born before 1930 who did not acquire their own pension entitlement and who had at least one child until 1950. Ladies and gentlemen, this circle is truly a small one, and it excludes many women. In reply to her question, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has reacted very seriously, and I think it is actually not possible to make personal unhappiness or personal despair or distress unheard of. The compensation was a small, modest recognition for women who lived at that time. However, it is essential that the conditions for women in Austria as a whole improve, that they become comprehensible, that they become better across-the-board, gender-crossing, sustainable, rapid and unbureaucratic, because it is about providing women with the basis of life so that they can experience their age with dignity.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13759	Now comes Mrs Mag. Aubauer for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13780	Madam President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Klubobmann Strache, I am right if you say that women have done great things after the war in reconstruction. Many of our senior seniors in the Senior League tell us again and again how they have cleared away the ruins, how they have made them blossom again under many hardships of this country. Especially in this 2008 memorial year, it is important for us to remember these achievements and to show appreciation, gratitude and appreciation for these achievements. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's right!]] Yes, let us help where help is most urgently needed! What do these women, most of whom are 70, 80, 90 years old, need most today? – Worthy care and care, ladies and gentlemen, and we want to ensure that. Most women – we know this from many surveys and personal conversations – prefer to live at home in their own four walls. This is their most longing desire, and we want to fulfill it to them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What do we need? – Legal care in the best quality! Therefore, it is essential to extend the powers of the caretakers – practically oriented, responsibly. [[Abg. Straight: Paid adjustment by 20 percent!]] What's planned? – Caregivers can help, under strict conditions – training, delegation, controls by the qualified professional service or doctors – for example, in the taking up of medications and nutrition, in the care of the body and in the dressing, as well as in the injection of insulin, without being included in existing occupations. This regulation should apply only to the domestic area, not to homes. This is a good solution that creates legal certainty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Paid adjustment by 20 percent would be very important!]] But this is very important, Mr Klubobmann, because these are the real concerns of this generation. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Care allowance for 20 percent since introduction! Wasn't adapted!]] This improvement in the Health and Care Act must be done quickly – best this week, ladies and gentlemen! – in the interests of the caretakers and in the interests of the caretakers. This helps the reconstruction women – fast, unbureaucratic and absolutely necessary! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also important to ensure the best possible health care for all in the future. Whoever gets sick must get the best treatment that is possible at any age. This is also important for these reconstruction women – not like in other countries, for example in England, where ladies and gentlemen today do not even have a chance to get an artificial hip. We don't want to. We want best health care for everyone at any age. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am convinced, with good health care, with good health care and with good manageable care, that's exactly how we help the women who have rebuilt our country so great after the war. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13906	Mr Oellinger has now come to the fore. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e13927	Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mrs Bundesminister: They have started an effort to praise the achievements of our pension system for this generation. Mrs. Federal Minister! But for relativization, I have to say: A problem that has shown this last increase in pensions was that what you claimed was unfortunately not achieved, namely a pre-accession of the minimum pension to the poverty threshold. They landed just below. - That's the one point. The second point, which is of course very relevant in connection with older women: The small pensions, which are below the compensatory allowance rate and lie below average, have been increased by 1.7 percent, and you can safely assume that many of the people of this generation who are still alive fall below. The problem or the situation of these older women – these are women who are already at least 80 years old on average – is that they certainly did not work in regular working conditions during these post-war years, but that they may have raised one, several, perhaps even many children, in addition to the work they did in the ruins of post-war Vienna or post-war Austria, and they do not have certain claims precisely because of the accounting rules for child rearing periods, which are all comprehensible and understandable. So there are already problems – and now I am at the very point – that only have something to do with the topic of “wrong women”. Let's talk about older women! – It applies to what I have described now. Let's talk about dirty women! Mrs. Federal Minister! I would also like to have a suggestion, or I would like to receive an indirect suggestion from the Freedom Party: You write: “Is it in question for you to commission a study on the current situation of the ‘wrong women’s (...)?” As I have now noticed in the debate that there are still misunderstandings about what and who might fall under the term “wrong women”, I mean that this is already a topic. I believe that historical research is a step further than the debate here in the House, because it is not enough that we want to name the “wives” on the one hand and take them into protection and on the other hand the persecuted members of the Nazi regime – whatever I am – are held up, because that describes the problem situation and the situation of the “wrong women” inadequately. Among the “wrong women” there have been those who have been stopped by the political authorities of the time – and we all know that this has also confirmed historical research – to clean up ruins because they have been blamed as perpetrators. – Also, there were among the “wrong women”! I wonder, of course, if you have to say – you can do that, but if you have to – first and foremost, these perpetrators are interested in us. [[No call at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] – Mr Scheibner, the point is: If you say no, then I would also have liked to see a more serious concern for the victims or those persecuted by the Nazi regime from your family over a longer period of time. That would have helped me a lot. [[Abg. Scheibner: We've made enough!]] – We have not done enough, Mr Scheibner! [[Abg. Scheibner: Sure!]] We hope that we will agree that we have still not made enough for the victims and those persecuted by the Nazi regime in this country. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now we do something for the others too!]] If we have agreed that we still need to present ourselves, then we could also talk about disseminating the various political situations and problems of the “wives” in order to come to a more true appreciation of their achievements. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] However, to mix one with another, I really think it's a big problem.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14025	Now, Mr. Dr. Count's word. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14046	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! So that I do not forget it in the few times available to me, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Why? – Mrs Federal Minister, you have tried to bring us closer to the social policy of the last 15 months. Her colleague in the political group feels personally shaken. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: No, no!]] – I don’t think you were personally poured. They have said so and thus again consciously misunderstood something. Mr Strache has said that he already understands that if you don't have children, you often can't get into the situation of people with children. – If that’s already “gathering”, then you can’t say anything at all. But you've been talking about it. This request is quite simple. These are very simple questions, and they just haven't been answered. - That's what it's all about. If you are asked: “As the Federal Minister for Women, are you of the opinion that this women’s group – namely the “wrong women” – is “worthy of the special attention of the Federal Government?” then you could easily answer it. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, answer this in the written question that you say all the older people are your concern. – Of course, it is. But they were specifically asked. Today, you've made it a little more precise. You also said it was your concern. I take note of this positively. Then you will be asked, “If so,” and now I suppose that you meant so, “what concrete measures do you have or will you propose to permanently appreciate the achievements of these women?” and you did not answer that. You didn't suggest how you'd appreciate it. I would have expected not only to be listed – like your Mrs Colleague – what the previous Federal Government has done, what you yourself – and that is it! – have always been too little criticised, but I would have expected you, with this question reply or with today’s debate, to put yourself on the subject and say that you plan to consider even those who did not have children with a single payment. That would have been a concrete announcement. We would have liked to hear such a thing – that you submit proposals here! You didn't do that. They just wrote that they were all well served anyway and got 2.9 percent. Mr Oellinger is right! We all know this here in the High House: A large number of people have only received 1.7 percent. I do not want to spread on this at all, but in fact you yourself know today that the increase in the pension which this Federal Government has decided on was insufficient. There is no question of what specific measures you will take, not mentioning and pointing out that you have already done something, knowing for yourself that all of this is insufficient and that you need a cost compensation, a "gut builder dog". – For example, you could have written this down as a concrete measure. But you did not answer that question at all, and that is what it is all about. And then nebula grenades are thrown. Then suddenly everything is important. We have a year of commemoration and thought, it is thought in 1918, 1938, 1948, all possible data, but when it comes to two specific interested parties, the word is not even taken into the mouth, and these concrete stakeholders are the displaced ones – I say, because then there is always mixed, and there is nothing to be said – and the “wrong women”. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] These concrete groups of interested parties then often only have a general concern, and then they are counted. Mr Oellinger, the first part of your speech was excellent, but the second part was – as always – quite simply thematic error – five, sit, thank you! They have already tried to calculate again. [[Abg. Oils: After that's not possible! “Superb” and “not enough” results in three!]] I don't want to record anymore! The biological clock is running: If we want to do something good to this generation and those concerned, we must act quickly now. [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] If you have a proposal, we are willing to carry it with you, but if you do not want to answer very simple and simple questions in such requests and disappear over any concept that is not really your concern, then the method has. That's what we wanted to show today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14163	The request for non-knowing of the question answered by Mr Graf has just been put to the debate. Mrs Haubner's next speech. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14187	Madam President. Dear Mrs Frauenminister! High house! I would like to say: It took 60 years for a BZÖ family minister to think of a group of women who have been constantly expressing recognition and thanks verbally, but who never cared whether at least as a signal could be given a financial contribution. That was, I think, a right decision of this last government. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Mrs Binder-Maier, if you say that it is only 47 000 women anyway, then I have to ask why you did not take up this suggestion among German Socialist Chancellors in the 60 years before. – Then it would have been perhaps 100,000 women who would have received this allowance. That would have been a strong signal. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It was criticized that it was mainly about women who had children. Of course, women without children also worked a lot after 1945, but those with children had double and triple responsibility. They have not only had to care for their own lives and survival, but have also had the responsibility for their children. To return to the topic of today's current hour: They not only had to be a mother, they also had to replace the father, and that is a special achievement in difficult times. Therefore, these 300 € can only be a signal. I've had the luck of talking personally to many women of this generation. If one has this access and hears what hardships and what hard work they have done, and if one feels how grateful they are for the fact that public Austria is thinking of them for the first time, one knows that this has been one of the most positive achievements of the last years of government. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am still recalling the criticism of the Social Democratic Group, which has stated that it is a “fiscal Mother Cross” or a “Alms policy”. – Critizing is easy, but 60 years nothing to do, that is really a strong piece! Mrs. Federal Minister, it's nice and good if you want to keep this generation up, but it's true: What do you want? Are you really doing it? Why Increase You not the small pensions under the compensation allowance by more than 1.7 percent? Why don't you increase the care money, because just these women are also caring for and caring for at home? And why – here I give you another suggestion – do you not at last introduce mothers' money at national level, as we have already put it in a request in Parliament? – That would be particularly good for this group of women, and they would be better cared for than now. Head of State Haider shows in Carinthia how it is: not only with the compensation of the price – and that is not a policy of alms! – but also with the mother money. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I believe that women of this generation on the one hand need our great appreciation, on the other, but also a basic guarantee in old age, because that is a very strong generation of women. On the basis of what they have worked and created, all of us today are building up prosperity. Thanks always have to be said for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14262	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Graf, ladies and gentlemen, not to take note of the reply to the question. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of not knowing a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[16:18:36]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14299	We now come to the brief debate on the request of Mr Ing. Westenthaler, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Application 605/A(E) for a period of until 8. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler, you're the first to speak. As an applicant, you have 10 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14335	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! There has been an interesting request to the Financial Committee since the last plenary session, namely the request made by Mr Haberzettl, Mr Krainer, Mr Mag. Cups, ladies and gentlemen on tax reform 2009 and emergency measures to combat price increases, as well as a compensation of €100 for low-income households and persons. I should also like to read the first sentence of the resolution so that the listeners can take a picture: ‘The National Council wants to decide: ,The Minister of Finance is invited to implement the tax reform agreed in the government programme with a discharge volume of around 3 billion. Euro per 1. To implement January 2009, in particular with a view to reducing small (...) and medium income (...).” An emergency aid for less-income persons of 100 € is also required. This is a request from the Socialist Group, which – and this is the crucial question – can only be implemented then, and that is the dictatorship of the calendar, if it is dealt with quickly in Parliament. If we reduce taxes – you call it “tax reform” – by 1. Putting into force January 2009, that is, as you want it to be implemented in the request, then we must now proceed very quickly to parliamentary processing. That is why we are giving you today the opportunity – you should be grateful that we are doing so – to accept our deadline request, which will allow this request a period of time until the 8. April's sitting. So until the next plenary session, there would be the opportunity to decide by a majority on this request here in the House. Then it will be implemented, then the content of your application will actually become reality. That is, we are very pleased today that Social Democracy will vote in favour of this deadline proposal and invite you to do so, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is also necessary in terms of content. It's also a very interesting day, why we're discussing this today. Today, there has been the presentation of three studies, all in the media. The first study was presented by SPÖ Social Minister Buchinger, the so-called EU-SILC study in which poverty has been analysed in Europe and after which already – and that says the Minister of Social Affairs – one million Austrians are at risk of poverty. By the way, this is an increase from 2006 away, also interesting. That means there are more poor people in the country than there were under the previous government. That should also be said. This has been announced today by the Minister of Social Affairs, Buchinger. And he sees himself confirmed by this study and also sees his demand for a preference of tax reform and a rapid introduction of minimum security. This is what the Minister of Social Affairs is telling us today, given the fact that many people – over a million! – at risk of poverty. That's where he tells us today: Please, quickly prefer tax reform! Today you have the opportunity to set deadlines, today we will also see how seriously social democracy is taking, because it is not only the approximately one million vulnerable people. There are also about 400 000 people who are already directly in poverty. There are 7 percent of all employees, about 230,000 people – people in employment! – which are also vulnerable to poverty. Or: 150,000 children living in acute poverty. Or: There are 250 000 households that can no longer afford heating. There is, of course, a rapid implementation, a rapid relief, whether through tax reduction or one-off payment, the commandment of the hour that you also give these people money in your hands so that they can afford something again. We want to achieve this with our proposal today, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I also find it a bit strange: I heard an interlocutory call from Mr Strache about the 100 €. That's alms. I don't think 100 € are alms. These are not alms, because there are hundreds of thousands of people in this country who have to come out with 100 € very long, so that they can afford their lives at all. It's not alms! This is very, very much money for many people. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we support it. We'd say, 200 €, but okay. If we were once to spend a hundred years in Carinthia's Carinthia, then we're with you. But today you must also have the mumm to jump over your black shadow and agree to this deadline, otherwise it will not go out before the summer and people will continue to be in poverty. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, there has been a second study today. Mr Krainer – I do not know if he is here now – has responded to this, including Mr Kalina. This is an OECD study, according to which the tax burden in Austria is actually too high. Mr. Krainer made a broadcast today: ‘OECD study of clear mandate to relieve quickly’. Krainer also says: “To others, this confirms our demand that the discharge be granted at the earliest possible time, i.e. with 1. 1. 2009, to take place.” The Social Democratic Federal Managing Director also says this: We must implement this tax reduction as soon as possible. – “As soon as possible”, says Kalina, too Your financial expert Krainer. Voices It's her today! As soon as possible today is at the end of the debate if we can set a deadline for your request and deal with it in the next plenary session. The third study that has been published today – everything today – is: The Chamber of Labour has published a study in which it has analysed price increases for the entire last year. There are also some workers' chamber representatives. They have presented this and have come to the conclusion that in 2007 – and this is an interesting result – the most expensive products in a supermarket have become in the most expensive and have experienced a price increase of 18 percent. By 18 percent, the best products, i.e. those people who have nothing at all, have increased most! But this in 2007 at an inflation rate of 2.2 percent. They know what we had in January for inflation: 3.3 percent. If you calculate this, we are now not at 18 percent price increase in low-cost products, but at 24 or 25 percent, by a quarter more expensive. That's where the Chamber of Labour says: “This is a remarkable result, especially in terms of distribution policy, because people with low household income pay particular attention to cheaper products.” That's it. Those who have to buy the best will be twice and tripled. Therefore: Give your heart a boost today and vote for the deadline that this one-time payment, this price compensation, which we have been making for many years. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, at last for the people who also need it, to be real, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You alone have it in your hand. You alone have it in your hand today, I remember the 24th. ==References== There was a “press hour” of your party president Gusenbauer, who said in this “press hour” either: tax reform on 1st. January 2009 or the government is over. – That was the sukkus of his statements. Everyone clearly understood what was happening. And now I have a little the impression, even yesterday after this “Hebamensorgung” in the Hofburg by the red and black Federal President, that the SPÖ is already going down again. You're half in the trap again, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. You're falling over again! This muti­cal requirement to prefer tax reform, to make a tax reduction by 1. January 2009, will not come because you have already given up this request and because this request, which you have made half-heartedly here, will not come to the treatment until 1. January 2009. That is what I am prophesying if you today do not agree to the deadline and at last decide on a reasonable decision for the people of the country. It's clear what's going to happen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] He wasn't the only one. ==References== There was a concerted action on February, strategic. They've all recognized that. There's been a whole slat of broadcasts. All the Landesobmen, the Federal Business Office, up to the National Council President, who demanded immediate discharge – all of you are expressive and have requested immediate discharge. I have a pretty slow impression that you don't really take this seriously. That's the fabric from which the frustration is made. That is also the substance, why you are accused of not complying with your promises. I say it would be important to decide today. It would be a clear signal that the government is working and does not argue that it will be relieved and not burdened that action is being taken and not always just announced and that it will be observed and not always promised. This would be the opportunity today to log social warmth, to show social warmth, to make this new start today. Not a restart for the government – this will not work, I have said it today – but a restart for the people. The social politicians in their ranks should today agree to this deadline so that they can also argue. If you do not do so, ladies and gentlemen of the Chamber of Labour, of the union, of its many social politicians, which I respect all, but if you miss this opportunity today, there will be no longer a chance of reducing taxes and also a cost compensation from the schedule alone. Then the highly prized reboot, which this government already wants to announce, will become the new misstart for SPÖ chairman and Chancellor Gusenbauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14478	The speaking time of the following speakers is 5 minutes each. Mr Krainer is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14500	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – Yes, Mr Westenthaler, I know my broadcasts. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Krainer has today issued an issue: as soon as possible tax reduction!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Here you go!]] You have also put the request here in the cornerstones I have made, among other things. And of course we stand on this request – for several reasons. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then we treat him!]] The questions behind it are several and therefore there are several possible solutions. In essence, what we are experiencing in Austria is the following: that inflation has increased massively in the second half and towards the end of the previous year and almost doubled within three months. This was precisely at the time when the wages and pension increases were made. That is to say, the framework conditions under which pensions were increased – by at least 1.7 percent to 2.9% for minimum pensioners – or the payroll accounts, which were 3.1 to 4.5 percent for railways, were different as regards inflation than what was the case then in December or January. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Because you have bad advisers, Mr. Colleague!]] It's all right for you to have the best consultants, colleague Dolinschek. Then you can act as a fortune teller and explain to us what inflation will be like in a year. But apparently you're not so good, because then you'd probably be there and the whole world would listen to you. The situation we now have is that with a growth of significantly more than 3%, which one has to see as an absolute high economy in the last ten years, large parts of the population now have a real purchasing power loss. That's what we all see. And that's also a point where a Social Democratic Party can never put its hands in the pockets and say, I don't care, I don't do anything about it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then we decide...!]] – The SPÖ will always, in any situation, in which large parts of the population suffer a loss of purchasing power – and this is still in a high economy – of course consider measures and suggest how to combat this situation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Bravo!]] That's what we did. Now we all know that there is a coalition government. It is, of course, necessary that a partnership be lived within the framework of a coalition. And I also say quite openly: If a partner – and no matter what party is in a coalition government at the time of the SPÖ – believes that it is reasonable for the SPÖ to do nothing in such a situation, namely the high economy and the declining purchasing power, for many parts of the population, and that it simply does not look at it, it is wrong! It also overshadows the partnership of SPÖ, because we are not. That would be exactly as if the SPÖ were in a drought period to remove the idea of agricultural support. This would, of course, be an absolute exaggeration of the ÖVP. And you don't do that in a partnership. We don't do that either. That is why everyone should consider each other at any time and should also be aware that the SPÖ will not be watching in such a situation, but will insist that there are appropriate measures against this situation, that large parts of the population have really less money – and that at times of a high economy and at times of sprinkling tax revenue! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then you agree today!]] That will never be the case. [[Complementary by representatives of the SPÖ and the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why didn't your own Members complain?]] It is relatively simple to lay down the time limit for the application in question: I have clearly said what partnership is and what is not. The ÖVP is not yet that far. Part of the ÖVP is already so far, but the ÖVP as a whole does not yet follow this proposal here and talk to us specifically about how we are dealing with it. The ÖVP still needs time for that. We'll give them to her as long as there's still time. I see this time pressure... [[Abg. Scheibner: I believed it was so urgent!]] Excuse me, the 1. January 2009 is not in a week. We're ready to negotiate at any time. It is enough time to deal with this question in an appropriate period of time. We want to give the EIA time in this regard. But it must also be clear to the EIA that it is necessary for us to take action on this issue. [[Abg. Scheibner: When is it? When's the last time?]] Please, excuse me! How long have you been in Parliament? [[Abg. Scheibner: Longer than you!]] How long have you been in Parliament? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Much longer than you!]] - Well, right now! Then I'll be You probably know that you have to decide that at the latest in the autumn, and then you can calculate when it has to be done. And that's relatively simple. In this sense, we will not agree to the deadline proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14702	Mr Neugebauer is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14724	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, apart from different calls on tax reform: In the fight against inflation, I would like us to put one out of the question, namely that any reform that deserves the name and therefore costs a lot of money must be earned – and not financed at the expense of others. [[Bravorufe and congratulation with the ÖVP.]] I would like us to have such a comprehensive tax reform – there are many calls to be taken seriously, probably after 9. March in Lower Austria has gained a bit of seriousness, because many, given the results of the election, should have a little more materiality and humility – to relieve the middle class. However, there is still no agreement as to how we define it. So for me as employee representatives, the middle class are all those – I would say – who pay wage tax and income tax. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like us to offer tax incentives in the families for every carefree family member. I would like to see the employee participation of the workers in the enterprises also increased tax incentives more than before. These structural reforms will cost a lot of money, but are only possible if we can also set the volume of discharge – you can wish for a lot. The volume of discharge will be determined if the data situation can be forecast better than it is now. This is usually in the autumn of a year. And I think that appropriate solutions are well removed from our Minister of Finance at the right time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the fight against inflation: We can only, of course, use the place where inflation arises, namely in terms of prices. And that not everything is homemade is clear, namely to a large extent, as regards crude oil and everything that depends on it, what comes from abroad. There's some way we're tied up. But there are many good calls also appropriate programs. I have just read a text message that the colleague Federal Minister Berger and Federal Minister Bartenstein have agreed to dampen the rise in fixed value rents. Instead of the planned increase by 3.6 percent, it is reduced to 2.2 percent. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is an essential point in the 15-point programme to combat inflation of the Minister of Finance. There is still much to be done, although the deadline proposal has, of course, a certain tactical background. I think it is worth a detailed discussion with broad agreement when much money is taken into consideration, even in a tax reform that deserves the name. Mr Westenthaler, the deadline has nothing to do with this. That sounds like an Easter fast hare hunt: chicken, chicken! They know what follows “husch, ” that is, “puche. ” - That's not our style.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14790	Now comes Mr Mag. Rossmann speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14811	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! “Husch Push” – well, the Federal Government now had at least one year to consider how such a tax reform might look. The problems have not really changed dramatically. Only one thing has changed: Prices have risen. But if we look at the purchasing power losses, for example, when we look at the OECD report, which has been presented again today, it should be noted that essentially no change compared to what happened in the previous year. The lower and low incomes are more taxed than the higher incomes. And this is where inflation rates have increased. Now that I have listened to my two previous speakers, I find that, in view of this situation, they are doing only one thing, namely fighting, fighting. Prices continue to rise. There's nothing left to fight inflation. It is clear that we cannot do much here domestically, because oil prices have increased considerably and because oil prices are what drives many people into a fall in oil prices, and here nothing can be done with short-term resources. But something needs to be done in the medium and long term to get people out of this oil price trap. And here the Federal Government fails. It obviously has to be awakened from the thorny sleep here. In the short term, however, it does not actually take any action. She's not going to do anything. A compensation of 100 € will be discussed. Molterer says it should be 50 €. – Yes, these 100 € or 50 € are a declaration of bankruptcy of policy – a declaration of bankruptcy of policy when Stock Options are taxed while at the same time abolishing the inheritance tax from which the assets of that country benefit, while at the same time the foundations enjoy massive tax privileges and, at the same time, share-value increases after a retention period of one year can be free of tax. This is the real scandal in this country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, want to feed off the low incomes who suffer from high energy and food prices with a hundred. That's really ridiculous! What is needed here is a sustainable reduction of low incomes – and this sustainable reduction of low incomes can be managed relatively quickly, including by 8. April, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, but also of the ÖVP. How can you do that? For example, by triple the negative tax. No legal problem at all to do that. That's what we're going to bring up to 8. April easy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Yes, Mr Krainer, you know that very well, you can easily do that. This is a measure regardless of a tax reform, which is to be a tax-structural reform and not just a tax relief of wage and income tax. You can do that relatively quickly. However, it is also about the discharge of social security contributions. With regard to tax reform – let’s look at what the government is doing! In the case of tax reform, and this is not only a discharge on the payroll tax side, because the tax also covers the charges, for example the social security contributions, there is nothing but dispute, dispute, dispute. The government has obviously not thought anything about this in the last 14 months, although the need for action is enormously high. This shows, for example, not only the OECD report today, but also the fact that Austria is in the final position in international comparison with its assets. This also shows that we urgently need a relief from the work factor. In particular, the increase in capital taxes on the one hand and the increase in energy taxes on the other would offer a potential to relieve substantially the factor labour. The Greens have for many years presented a programme for eco-social tax reform, but the government has obviously never read it. If the OECD says that the main reason for the high burden of low income is cold progression, then it can only be said that this cold progression is a quick fight. There is also no need for major preparatory work. That's easy. I have proposed this last summer, but Mr Matznetter has firmly rejected it in committee. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] The tax levels can be included in the increase in wages. This would be a measure that would also permanently relieve the lower income earners. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14881	Mr Kickl is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14902	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The danger that there could be something too fast and one might be overshuddled with a tax reform that might see you from the SPÖ, otherwise I think no one really sees it in this republic. I am very grateful to Mr Krainer for his interesting remarks on inflation, which is not all the responsibility and how inflation has developed. I'm not going to get rid of the suspicion that inflation really started to develop at the moment, even from your point of view, when your shares fell into the basement. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I would give you the reverse tip and tell you that your shares will rise from the moment you do something to finally get the inflation under control. But it won't work so much that you can just push it to the long bank as you have done. The keyword ‘OECD study’ has already been used. This, ladies and gentlemen, is actually the OECD with which you would otherwise like to brag, but in this case it will give you a proper mirror from the government parties. The Austrians are paying more and more taxes. Now you're wondering: Who pays more and more taxes? Who? – Those who can afford foundations, the rich, who? No, they are not meant, but they are meant to be the vast majority of the population. Those are meant. More and more wage tax, more and more social contributions – and yet that is becoming more and more, it does not go back and front together! The great crowd, these are exactly those people who are also held by SPÖ – and I say this mainly at their address – as a collective group of underprivileged people. If you do not get together now and give yourself a kick and what you announce, even sometime, let those underprivileged ones continue to settle with you beyond Lower Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted about the debate on tax reform, although I believe that the motives under which it is conducted are not entirely honest. Anyway, I tell you what we mean by tax reform: We understand a tax relief and, in no case, any form of counter-financing by any back door that some may already think about. I say that again to the SPÖ address: If you had followed our liberal proposal a year ago, you wouldn't have the whole theatre now that you need to discuss sometime in the future. We could have all of this, and you would have been able to help the people you are pretending to want to help for a long time. Stupid and stupid is only the one who makes the same mistake twice. Have the first time You made him at the pension. You should have followed our proposals, then we could have beat out more for the pensioners, but you would have preferred to put yourself in bed with the ÖVP. What you've got now, we'll see that day by day. That means: Learn this time, give yourself a boost and make you quick! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Blow: Those who help quickly help twice!]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is most disturbing to me in this debate is the strange argument of the ÖVP: A tax reform must be made first. – It’s not like we’re talking about something we can’t afford. The truth is quite another. Apart from putting the money out at all other corners and ends of the window, you are among the biggest profiters of an economic development where the Austrians are the greatest losers. It cannot be so – perhaps in your logic, in our not – that the Minister of Finance is the one who cashes over a record charge of taxes and taxes and hears the money somewhere, instead of giving it back those who really need it. You need to explain to someone what makes sense. They really want to sell people for stupid, and that's why they're coming. So, with the reproach, you don't want to make new debts. In 2007 alone, you will have tax revenue of €4 billion. 4 billion € in unexpected revenue! That means, in fact, you have the bags full of money, and I ask you: What are you waiting for to spend this money? Perhaps at the time needed for you tactically shortly before a choice, but you will not be moving what people expect from you. Something else on the issue of “balancing the weather. ” I am very happy to hear this, and you may also be able to believe it, but let's look at it where you have the opportunity to do it: In Vienna, the SPÖ governs with absolute majority – and here there is a law of fees on the people who have washed themselves! [[Abg. Strache: In Graz the same way!]] Everything gets more expensive, started at the tram, totally no matter what, parking fees, and, and, and. You can see where you want. Just take these strains back! That would be relatively simple, you don't even need another one. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Graz is the black example of this. Stop talking about it, but put it into practice! The word has three letters: “t”, “u”, “n”.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14975	Mr Bucher is now speaking. Five minutes, too. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e14996	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make a brief comment on our deadline, because we have already debated many debates about favouring tax reform. We already see this as a very important measure, especially in view of the fact that the two coalition partners do not really agree on whether they have developed this scope or not. We hear from Secretary of State Matznetter, we have worked out the scope, we have fought him, we have achieved him with this 0.7 percent deficit – colleague stupidly smiles already – and the vice chancellor says we have not worked him out. This shows how far the views differed. In fact, it is true that this federal government – in which we hopefully agree, we have often pointed out – has increased a total of 13 times in the last one and a half years. Of course, these increases in taxes and contributions do not affect the service providers, but those who did not come out with their money a year and a half ago. Now, at least in the SPÖ, people have lost their income. This is basically nothing new, Mr Krainer, so we were also the first to say that effective action to combat inflation can only be taken if we are massively reducing taxes. I am not talking about a major tax reform now because I know that (a) the willingness to do so is not there, (b) probably the agreement between ÖVP and SPÖ is missing, agreeing on a large structural tax reform, which is a reform at the head and limbs, and not only does the tariff screw always make a turning, as was the case in the past. But what I can't understand is that, in view of the enormous pressures, one does not agree to adopt at least an inflation control package in order to help those who have been withdrawn in recent months with these 13 increases that you have decided here. The example of Vienna has been cited today, where more than €100 million is used for water and canal charges alone. They don't spend this 100 million € in Vienna at all. Have you ever thought about it before? The water and canal charge alone is a cash cow for Vienna. We should consider whether all these pressures and measures should not even be coordinated. They have moved this problem to the countries. You have to look at the 2007 budget! It says that in 2007 social expenditure was spent by 1 percent less. By 1 percent less! For the administration you spent €1.8 billion more. In other words, instead of taking back the expenditure from the administration, you have for the administration spent more than 1.8 billion. If you continue this path, you will never face this margin, earn to carry out a structural tax reform with a volume of 3 billion. That's never gonna work out. They move the whole social policy into the countries. That's your plan. They're moving this to the countries. The countries know what they have to do, because they stop the social-political holes you tear up at the federal level. Example Carinthia: We have taken a number of social policy measures in Carinthia, starting with baby money, school start-up, free school-school courses, up to the price compensation, which is paid twice a year, up to €300 a year, to mothers' money, et cetera. So all the social policy measures that actually fall within the scope of the federal government and which are best handled by the countries, in the case of Carinthia. These are not the measures we expect from the Federal Government, but we expect a responsible policy in the interest of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15058	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now vote on the request, the Financial Committee for reporting on application 605/A(E) for tax reform 2009 and emergency measures to combat price increase, and a compensation of € 100 for low-income households and persons, up to a time limit of 8. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] – That's the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[16:53:48]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15106	I will resume the negotiations on points 4 and 5 of the agenda. Mr Schalle. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group - I'll set the time to 5 minutes if you're right. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15133	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I must continue: In these assumptions, I am very concerned that this fund will be used relatively quickly. It is quite clear to us that these additional costs will be borne by the fund's capital and will lead to an increase in the contributions from companies. In the last place, the consumer needs to find out more or less about higher costs for the final consumer, the satellite manufacturers or cable operators. Not to mention the fact that the planned extension is linked to increasing administrative costs, which are currently not specifically estimated. It will be too much to calculate afterwards, and as I know the system, no recovery will be possible either because the procedure will take so long. Another criticism is that there is no clarity as to how the distribution of the grant benefit should also take place for health and accident insurance. Ladies and gentlemen! For these reasons, we cannot accept this government proposal. Such grants shall not be granted in any other area. I do not see why artists are constantly demanding special schemes and should also receive them, while other self-employed people do not receive any such promotions. The legitimate question arises why, if artists do not reach the minimum income, they do not prefer to take another profession. Instead of hobbying their trade, they seem to prefer to live by hand in their mouths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15170	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied is speaking. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15191	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! With this novel, five decisive improvements are achieved for artists: The grants also apply to health and accident insurance – a clear extension. Minimum incomes also take into account scholarships and prices – a decisive improvement. In the case of underage activity, incomes are absolved in the calculation of the lower limit. The upper limit is valorized. The ceiling will also be increased in case of an obligation to care for children. The last point, and it's probably the most important thing to me: The recovery claims now also take into account the social components and social aspects. With this – and with that I have achieved my political goal, Mr Zinggl – the hardships in the field of social security in the past clearly belong to the past. One thing – we have also discussed it very intensively in committee – has to be clear to all of us: that the aim of basic insurance cannot be achieved within the framework of the social security scheme and within the framework of the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds. This is about promoting low-income artists – the emphasis is on “income” – and we have been very intense about this topic. Mr Kurzmann mentioned that € 30 million was paid to the artists' group as a special support. Mr President, I would like to congratulate you on this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. This has resulted in a decisive promotion of the group of artists in this area. With the five points I have mentioned, we can achieve decisive improvements here, and also our common goal of avoiding hardships. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The development of these novels was demanding, even because of the very complex legal matter. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to thank all the experts involved, first of all Professor Mazal, but also Mag. Stoss and Dr. Schittengruber. These expertises were extremely important. I am convinced that this novelle is a decisive step towards the benefit and benefit of artists. I would also like to thank the government partner for coming to this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15264	The next item is Mrs Ablinger's speech. 3 minutes desired speaking time. However, we do not currently have an electronic time measurement. The lamp works, only the electronic time recording does not work. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15296	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Before I go into the content of the artist's social insurance: Mr Kurzmann, you spoke in your statement of state artists – this term was mentioned – and said that artists must comply with the laws; this as a small threat, I believe. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] Yes, that's true, but this applies not only to artists but to all people. I think you are Members of Graz: Could you tell your colleague Winter in Graz that it also applies to her? – Because it is currently being determined, yes, determined in connection with rejuvenation and degradation of religious teachings. [[Abg. Dr. Kurzmann: preliminary surveys!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: These are preliminary surveys!]] Preliminary investigations. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Please stay right, Mrs. Colleague!]] The only thing that must be clear to us in 1938 is that stigmatization, hatred, degradation and scandalization always lead to a barbarization of social communication, a brutalization of social communication. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Otherwise I will make an introduction to legal science! First semester! Let me make an introduction!]] That's what should happen this year, and in particular a day before the 12. March, to this one problem be clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The problems and the demands have already been presented many times on the subject of social insurance for artists. The central problem is recovery, which has been repeatedly criticized. Of these, 1,000 artists have been affected, and this was the original reason because this regulation in itself succeeded, the fund scheme, so that it was put into a bad light. I have already come to the conclusion because a number of things have already been said, and I would just like to say the following to Mr Zinggl: You criticized that. However, if one finds that the central problem of recovery is solved, so that there will no longer be, then the rejection of this rule would be, just because not everything has been solved, like if the child were to be poured out with the bath. Politics is always the art of the possible, and that means not losing sight of the essential. That is why we can agree to this scheme because it solves a problem, but not all. Your proposal for basic protection has also been criticised by the Council of Culture, because it says that there are still significant shortcomings in it. But we can agree to this form of regulation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15393	The next speaker is Mr Kickl. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15416	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a subject – I admit – in which one can, in the truest sense of the word, take on a certain path, with probably much to gain from the sentence that the truth is in the middle in a certain way. I'd like to try it this way: On the one hand, we have to deal with an art concept or, in fact, with an artist concept, in which one has to assume that some understand it in such a way that “artists” seem to be just too similar to something like chronic failure to succeed, with chronic indebtedness. I think that if you see it this way, it is very wrong to do very, very much, many of those who work in the artistic field. But there are obviously those who think that artists cannot be trusted, that they can live somewhere from what they achieve, and that there is, so to speak, almost a diametric contrast between economic skills and artistic talent. - That's the one side. This is not our liberal position, we see it differently. But there is also a second position, and I think it is just as wrong. This is a position which focuses on quite, very few, and these very few are the very successful ones. This is not the great mass, but these are those who can live not only from what they do, but from it very, very well. This position must not be taken as the measure of things, they cannot be assumed. That is why I believe that in this area the truth is in the middle, and that is why I believe that the law we are going to adopt today is a step in the right direction, although I believe that it is not going far enough. Ladies and gentlemen, both the positions I have described make a very crucial mistake from our free point of view. Both basically support a system that creates dependence. That's the point: Both systems are dependent. Here it is the dependence of a few individuals, of a few patrons, of a few measles, of a few companies or of whomever, who pursues interests – whatever interests – and there it is a fatal dependence on the state. The concept of the state artist has already fallen, and with this we can start very, very little. This is also the reason – and also the previous remarks, especially those of the Green Group – why I have no real joy with this Green request, which goes in the right direction from the intention. This concerns the Lunacek factor: what she said earlier here. This claim to a Green Ministry of Truth, which defines for itself what is right and what is wrong, what you should think and what you should not think – we have heard all of this from the example of the ÖTB, so sports and culture are quite related areas – this claim by the Greens, ladies and gentlemen, makes me afraid! You don't believe all the serious that you've leased the truth! And you won't believe all the serious things – just as they did in sports before – that you can also use this for yourself in the cultural field and then define the following: What art is, the Green Group determines, and what the Green Group defines as art is what we promote and support. That's what I'm telling you: Good night Austria, if someday it should come that far! Our position is quite different. We want where freedom stands, where there is self-determination, where there is basically independence, to be exactly that inside. Unfortunately, this is a difficult path in these areas. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I am afraid of the day when you have anything to talk about at the federal level, because then there are bans on thinking. This is basically a scandal, which you have listed today and which you are constantly caught: if you are increasing as a family police force in this Republic! That's incredible what you're doing. You should really go into yourself; perhaps you use the art and cultural debate to finally realize this opportunity. To the law: Yes, the positive thing is that the law brings an extension beyond the scope of pension insurance into the field of health and accident insurance. That's a reasonable thing. It is not only an extension, it is also a certain differentiation and clarification that we can obtain a lot of positive things. I don't have to list all these measures now. But of course you have to ask yourself one question or another. The question that I am particularly interested in here is why the Federation, silently and secretly out of the responsibility, namely from the financing responsibility, and which it has given to the cable TV, does not assume this responsibility. In addition to the successful athletes, the successful artists, the "Oscar" winners and others, are the favorite children of politics. That's what we know: Whoever has watched the newspapers in recent weeks, who has watched television, has seen that all have won the “Oscar”. That means you like to hang out with these people. But then, please also take responsibility for being financially right! And it is not to be burdened by a detour construction people who basically have nothing to do with it. You should think about whether that would not be the right way. Another thing about the repayments: It must be considered that we are dealing here with people – and now I am taking the upper limit of this law, as well as the lower limit – that are located at the lower end of the social scale. It's done for them. If one goes here and treats these people with senseless repayment claims – where one has to show evidence that is almost embarrassing to prove or not to prove income – if one is still considering what the entire Pallawach costs of collecting these claims, then one has to get to the head because this can never be expected. So I don't know why you're going through such horrors at all. Our position is not that, and the Minister has already leaned far and said that this nonsense will not exist with her. From our liberal point of view, then, what we decide here today is a step in the right direction. He should go a little further, but I believe that he has been quite successful in the difficult area between state art on the one hand and the people on the other, who depend on any macenatism, from whatever motives. One has met in the middle and helps those who really need it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15492	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Eder-Gitschthaler. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15516	Mr President. Minister! High house! I brought you a map today, in which a colorful variety of Salzburg cultural initiatives – yes, I am also a black one – can be found away from Salzburg's high culture. [[the speaker keeps them up to date]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: But this is a black map!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Newborn: Bravo!]] This is very important to me. Every day artists are highly committed and professional to bringing us culture in different facets and, of course, also to beautify our everyday lives. I only call the cultural association Tauriska, the young Philharmonie, Nobulus Jugendkultur, the Kleine Theater in Salzburg et cetera. Mrs Minister, you already know my desire to bring a little money from the Federal Capital to Salzburg again and again, away from the high culture. [[Abg. Steibl: It doesn't have to be all in Vienna either!]] [[Abg. Riepl: We have to check this together first!]] [[Further calls.]] You see, we appreciate the work of our artists. We also know, Mr Zinggl, that not all are in the spotlight and can earn a lot. Therefore, it has always been and always is an essential concern of our cultural policy to help, promote and support where it is necessary. Therefore, at the beginning of my speeches a great thank you for the work of our artists in Austria! They are not always comfortable, sometimes critical, but always committed and active with great missionary awareness. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Therefore, right here and at this point a complete yes to the law underlying the novelle and the current novelle – I really don't see mistakes in it, colleague Kickl, and I don't actually have fear in it – so that the framework conditions for the development of artistic creativity vote! The original law was created in 2000 by my colleague Franz Morak and his team. Due to the then far-sightedness and proper handling of available resources, we are now able to create an extension for all artists who have so much income from their artistic activities that they allow them to live on it as well. This mandatory insurance for working artists is very much at our heart. In recent years, therefore, € 30 million has already been paid out of the social pot. This money – as Mr Morak has already said – comes from cable and satellite providers. According to the Government Convention, it was now necessary to carry out an evaluation. Professor Mazal has established the basis for this by means of an appropriate opinion, and on this basis this novelle could be developed. The cornerstones have already been discussed several times today. It is particularly important to me, in addition to the fact that the benefits to health and accident insurance can now also be granted, to mention here that the income limit is set in future according to care obligations for children. That is, per child for whom family allowances are made up of, that can be raised by six times the monthly limit. We have thus taken another important step so that this group of persons can also live up to the compatibility of family and profession. I therefore gather: This novel represents an essential added value for all artists in Austria and is constitutionally compliant. The existing system has been developed on the basis of the wishes of the last five years. We are concerned with sustainability, so that our independent artists will receive the basis for their basic security over the next seven, ten, fifteen years. That is why I can only ask you to give your consent to this new law.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15620	The next speaker is Mr Reheis. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15642	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, one can say with fug and right, Austria is rich: rich in the diversity of artists and rich in the diversity of cultural initiatives. I think that artists who are not among those who are blessed with income, but who still have a high quality of art, must have the corresponding social security. I say free artists need a good social network. I think that this Künstler-Socialversicherungsfondsgesetz guarantees the corresponding freedoms and security, thus ensuring the guarantee for artists to work independently because they have the corresponding social security. I should also like to thank the Federal Minister for this, who, with her statement that artists should not get into the role of bitters and hardships belong to the past, and with this novel really has taken a long step in the right direction. One of the main measures concerns health and accident insurance. Until now, only grants for the pension insurance of the self-employed artists have been granted by the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds; in the future, an extension will also be made to the health and accident insurance grants. Artists with low income will thus also be able to obtain the maximum grant of €1,026. Furthermore, this has already been mentioned today, arrangements are being established to resolve existing hardships and avoid future recoveries. Mr Zinggl, you have also referred to Austria's Cultural Council today on your request. I do not know if you have read the criticism of the Council of Culture at your request – the criticism of the green foundation for artists at a glance, summarized by the Council of Culture Austria: “The Green Basic Guarantee for Artists is neither desirable nor objective in this version, since the project of a ‘real financial security’ referred to in the draft paper itself cannot be realized for ‘free work without fear of existence’. It is too inaccurate to understand the notions that administrative processes are under-thinked and that the money flows are insufficiently planned." I think you should think about it: The Cultural Council, quoted by you, does not recommend your request! [[Abg. Dr. Zinggl: But you agreed at first reading!]] I recommend that you accept the request made by the Government today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15676	The next speaker is Mr Haubner. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15700	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Yes, I would like to join my colleague Andrea Gitschthaler, who is very committed in Salzburg not only to the high culture, but also to all areas of culture and is always very active there. She has already explained in detail what achievements will be achieved with this novel to the Künstler-Sozialversicherungsfondsgesetz. I would also like to thank Andrea Gitschthaler very much for her initiatives in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can also, I believe, summarize briefly that today's decision on the novel of the Künstler-Sozialversicherungsfondsgesetz creates a clear improvement for the low-income artists. The details have already been explained. In principle, the system has proved to be successful, and the experience from the past has shown that it is beneficial if one or another is changed on time. That is why the proposal for adaptation presented by Professor Mazal is correct and has also been taken into account in this novel. I think it is possible to conclude that we have acted absolutely in a timely manner with these measures. They are a clear signal that the path of artist protection has been correct. It is almost the logical continuation of this path.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15736	Next is Mrs Mag. Reported on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15757	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I would like to highlight this novel on artist social insurance in the social security of those people who are artistically active and who also want to perform their artistic activities in the context of social security. The new, socially democratically led federal government has made it a very important concern to offer free workers, people with work contracts et cetera, a better social security. From this point of view, one can also judge today's novelle on the Künstler-Socialversicherungsgesetz. There was a request from social democracy in 2000: At that time, as regards the social security of artists, it was very urgent to include health and accident insurance. And you see: Within the framework of a new government which is led by social democracy, this aspect, which provides important social security for many artists, is fulfilled. These subsidies to health and accident insurance are a very large milestone, which we have set together with our coalition partner in a very effective way. The other points that bring about changes are: There are reliefs to reach the minimum income limit. It has always been noted here from the Fund that it has been very difficult for some people to reach. In addition, a valorization of the annual income limit takes place, so that the circumstances of the artists can always be addressed. [[The speaker found a microphone, and his foam cover fell.]] – I think the trick of this microphone is in a very extreme situation, because it falls down again and again. Mr Eder-Gitschthaler has already mentioned the care obligations for children: This too is a very important aspect to support women effectively in art and, of course, to improve the compatibility of work and family for women and men who work artistically and live in partnerships. Another important rule is that the grants that need to be repaid are from now on considered not only from an economic point of view, but also with a social component, and that not everything has to be repaid at once, but only that amount that has been exceeded or lowered. There is a very important and important additional milestone here. I would like to thank those experts who can best look at and manage the situation of artists in the fund, and of course Mrs. Schmied, who has taken another important step here, should also be thanked.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15822	The next speaker is Mr Pack. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15843	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I believe that the artist social insurance – which has shown the entire debate to date – has been positive since its creation. That's a good project! In any case, his further development is to be welcomed, which is not disputed. It is in the final effect, and the Minister has rightly mentioned this, that it is a promotion or support for low-income artists, with emphasis on income. When we look at this, we see that there was something to do in the area – Franz Morakhat described the origin very well. I believe that the step we are taking today is a logical continuation, and we will certainly continue to work on this project. But I think, in addition to supporting and promoting art and low-income artists, it is also very important that we devote ourselves to the following project again: That we say art and culture is also in the regions to support and strengthen outside the countries, because in the final effect it is so that regional cultural projects – Mrs. Gitschthaler has mentioned this too – often high own resources share and manage well, but unfortunately too little is supported by the federal government. At the time, Franz Morak has set up good initiatives which we have also gone out into the regions. – I think we should come back to ensuring that we also provide them accordingly. Then it is also possible for artists who do not live in the centres to build up their own market outside and thus improve their income in addition to the support they receive through these promotions. If you want to see it this way, this artist social insurance in the final effect is also a promotion for the youth, because young artists in particular depend on accepting this promotion. In this sense, I believe there is nothing more to say. She's definitely to be welcomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15897	Mr Stauber. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Also 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15919	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! What lasts for a long time will finally be good – I think under this motto you can probably see the reform of this artist's social security fund law. Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied and her team have succeeded in reforming this law in such a way that it represents real social support for artists in our country who need it. The current legal situation has been optimised in many areas, without – and that is, I believe, particularly important to us – that this will create more costs for the municipalities, the countries or the federal government. The financial resources required by the new regulations – about €800 000 – are spent by the Fund itself and are secured for years. The cornerstones of this reform have already been discussed here, so I would like to limit myself to the two most important ones. One is that, by flexibilising the income limits, the number of cases of hardship – unlike in the past – is likely to fall significantly, and thus the number of those who have seen themselves faced totally unexpectedly with repayment requirements. Secondly, the grinding system will ensure that the repayment obligation when the income limit is exceeded will be removed from the poison teeth. Finally, it could still be noted that it is already clear that not all wishes could be met at 100 percent; but that the Council of Culture does not see substantial improvements in this reform is, mildly expressed, also a remarkable finding. – Because with all due respect: If 95 percent of the demands of art and culture makers could be implemented, this is quite a remarkable step. And because of the lack of percentages of a reasonable, sustainable and social measure in Bausch and Bogen, it is not precisely evidenced by the far-sighted view of the artist otherwise. I think that has been a good and positive decision! I congratulate Mrs. Minister! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15956	The last speaker to speak in this debate was Mr Zweytick. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e15977	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! If you are congratulated, as my previous speaker did, you must not forget that this path has a long history. At that time he took his start under Chancellor Schüssel, especially thanks to the innovative power of our then State Secretary Franz Morak. This was also the “inventor” of the budget allocation – that must already be mentioned –: These funds come from a special fund, fed by cable and satellite providers, in order to secure financing in the long term, and this idea came from Franz Morak; this too should be said on that day and at the end of this debate. – We are very happy about this! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] In fact, this helps us all, because the art and cultural location of Austria will also be upgraded in the future, and what significance this one has in the world, we all know: We see it almost daily not only in the federal capital, but also in the regions. – Of course, there is still much to do here, and of course there is still great public support here. Thanks be to God the artists are very motivated, but only the least can really rise – perhaps that makes art so interesting or so especially valuable in this country, and not only in our country, because there are, as we know, also great international successes. In the end, I would like to say this in allusion to the hundreds of people quoted a few weeks ago, who, as my previous speaker Lapp pointed out, came out of this new government of social democracy, summarizing and a little modified in this way: This is a bowl-and-morak-thousand for all the artists concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16032	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? – That's not the case. We are therefore voting on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the federal law on the establishment of a fund for the promotion of the contributions of the independent artists to the statutory social security, including the title and receipt in 414 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Culture to take note of its report 460 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign on this point. - That's the majority. Accepted. [[17:30:35]] 6. Point Report of the Building Committee on the Government Template (432, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Baustandercontracts Act is amended (469 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16096	We're on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Dr. Sonnberger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16129	Mr President. Ms. Minister of Justice! High house! At the beginning, let me say that I am very pleased that the changes to the contract building contract law have recently been unanimously adopted in the Building Committee. The focus of this law is on improving the legal position of the acquirers of housing and business premises. There has been some major problem in recent years, and now, after ten years – ten years ago, this law was passed here in the House – it has responded and is implementing improved legal protection for consumers. I think the task was difficult insofar as, while improved legal protection is possible at every stage and in every quality, on the other hand, it also raises the question of the cost of this improved legal protection. These different objectives had to be reconciled: On the one hand, improved legal protection for consumers should be ensured, but on the other hand, it should also be ensured that the consumer can afford to do so. I think it's the law that's exactly what's going on in the middle. If you know what was desired at the beginning and what came out, you can be quite satisfied, I think. I would also like to thank the head of section Kathrein and his civil servants very much, who, together with the Minister of Justice, negotiated this law very carefully in the Ministry of Justice, involving the social partners and the Members. In practice, the minimum requirements for builder contracts will contribute to more understandable contracts so that they become more clearly legible that it will ultimately have to be pointed out the rights and obligations. It is also necessary to grant a refund of at least 2 per cent in favour of consumers in order to ensure due warranty and damages due to inadequate performance for the duration of three years or to provide a guarantee or insurance. This point was a bit controversial, because this, of course, is indirectly linked to the risk that these 2%, which only flow three years later, may be charged to the price; this will have to be looked at carefully. There is, of course, a danger here, but I assume that in a healthy competition these costs do not necessarily hit. The rights of withdrawal of consumers will be extended and the deadlines extended. – I don’t think that hurts anyone and brings a really better situation for consumers. The existing rules will be maintained in a modified and clarified form in the area of supported housing. There will also be two Council plans in the future: one with a bank guarantee, where there are larger rates, and one with no bank guarantee, where there are smaller rates, to secure consumers. Civilian technicians and experts shall have a liability insurance of at least €400 000 per insurance case. – I think these are the essential points. I do believe that this will lead to a reasonable law being passed. But that all future cases are so to speak, I do not necessarily believe, but it is definitely a step in the right direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16188	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16209	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The construction contract law is now ten years old, and of course there have also been problems in practice, there have been shortcomings. There has been bankruptcy, and there has not always been sufficient protection, so that the landlords lost their advance payments. At the request of our colleague Jacky Maier, this has already been said, the social partnership organisations, the construction and real estate industry and the Minister of Justice Berger have been involved in this draft law. Today we have this regulation, which should be a better guarantee instrument for consumers in the event of insolvency, in the event of a construction stop by the builders. I would like to take a brief look at an example of what has changed here so that we can better understand it. First, let's take the old model, the previous regulation: A consumer has bought an apartment at the price of 200 000 € and has paid according to the rate plan model. The first rate was 30 percent, which was €60,000, to be paid for the note in the base book and in case of a building permit. The builder is in bankruptcy after a relatively short period of time, and the construction project is discontinued. Now the consumer faces the problem that the property share is €20 000 and the construction performance is €9 000, so he has a so-called value of €29 000 in his hands, but he has paid €60 000. A new builder is coming, it does not continue the construction immediately. It cannot keep the old prices and still requires €180 000. – That means, in total, this property costs €240 000, and the damage is € 40 000. Now the calculation according to the new model with the same price, 200 000 €: The first rate at €30 000 is 15 percent. After a short period of time, the builder will go into bankruptcy again; 20 000 € will be the property share, 9 000 € the planning and construction services; it is 29 000 € to be borne by the builder. The new contractor does not immediately rebuild, and it is also more expensive in this case. More recently, it is €180 000 that he requires additional construction costs. That would be €210 000, and the damage would amount to €10,000. Now the bank guarantee, which is redeemed, comes into play, and thus the acquirer is unharmed and in this case has no damage according to the new model. I think this work of law shows that advanced policies have been made in a very consensual way, in the sense of the housekeepers who are in the interests of consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16252	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16288	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! I recall the following: in Tyrol: Builder Domizil-Baufir- men, bankruptcy; in Salzburg: Gassner, bankruptcy; in Vienna: SEG GmbH, more than 200 apartments and row houses, buyers have serious disadvantages. – Ten years of building company law could not prevent housing buyers, buyers of commercial plants from partially creating up to 30 percent higher costs. There is a need for reform on all sides! We have already submitted a four-party application in the last legislative period towards reforming the building block law, in the direction of improving the situation for buyers. Thank you very much for working in the meantime, thank you, Mrs. Minister, has recognised this as important, and so we can really decide on one of the truest points of the word of all-party consensus here today – and my colleague will then make some critical comments. It could have been even better formulated or oriented into the contents and become even more consumer-friendly. But I confess: In the interests of optimal immediate effect, even in the sense of a moderate price development concept, the current solution is acceptable. It prevents the buyers from having additional costs in the future, because, as outlined above, there will be rate plans in the future, the guarantee will be improved, the detention will be regulated differently and security models will be taken in addition. We want to take this joint action, Mrs Minister, to point out something important, which I hope will be discussed tomorrow in a quickly appointed building committee, namely the currently drastic price developments in the housing market and in rents. We know that housing rents are based on the index, the index of inflation, and inflation has just adopted a significant amount last December. By law, rental increases are based on these index and inflation developments, and we have at the target value these 3 percent clauses. ==References====External links== April. Mrs Minister, you have just arrived in time – and there is swinging, allow me, including a small accusation, to find that a change is urgently needed here. Actually, in January, February we could have discussed it in peace, because then we could have bound an overall package and not – ho ruck! – Now it is necessary to decide an emergency measure which, I believe, is intended to consist of using all months in one year as an inflation criterion, on which, as it were, the index and the price adjustment are orientated, instead of harmonizing overall and arguing in the indicative value range similar to in the category rental area, and then retaining the 5 percent clause as having legal effect. If we discuss this tomorrow, I would like to have, Mrs Minister – that is why I am saying this today, because perhaps you can already give the National Council some sort of guarantee today – that it does not remain with this year's calculation, because if we decide on Thursday with an annual calculation, then that is the case. Rather, in view of the uniformization of the rental right that had already been established years ago – in Laxenburg, the Enquete Michalek, your predecessor, has been influenced by this date technician; this was also about this uniformization, about clauses and about the index adjustment – towards meter-friendly harmonization. Madam Minister, from this perspective too, I would have liked to hear from you today that it will not remain in this Ho-ruck action plan of tomorrow, that we really meet a coherent overall solution with a view to a cost-effective design of living. A cornerstone of a coherent overall solution in another area, with the builders, succeeds today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16346	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement to speak. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16367	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! High house! The contract law sounds a bit dry and seems to be a bit boring, but behind it is a huge problem, behind which is that families can make the biggest financial investment in their lives and put their entire life income at risk when it goes by. This is about buying the property, as it is about building savings contracts, inheritances are being brought in, savings are brought in, and with housing and credit, this largest construction project must be secured by most families. What happens when the builder goes into bankruptcy? – All the money is gone, everything that has been saved is gone, and families often face the financial ruin. This construction contract law has already done a great deal in the last ten years, has brought absolutions. But now a study by Professor Helmut Böhm has shown that there can still be improvements, especially with appropriate means and reasonable additional costs. It is simply about opening up more transparent contractual relations with this new law and filling up gaps that have existed for consumers there and there. There was the discussion in the Committee that not every risk could be excluded, but I believe that the point is that both really benefit: the builder on the one hand, because there is a certain legal certainty, but also the acquirer, who can now expect more transparent resolution. It is simply important to secure, break down and make a more transparent contract design of these prepayments which I have already made. In practice, it is already the case that much is handled through bank guarantees and that, depending on the credit quality of the builder, payments account for 1 to 2 percent and thus are already relatively secure. The law could, of course, lead to certain risks that are included in the project leading to an increase in the cost of the entire project. In total, however, this is a clear improvement of the law. We're glad we're going to make a five-party application or decision here. This is certainly good, and that is why the Freedom Party will agree. A note which is very important in this overall discussion is still permitted. We have experienced in the Surprime crisis that there have been huge cuts in the area of housing and that many people in the US have had huge problems due to wrong loans. There were banks that packed these real estate loans into highly complicated modern financial products and sold them worldwide. This real estate crisis spread to Europe and led to more than 300 billion losses worldwide in this Surprime crisis. This was the case before the Court of also the Swiss large bank UBS, which had to lose €2.7 billion. What is to be derived from it? . I believe that we also need to comply with the recommendation of the Austrian central bank to improve transparency for investors and to introduce a global European rule on hedge funds. It is therefore important to protect Austrian house builders, Austrian builders, but also the banks and the entire economy from such speculations. I believe that this area should also be discussed at the next committee meetings.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16422	The next speaker is Mr Schalle. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16444	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The construction contract law of 1997 aims to ensure the protection of the acquire of an apartment, which often has to be paid long before the residence is ready for reference, from the loss of its money in the insolvency of the builder and from unconventional contracts. A building contract under the law is a contract between the builder and an acquirer on the acquisition of property, housing property, building rights, right of inventory, rental, lease or other rights of use in buildings, apartments or premises which are first built or completely renewed. Contracts on existing premises are not covered. The present amendment to the law is intended to close smaller gaps in the protection of the acquirer. The main changes to the amendment to protect the acquirer are: concreteisation of the mandatory content of the contract; Contract design requirements, in particular for the rate planning method – Plan A: Relocation of the deposit at the beginning of the construction activity, Plan B: Repatriation of the payment to the completion of the construction activity –; certain, partially inappropriate safeguard instruments such as § 8 and the guarantee should no longer be permitted or restricted at the expense of the acquire; further, the withdrawal rights of the acquire shall be extended from one week to two weeks in accordance with European law and the right of withdrawal of door door operations shall be approximated in terms of content. This requires further protection for the buyer. It should no longer happen that the little man or family – see the events at the bankruptcy in Salzburg and many more – remains on the track. This law secures him a hundred percent of his money for which he must have worked hard. On the one hand, there are no objections to this government template, and we will also give it our consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16481	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Berger spoke from the government bank. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16502	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I find it very gratifying that such a broad agreement is given to the construction contract law. I would like to thank all of you, especially those who spoke in the Building Committee, who have contributed to this broad agreement and who, in their first contributions, have now acknowledged the content of this government template and have partly addressed history. In fact, some dramatic bankruptcys have shown the weaknesses of the existing law. It was then the Chamber of Workers of Tyrol, which has obtained an opinion from Professor Böhm, and this opinion has made it clear that besides many economic circumstances, there are certainly protective gaps in the law itself. I would also like to thank the House for its unanimous resolution at that time, which has given a further impetus to the work on a novel. The work took five years. I admit, this is a very long time. This long period of time has also resulted in the fact that in fact the effort was very strong, on the one hand, to take into account very many consumer-side wishes for better security, but at the same time not to allow the costs associated with it to rise to the immeasurable. In the absence of competition, it should be feared that these costs will ultimately also have to be borne by consumers. I would like to address some of the points of the Government's proposal which have not been so focused in the previous debate, but which seem very important to me to be mentioned here. This is one of the areas of application. This law applies only if the acquirer has more than 150 € per square meter to pay. Payments to third parties, for example to the public for clearing costs, or payments for special requests, shall also be taken into account if they are based on the contract or are specified by the builder. The content of the contract must be redesigned with the date of entry into force of July 2008. This should in particular help the acquirer to develop a better understanding of what he is now signing for and what obligations he is making. The builder must inform about all essential points of the contract, i.e. the object, equipment, the relevant total plant, the price and the modalities of his remuneration, but also, for example, whether the contract object is located in a endangered zone – flood, avalanche zone or an old load area. We've already talked about the detention. The extension of the right of withdrawal is also to be mentioned. If the builder has not communicated all the essential details to the acquirer at the latest one week before the declaration of the contract, a right of withdrawal shall be granted to the acquirer. The period of withdrawal will be extended from one week to 14 days. There is a new design for the safeguards. As already mentioned, a guarantee will not be sufficient in the future. In the case of a bank guarantee or equivalent insurance, the acquirer will no longer be obliged to make a legal judgment when the guarantee is used. Special arrangements will also be provided for the supported rental of housing. This requires the credit certificate of a auditor or a revisor. The redesign of the Council plan has already been presented by Mrs Becher's excellently chosen example, and I think there is indeed a great increase. Finally, of course, I would also like to thank the officials of the Ministry of Justice, once again also the Building Committee and the social partners who have been so constructively involved in this. As Mrs Moser referred to the rental right: I admit that it was only very late that the inflation rate of December was applied in accordance with the current index clause for the indicative values. We're on the Official statements of the ÖSTAT that took place in February, and with this announcement it has become clear that if we did not yet intervene as legislators, an increase of 3.6 percent would have to be made, of course, an increase that would not be justified compared to the average annual inflation and would almost have a random value for a long time in a rental increase. We agreed to go to the average annual value of about 2.2 percent, and a small sample of calculations shows that this can bring a very strong savings. Based on a rental of €500 per month, this new regulation we are proposing now will save €84 net, and if the VAT is expected to be more than €92, now calculated for one year. I know there would have been other models, but the now proposed model with a threshold of 5 percent immediately would unfortunately mean that although for a few months now nothing will be paid, if the development continues this way, there would have to be a very strong increase in the indicative values in December of this year. And I think it is particularly unpleasant for households to face a very high increase in their rents in December. The present proposal is not alone. I can confirm this here, and Mr. Sonnberger will agree with me. We have agreed to bring about an approximation with regard to the index clauses in the context of an already pending revision of the rental law and other parts of the residence right – there is already quite a confusion that is caused by the various clauses – and to see that we also come to this 5 percent for the indicative index calculation. The aim should be that we or the tenants will not be confronted with any further increase next year. Further arrangements are also planned for autumn, which, on the basis of a recent social partners' agreement, can also work very strongly towards the discharge of tenants, and it is also recognised by the social partners that the very mine-friendly judicture of the Supreme Court is also directly incorporated into the applicable law. So it does not remain with this step, and I thank everyone who was willing to support this small, but very, very important, especially economically for many very important steps by agreeing that tomorrow a meeting of the Building Committee can take place. I would have preferred to see these developments in advance and to see more detailed discussions and perhaps even now a more comprehensive package. Unfortunately, this has not been possible through the process that has been given here. But let's take this first little step. Those who are affected by these rental increases – at least 350 000 households in Austria – will certainly thank this House if we are able to prevent such an disproportionate and unwarranted increase in this form. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16588	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16609	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A few weeks ago, on German television, a shocking report about a young family that has stood up, all her money, that she wanted to invest in a new apartment, was gone because this builder just went bankrupt. No one's been able to help. The tears of this family on television alone probably did not help her either, and the distress was very great. – And that’s what we want: To prevent such a situation in Austria. It is precisely the aim of today's contract law, which is intended to guarantee, on the one hand, understandable contracts, on the other hand, that builders should be left behind in favour of consumers, on the other hand, to extend the right of withdrawal, but at the same time maintain the scheme for promoted residential buildings. The overall objective of this innovation is to improve consumer protection while at the same time reducing costs. I believe – and also the simplicity here in the House shows it – that it is a necessity, it is a good law that is passed today: above all, and primarily in favour of and for the benefit of consumers, so that things, as I described earlier, cannot happen in Austria. No one is found, for there are also frauds – and against frauds you can actually do little if it is the fraudulent intention to bring someone in. Mrs. Minister, housing costs are also being discussed, and it is a pleasure to see a meeting of the Building Committee tomorrow and to decide on Thursday that the target rents will not be increased by 3.6 per cent, but by 2.2 per cent, especially in view of the well-known fact of index calculation. But now we know, Mrs Minister, that housing costs include several factors. On the one hand, these are the pure cost of financing – these are not the high costs – but primarily the cost of living are the operating costs and, above all, the energy costs. I believe that it is also an hour's commandment to look at – whether in the tax reform or in its own run – how we in Austria, through thermal renovations, through measures that cover everyone – and we are talking here about about about 1 million households and single-family homes – that we can reduce the operating costs in such a way that in the future we may be able to save ourselves small deposits, no more, with rent financing. That would, I think, be the greatest saving. That is why I appeal to everyone to ensure that we carry out this thermal renovation in the short term or even in the medium term. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Bravo!]] I come to the end, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Since sand is also a building material and it naturally fits into the Building Committee – from sand we have heard a lot in the past – I would like to name this with circuit viciosus; Devil's circle is in German: As a child, he already dreamed in the sand, I want to be chancellors in the country. Now he is chancellor here in the country and unfortunately again on the sand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16667	The next speaker is Mr Ehmann. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16690	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Today, through a pleasant consensus of all parliamentary parties, we will decide to make a significant improvement in the construction contract law. In the future, it will mean: First build, then pay. This, of course, refers to the building progress of the object. The new law will therefore remove existing risks by means of a strong safety net. Here we also have a negative example in the Styria, the Causa Life-House, which will be known to many. The main element of better security will be two types of council plans in the future. The builder may only receive money from the acquirer or the acquirer, which also corresponds to the progress of the construction. Even at a possible construction stop, a further construction by another company is possible. Furthermore, payments made so far by the acquirer/purchaser or the builder to the builder have been secured by the already existing building. The obligation of the builder to point out whether the object is located in a periphery or avalanche-related danger zone or in a flood river basin also plays an important role in the purchase decision by the acquirer. Consent is in the interests of consumers, and I am already looking forward to the vote. I didn't prepare a four-liner, I'm sorry, but I did fit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16728	The next speaker is Mrs Hradecsni. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16749	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Little surprising, of course, we will also agree to this legislative novel – my colleague Gabi Moser has already mentioned it – as she clearly represents an improvement to the current state of affairs. The various consumer protection institutions have also expressed great satisfaction with regard to the novelle. However, I am not entirely aware of some criticisms, i.e. points with which we are not so satisfied, and we regret first of all that one of the cornerstones of the original draft, namely the mandatory bank guarantee, is no longer contained in the draft law. [[Abg. Steibl: Ah go, that's something new!]] In particular, the legal right to a bank guarantee would have contributed to a significant risk minimisation or would have been a very effective guarantee against any additional costs; Additional costs – that has already been mentioned – can be incurred by the insolvency and the resulting construction stop of the builders. Mr Becher presented this very plausibly and comprehensiblely. The unfortunate thing is that young families have often come into almost insurmountable financial distress. I would say that the credit quality of the builders has not played an essential role in the bank guarantee, from the point of view of consumer protection, is not at all detrimental. The intention of this novel is to avoid, as far as possible, the additional costs mentioned, which, according to estimates by the Chamber of Labour, can be up to 30 percent. One of these safeguards, the Council plan, which has already been mentioned several times, has now been refined and is also a clear improvement. However, in order to be able to use the safer A rate plan, there is a need for urgent housing. Another point I would like to address is the detention. I don't really understand why the detention deposit was reduced from originally 3 percent to 2 percent. I cannot fully share the assessment that the improvement or introduction of security instruments will lead to an increase in costs. Why not? – A detention deposit of between 2 and 5 percent, which is valid for three years from the date of transfer, is already an absolutely common security instrument. No contracting authority or trader would be awarded a contract without contractual agreement of the highest possible amount of detention. This is usually 3 per cent for construction objects, but in other sectors it is also 5 per cent and is valid for just three years. Granted, for the first time, the detention in this novel is laid down by law, perhaps this is the reason why there were discussions or concerns. I too have annoyed the statement made by you, Mr Donnerbauer, in the course of the discussion we had in the committee, that it is not possible to secure ourselves against all the risks in life. [[Abg. Gahr: Life is a risk!]] – That’s true, of course, but in that case it is very likely to minimize the risks, which is why the current legislative novel also finds our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16802	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haimbuchner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16823	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Don't worry, it won't be that long. It is quite interesting that even on this issue, on which there is already an agreement, the coalition has to do with the fact that one still has to throw a little sand into the gear, as colleague Grossruck has said. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gahr.]] But it doesn't change the fact that the revision of the contract building contract law is of course reasonable. We Liberals therefore agree to this amendment. As has already been mentioned many times today, the acquisition of housing and business premises is a huge financial burden for both consumers and, of course, an entrepreneur and, above all, a challenge. It is true what my colleague, Mr Klement, said. It all sounds awfully dry, but in reality, of course, it is a matter that has already touched very many people very strongly. They've received loans. They've completed guarantees. A lot has been burdened – even relatives, parents, grandparents have taken loads there, and then at the end of the day a builder may have gone into bankruptcy and one has stood up empty-handed. It is important, of course, that there is this protection for consumers. But there is not only protection for consumers, but there is also protection for entrepreneurs. The guarantee risk has now been better secured for the buyer. We can only remember that there have been contractual constructions – since there have been especially “vife” lawyers who have made sure that the acquirer then no longer had any claims for damages or claims for warranty at all. That could now also be removed. In my opinion, the gaps have been largely eliminated, and the design of a contract has become more transparent. This is, of course, of enormous importance for any acquirer of a business space or an apartment. The builder now - we have already heard this - has to grant the acquireer a 2 percent imprisonment for the duration of three years in order to secure any claims for warranty and damages. Of course, it is true that some builders or the construction industry have been criticised by some, quiet criticism, which has been so heard, because one meant, well, even more protection for consumers. But this, unfortunately, is God's problem. On the one hand, of course, we have a lot of entrepreneurs, of course also the vast number of builders that really make their business very honest. On the other hand, there are black sheep. [[Abg. Gahr: What insight!]] And precisely these black sheep are then again and again that require tougher regulations. That is why the economy must not complain about this either. So I'm the last one who always goes here and says, The economy is guilty and the businessman is guilty and all consumers are good! It's not like that. Only once do you have to see that it has always been through extreme individual cases – and that has been done – not only in Germany, as Mr Großruck mentioned, but also in Austria – people have really been thrown into ruin. This must be avoided in all cases. This is to be done in a proper rule of law and to take the appropriate measures – also in private autonomy. That is something you have to worry about in every case. In this sense, this building contract law is a reasonable matter. Much of what has been said is correct, is supportive. I would just like to reply briefly to Mrs Hradecsni, because you meant that there is no guarantee: As far as I know the draft law or the government proposal, the acquirer is guaranteed a guarantee. I don't know exactly what you meant in concrete terms. So finally, again: That's a reasonable thing. It is now also now the old path findermotto registered, every day a good act – in this sense a five-party compromise. A reasonable thing, not a lazy compromise, but something that will certainly bring forward Austria's economic location, because this will also ensure greater security for the acquirers of housing and business premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16866	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16887	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been stressed by many of my previous speakers how important consumer protection is, the protection of people seeking housing and consumers. So, of course, we should welcome this law and thank God for finding a way to make improvements together. In recent years, it has also been repeatedly responded to individual incidents and has tried to re-adjust the classification of the contract law on problems accordingly. I think that this is a good and a right step in this direction again. What I tried to point out – including in committee – to Mrs Hradecsni, Mrs Hradecsni, is that, on the other hand, we do not want to scatter sand into the gear again, as my previous speaker said, but also, I believe, should not scatter sand into the eyes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] Of course, every consumer, every person seeking housing, should take a good look at his contractual partner. I also believe that information is a very important step towards greater consumer protection and consumer protection. I believe that only the law alone cannot make sufficient contribution to this because, ultimately, one must also say, protection and protection for the consumer in this case, for the contractor's contractor's contractor's contractual partner, there is no zero tariff. That is, all that we provide for additional safeguards in the law – such as a bank guarantee that ultimately costs the entrepreneur something – will naturally also be reflected in the price. That's all right, too. But one should therefore also keep in mind this aspect and, of course, consider any security on the legal side also with regard to the price and therefore proceed appropriately and with home mind and mind. That's what we're doing here with this novel of the construction contract law. Therefore, I think it is good that we will take this decision today. Of course, it is also important to take into account the issue of housing costs in the fight against inflation – and this has always been stressed in the discussion before. I am therefore also pleased that tomorrow we are making a contribution to the Building Committee and that we are following a proposal from the ÖVP to use the average – and not just a single index. However, I would also like to say the following in this area: I believe that even here, one should not only confine oneself to the question of rents – here it is, one must also stress that there is a pure guarantee of value, which is ultimately enshrined in the law here, i.e., only a value of the agreed rent – but also the much larger area of fees, energy costs and so on. This is why, for example, the proposal by the Minister of Finance and Vice-Cancellor Molterer to decide to stop a fee here, I believe that one who can not only make a much greater contribution to housing costs, but also benefits everyone, not only the tenants. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In Austria, many hundreds of thousands of families live not only in a rental apartment, but also in a family house, in an apartment and in the property. A fee stop will ultimately benefit all in reducing their housing costs. We should therefore also address and implement this aspect in the next few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16939	The next speaker is Mr Fazekas. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16962	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Haimbuchner, it is not all sand-in-driving-driving, but it also works quite well. There is the fundamental right or freedom of art; this has been used by Mr Großruck. That didn't hurt, it's nothing at all. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Passt eh!]] Today we have talked about a far more serious subject, it is about creating and obtaining housing, especially in the case of young families and to a large extent. They are the sufferers when they have reached the limits of their loadability and then sometimes – and we have already heard this enough today – stand before nothing in the event of insolvency. We know that, especially in non-profit housing cooperatives, there is much less risk at stake, because the construction decisions are made on the basis of the actual situation and not against the background of speculative expectations. I think it is very important to point this out. Finally, human fates remain on the road. It is also to be welcomed that there is a Council plan, which has already been mentioned today, and that future residents will be given their apartment at an agreed price, in particular. I would like to thank the Minister for Justice very much for being able to implement this issue so quickly and so importantly, because it is necessary that we help people. We will also make an important contribution to supporting and helping where it is possible to help people to eventually have more money on the wallet. We will hopefully be able to decide this together tomorrow. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e16997	The next speaker is Mr Hoefinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17018	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is nice that we have brought together an agreement here and today we can make a five-party request. In fact, there is a need for addition to the construction contract law, which we have repeatedly noticed in recent years. There were some gaps in this ten-year-old law, which is why Bauwerber fell over their advance payments over and over again. It is, as has already been mentioned, many young people among them, many young families, but of course many others. It must not be forgotten that these people are at the crossroads of their lives. They want to build a existence, they want to buy a home or a business location where they bring savings and take up loans – and then everything is lost, namely, years and often decades of work. The fact that this is an up-to-date topic we experience once a year again. We know from the statistics that over 1,000 insolvent construction companies last year have done well over €100 million of damage. So the thing is more up-to-date than ever. Due to these so-called gaps of protection, which have existed so far, many are still uncertain when it comes to deciding to acquire a business or an apartment by means of the Contracting Parties Act. But this is not in the interest of the builders themselves or in the interest of the construction industry. On the other hand, it would not be useful if we were to have rules that are superfluous now. This would have caused the construction contractors to be heavily burdened with costs. I think it is a good medium-sized route that we have found: to the safety of the builders, but also to the safety of the builders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17057	Mr Voller. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17079	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Many people who decide to create a home using their savings, but many of those who wanted to build are familiar with the processes surrounding the life-house history in Styria. These people were either deterred from their construction project or would have stayed on a huge pile of costs for which they could not do anything. In 2004, the Tyrolean AK President Fritz Dinkhauser noted: The last ones bite the dogs. – This saying is true when buying a new property to be built by the provisions which are detrimental to the buyers in the contract law. The study author, Professor Dr. Böhm, then appointed by the Chamber of Workers of Tyrol, said: ‘This model weighs At best, acquirers are safe without really offering them.” Many cases which have become public in the past show that the acquirers need to be better protected from the loss of their prepayments already made in case of the insolvency of the builder. For the future, a better guarantee is provided for the housing-purchasing people by means of newly designed council plans. Thus, only after the construction progress will the project promoters' financial performance to the builders be able to do so. This government template sets out an essential step towards improving the protection of those who are interested in construction. That is why I would like to take this opportunity today to thank all the parties involved and all negotiators who come to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17116	I call Mr Sieber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17137	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I too, of course, welcome this novel of the construction contract law, because it brings more security to house builders and house buyers. By the way, I believe that many of my previous speakers have already given this novel. Mrs Minister, I would like to therefore only welcome the fact that we have found a very common path in the field of approximate rents, for landlords and tenants, with the departure from December-December to December to the average. I think it's portable for both sides. However, you have also announced that you want to make and will make further changes to the rental law. However, I would like to ask you to do so. ask or ask you to see the rents in their entirety, because it is not the landlords who are the price drivers, but it is the energy costs and the fees that raise the rental prices. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I do not think I must remind you that it was precisely the municipality of Vienna, owner of 150,000 municipal apartments, which, with excessive increases in this area, significantly raised the prices of rents. So here you would have had it very easy to provide corresponding reliefs. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] So if we are going to talk about changes in the rental law here, please with the fairness offered. I trust in our spokesperson Peter Sonnberger that we will discuss this law accordingly and that, above all, the path of commonness that we have taken and which we repeatedly write on the flags, namely that we want to continue and become something in the coalition together, will not be left again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17189	Mr Stauber. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17210	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Let me start with something positive. This contract law is of course very positive for all, which has been expressed in all contributions. Great, I think, for all of us, the Kurier reports are also today. [[The speaker shall keep a copy of the said paper up to date.]] These speak of: Rental: The increase in housing costs is slowed down by inflation. – I think that's positive for all of us. Thank you for this initiative, Mrs. Minister. I would just like to comment briefly on the statement by my colleague, Mr Sieber, that the price drivers in the apartments are the municipalities of the house-keepers and we would raise the prices for water, sewerage, waste disposal and so on. – Mr President, that is not the case! We in the municipalities are obliged to balance our tax budgets. We don't have a chance to get down somewhere. There you have to leave the church in the village. [[Abg. Sieber: I said this about Vienna!]] I'm talking about the small communities outside their rents – yes, you've talked about the city of Vienna, but we're talking about the small communities. [[Abg. Sieber: How many apartments do small communities have?- Oh, my God!]] I would like to add one more position: Let us also think of the house builders who are outside the rural regions, often pensioners and older people who live in larger houses and have to pay all the taxes for the whole building, contributions et cetera and can no longer pay all these bills. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] I would say that we also need to think something about this group for the future. This is a subject that will certainly be still to be resolved for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17270	I call Mr Praßl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17291	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! We're dealing with a law, that serves all. All the previous speakers of all political groups welcome it. I believe that this law, which came into force ten years ago, must be amended in respect of its many shortcomings. The Federal Minister has very impressively confirmed that changes are being made here. All parties agree. I believe that there are essential points here that ultimately make it possible for people who want to buy an apartment to do so without risk. I do not want to take the time to the full – it is a unanimous decision here. I express my warm thanks to all those involved and wish all the flat tenants good luck and nice hours in their apartment in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17324	Mrs Lueger is speaking. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17345	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Many media-public cases have documented that housing seekers should be additionally and better protected from the loss of prepayments already made in the event of the insolvency of the builder. With this new government template, these gaps of law are addressed, as the goal of the contract law is to ensure better protection for the acquirers of apartments, row houses or business premises and more rights for consumers. The practice – we have heard this many times now – has provided us with many, many cases. Mr Klement also said that a house building or a home purchase for young families is the biggest financial investment a family makes. When the builder goes into insolvency, people stay on the track with their most important investment. Economic disadvantages or major losses in the bankruptcy of the builder or the construction stop as well as unconventional contracts are therefore to be minimized. Consumers who legitimately request back their guaranteed advance payments should not be allowed to take part in a run-in or even lead a process against the builder, but should immediately come to their money. It has already been mentioned, of course, that detention, which is an additional measure to cover day-to-day warranty risks in the construction process. The aim of the amendment is to further clarify and improve the transparency of contracts by redefine the minimum content of such contracts. Lawyers and notaries who are always involved in these projects should be obliged to provide accurate and comprehensive information on the legal consequences of their signature. Since this government proposal was unanimously adopted in the Building Committee and I believe it is fully in the interests of consumers, we will also give our consent here.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17380	Mr Hörl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17403	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The revision of this ten-year-old law – which has already been said several times today – improves the legal position of the acquirers of housing and business premises, and of course we want to do so on cost-effective and manageable conditions, which is a very important issue especially in times of high inflation. Life is risk – from beginning to end, that is, to death. One should always be careful when regulating things, but I admit that the purchase of apartments, where it is a matter of creating living space, which has already been said today, represents a huge achievement for families of their lives. I believe that it is therefore quite right to bring about an improvement here and to protect these families from unscrupulous builders. It is thus ensured in this law with the new minimum requirements that construction contracts become more understandable. The detention period has been introduced, which here provides for improved security in the case of claims for damages. 3 percent were demanded, but that was not possible for God. It was also called on to regulate the trust risk of lawyers and the insolvency fund risk of banks. I think that would also be a point that would cause costs and that would go a little further. I believe that the beneficiaries are also required to inform themselves on the market and take on their own responsibility. The rights of withdrawal of consumers will be extended, which is also very positive, and there are different Council plans; there is also an improvement. I think it is also very important that builders, involved notaries and lawyers have information requirements and, so to speak, alert the user to what happens with his signature and what he has to do. Civil engineers and experts must increase their insurance. I think that's important, even in the interests of the companies, to buy the business premises. This is also important in the interest of the builders. I think it's right that we do this. ==References====External links== In July, it entered into force on the basis of contracts previously concluded. I would like to thank everyone, including the social partners, who have worked here. I also thank the native Tyrolean and section head Dr. Kathrein and his officials who worked here. What we need is, I think, personal responsibility in this sector, as well as in many others. We need trust, self-reliance and trust again. We need confidence in the economy, which for its part also depends on trust, because otherwise it does not have customers. Black sheep, unsavory companies must also be eradicated in the interests of the economy. I'm trying to decide on this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17446	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Prince. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17468	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! This law provides more protection for the acquirers of housing and business premises, while at the same time keeping the associated costs within a reasonable framework. Builders are an essential pillar in the creation of rental and ownership dwellings as well as of business premises. Today's law will make a number of existing Regulation improved. This should provide more clarity and clarity for both sides. As a representative of the rural area, I have the desire to invest more in rural areas. Many builders or housing companies invest exclusively in the agglomerations, while few are willing to invest in rural communities. However, for the development of the municipalities, there is also a certain range of durable rental and ownership apartments. This is about the renovation of objects in urban cores and thus about their recovery as well as new buildings. If we talk about this problem with housing companies, we hear again and again that certain adjustments are necessary in order to increase the willingness to invest in rural communities. My request is to give this subject complex more importance in the future and to try together to achieve improvements here.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17504	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to take their seats, because we are now coming to the votes. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 432 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is unanimously accepted again. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[18:37:23]] 7. Point First reading: Request from Members of Parliament Karl Oellinger, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the General Social Insurance Act BGBl. No. 189/1955, as last amended by BGBl. I No. 76/2007 is amended (555/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17562	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17590	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has been mentioned before that we are in another year of commemoration, and I have found it somewhat strange that for this year of commemoration, which is one with the final number eight, here in the house was argued that there are still groups we have not yet thought of. I think it was Mr Graf. He mentioned the displaced. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Among other things!]] - Among other things. And the “wives of debris. ” This commemorative year refers primarily to 1938, and not to 1945, nor to 1918. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: 1918 was the first banishment! Don't forget!]] – Don't come with me now with the expulsions 1918! There are no more living persons, even if we were to deal with them. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: First Republic!]] No, Mr Graf, I think it is very important to make the right historical references in this commemorative year. 1938 was the year the Nazi troops marched into Austria. For the first time, the question – unfortunately, Mr. Habsburg yesterday tried to put something into the carnival period – is whether one really wants to deal with what affected Austria in 1938, when Austria was actually victims, but when Austria was not in the form of the tens of thousands, but the hundreds of thousands who have marched there, of course, also perpetrators. In addition, Austria had a history from 1934 to 1938, which led to it. I do not want to say more in this context because I lacked time, but not because I lacked interest. I also liked to say that – and that can be done without excitement, as I mean! – President Spindelegger, who made an attempt to open the period 1934 to 1938. No, I'm about 1938, and then I'm talking about what was after that. And here, at this first reading, we have to deal with a section that regulates the times of war, which are within the framework of the German Wehrmacht – not the Austrian Wehrmacht or the Austrian military! – have been spent when replacement times are regulated. And I think that this regulation is also sensible and correct. We have also said this in the explanatory statement on this own-initiative proposal that we have nothing to do with it – on the contrary, we think it is right! – that these service times are also compensated. Moreover, that we have nothing to do with the fact that after 1945 attempts were made – and also this regulation that I refer to here – is one that can be seen in the context of this – to enable the former National Socialists to integrate into this society. The fact that these regulations were not always the happiest ones can also be discussed with us. But this is not the issue, but the subject and the one we are calling on you to do, ladies and gentlemen, is simply the fact that within the framework of these activities within the German Wehrmacht, of course, persons were also active and have been compensated for by replacement times that were criminally active within the framework of criminal organizations that should not fall under this protective cover replacement times for the time in the German Wehrmacht. And these organizations, which are here, are also listed. I would just like to say to you, Mr Graf, that: We also know that Mr Herbert Schweiger, his sign of a well-known right-wing radical neonazi from Styria, is now trying to publish a book in which he is working in the framework of the Waffen-SS, within the framework of a criminal organization – and he knows why he is trying to present it as an elite unit! - trying to legitimise. We know that – if Mr Schweiger has received a pension, and I suppose he has received it – in this request and in this attempt to correct the fact that these people are not supposed to receive it, it is not about knowing this pension. This is not even possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] – Mr Colleague, say it afterwards! It is simply and striking that the Republic once and for all makes it clear that it should not provide time for a criminal organisation, whether it was the SS, the Waffen-SS or any other criminal organisation, within the framework of the ASVG. This clarification is necessary and also useful.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17671	The next speaker is Mr Muchitsch. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17692	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As already stated in the explanatory statement of the application, this requested scheme does not have a negative impact on those pensioners who have previously obtained a pension, provided that they have acquired such replacement periods. In fact, if the conditions of claim have once been legitimately acquired, they will no longer be corrected retroactively. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the group of persons concerned is people who are already 82 today. I've had a year of life and more to finish. It should also be noted that those insured persons who have received these replacement periods have been confirmed by the war archive to the pension insurance institution. With regard to the prisoners of war compensation, it should be noted that a questionnaire was sent before their disbursement, in which it was also asked whether the persons were necessarily taken into the military service or were guiltlessly imprisoned in war. Only then, if they have not voluntarily joined an organization which, from today's point of view, constitutes a war criminal organisation, has this prisoner of war been granted compensation. So the question is: Should we give our consent to this request on the basis of legal or symbolic signs? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with all sensitivity, with all understanding for different views, for wanting or not wanting to discuss the errors in the past, one has to say that there are important social policy issues to solve, such as, in pension insurance, a fair heavy work scheme, a more practical pension calculation, to decide as legislative changes which have no practical and positive impact on the population of our country. [[demostratetive appeal to the FPÖ]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17732	The next speaker is Mr Weinzinger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17753	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If we have such a request in front of us, let us not spare a little story! Immerse yourself in the life of a then young man who came into existence in 1921, who, when he was educated in the public school, had experienced or at least had experienced his parents aware that the Palace of Justice was burning and that the police were shooting at the workers who were demonstrating there, who had lived as a 13-year-old, that his father, who was a worker – I am talking about a concrete person – was probably involved in the February coup and then spent two years in Wollersdorf, who had to live with him, that his home became an Austro-fascist dictatorship, in which it was not yet particularly good and in which the wife of the then Federal Chancellor via radio told the citizens how to make a soup out of sausages that his father – back from Wöllersdorf – had been unemployed, and who had to live with it – and that one also had to think about it, one must not know with that at that time and much more! – that here was a dictatorship that did not do anything, and over in the old kingdom, as it was then called, was a dictatorship that very probably produced something economically. Therefore, the sympathys were simply different at the time. And when the “connect” came in 1938, this man – like hundreds of thousands and millions of Austrians – believed that everything would now turn to the better. It was like that at the time! And he volunteered – young people believe so often that they do the right thing, and they don't know that it's not the right thing because everything is different. And on this volunteer report he comes to the Waffen-SS and experiences the wildest and the most cruel and the heaviest uses, because wherever it was the most cruel and most difficult in this World War II, the Waffen-SS was used. Because of an incredible fortune, he did not like thousands and thousands, like about 60 percent of his comrades, that he fell. And those who did not like were then shot immediately when they came to Russian captivity. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: What is it now?]] And those who survived came home to a few percent after a long prison of war and tried to rebuild their lives, and were certainly blatant – most of them. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – With very few exceptions! And then it comes: That means nothing but hatred and revenge beyond the grave. You say it too! You write it too! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It can't be! We cannot practice hatred and vengeance beyond the grave, for he whom I have spoken of died eleven years ago, his wife also now. His children live and pursue this discussion, which is now again here. Ladies and gentlemen, someday must be over. It can't be that you're still spitting on the graves of those who've participated enough and suffered enough that have soaked enough! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Who's doing this?]] [[Abg. Oil: Where did the man look like?]] My father died as a 62-year-old 35 years ago. My father was a case like that. His wife received a very low pension because he was not recognized for the retirement periods he had previously acquired as a traffic police officer – at that time he studied. He sowed, he had to build a life completely fresh – a woman, four children, a fifth was added to it in 1951. [[Abg. Oils: Everybody! Even those who did nothing for the war!]] She received a very low pension, and I must continue to pay for her – and I also very much like to do it. Why Leave You're not working on this time by historians? Why do we need to talk about it and discuss it now? [[Abg. Ollinger: That's done!]] Let the dead rest, they've kissed enough!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17866	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17887	Mr President. High house! The application before us deals with a social matter, i.e. the calculation of replacement times, which, as we have heard from the applicant, are to be restricted for those who are classified as criminal within the framework of the SS, the Waffen-SS or within the framework of organisations classified as criminal by the International Military Court. The Court of First Instance held that the Court of First Instance had failed to fulfil its obligations under the law of the Court of First Instance. I do not want to address the issue in general, because I believe that we will have a lot to discuss in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. The conflict with the time of the Nazi regime is an essential task of the Republic. And in recent years, the Republic has worked out a lot of things and done a lot of things that were necessary. I am thinking only of the refund payments, I am thinking of the recognition law, of the extension of victims' care, of the commemorative grants, of the grants to the “wrong women”, of the improvements in widow's pensions for war victims and the like. This proposal, which is available here, is actually unclear for me, because it should not be retroactive, but a future. I wonder, What persons from the circle of those who have committed such a crime are not yet in retirement? So, for the future, it cannot affect anyone, and what added value should a symbolic character have in a law? Therefore, we see no need for action on the part of the BZÖ to change something here.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17924	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e17945	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party will not give its consent to this request by the Greens. The reason for this is – and this has suggested Lutz Weinzingerreiters –: We reject any collective debt against the war participants! [[Abg. Oils: Collective debt? What does this have to do with collective debt?]] – Of course, this has to do with collective debt; I will explain it to you once! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We only recognise individual debt and therefore follow international legal standards. Old Federal Chancellor Dr. Kreisky once said: Learn history! – And you could actually write that to the Greens in the main book. Please note, Mr Ollinger: Many of those who had to serve under the flags of the Waffen-SS did not voluntarily go to the Waffen-SS, but have been moved in, especially from 1944 onwards. These were not those who went to the Austrian Legion before 1938. Konrad Adenauer, who is not suspected of being a sympathizer of the National Socialists, but who was persecuted on 30 July. August 1953 said that his son had not been moved into the Waffen-SS only by chance, and he then literally carried out: We need to distinguish between the SS and the Waffen-SS. The Waffen-SS had only the name together with the others, but by the way it was soldiers like everyone else. - Quote. [[Abg. Oellinger: That's not true!]] Similarly, the then chairman of the SPD, Dr. Kurt Schumacher, also expressed himself. I would like to bring you further witnesses for this, probably also for You wouldn't be suspicious even though I don't accept or assume that Adenauer is a suspicious witness. For example, the former head of the documentation archive of Austrian resistance, Wolfgang Neugebauer, said the following – and I quote again –: ==References====External links==* Official website On August 1, 1939, under the tactical command of the army, de facto can be regarded as a part of the military force. Himmler's competence is essentially limited to questions of administration, disciplinary power, promotion and world-wide training, as well as non-combating associations. The species of deadheads responsible for the concentration control of concentration camps must not be confused with the simultaneously established SS death head division, a field force unit of the Waffen-SS. In the Nuremberg process, the entire SS including the Waffen-SS was declared a criminal organisation. In practice, this claim does not mean the automatic condemnation of any SS member. - Quote. This quote comes from the magazine “Future. Journal of Politics, Economy and Culture", issue 23, December 1975. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: What the hell is this?]] This shows that there will be a great difference and not, just as in your request, herb and beet will be messed up. It is also clear that the antifascist post-war legislation, namely the NS law, has specifically aimed at this distinction, because the members of the Waffen-SS did not comply with the NS law. – It is therefore clear in all clarity, if true and false are always mixed here. You see, the Greens' request is again far beyond the so-called antifascist objective. We liberals say to you: Just keep going, the results of the elections will continue to be like last Sunday in Lower Austria! We would be pleased about this.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18017	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 555/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[18:58:20]] 8. Point First reading: Request by Mr Karl Oellinger, Members of Parliament concerning a Federal Act amending the Code on Victim Care (556/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18056	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. We're going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18084	Mr President. I am already curious about the debates of the liberals. I am curious whether they will be presented on this subject again with fundier-en-historical analyses, which unfortunately do not correspond to scientific work. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] But be it! I would like very briefly, because the matter is not really funny, to address the content of this request. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But you laughed right now!]] What we demand with this proposal for initiative is also – and that is, of course, about the 2008 year of commemoration or reflection – that those groups of persons covered by the Victim Care Act have been recognised by the Republic, including the corresponding tax exemption, which has not been changed since 1964, if I remember correctly, has not been increased for 43 years, in the commemorative year. In our view, this was simply a doubling of the amount – inflation adjustment, development et cetera. This, I think, is not too much required of a republic that has been very difficult for decades to deal with the victims, and which sometimes still confuses the victims with the perpetrators until today. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have had this debate several times in this House. This is clearly the case with those persons who have been recognized as victims of the National Socialism Act, where in recent years, thanks to God, there have also been some positive developments in the extension of these groups, but where the corresponding tax consideration has remained in this case at the state of 1964. That is, I think, a relatively simple desire. That is why I am looking forward to your debates.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18132	The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig, with a speaking time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18154	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! First of all, Mr Oellinger: I think the Republic of Austria is certainly not indifferent to the victims of National Socialism. If you look at the development of the victim welfare law and also the compensation payments made by the National Fund and now again the one-time payments of € 1,000, which were decided, you can certainly not talk about how you wrote this in the application that the Republic of Austria does not care about the victims of National Socialism. Much has been done since 1945, 1947, 1964 – new groups of victims have been recognised over and over again, and the history has been dealt with even more intensively. And I think you should just appreciate that from the greens. I really think you've done a lot. – Of course you can do more and more, no question. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On this request: In principle, we can discuss everything – we have also talked about it briefly. I think that in this proposal we should really take time to talk about it in committee, because a few inconsistencies – at least from my perception – are included in it. For me, for example, it is not quite clear whether the increases should be only for pensioners or for those people who have received one-time payments; one should also somehow adjust there. I think all these questions should we really discuss in depth in the Committee, and then we will see how we will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18199	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18220	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, to the request of the Greens to amend the Code on Victim Care: All current victim care benefits are adjusted like ASVG benefits. Secondly, and I would like to comment on the comments made by my colleague: If this is to be a symbolic recognition, the Council of Ministers' presentation is of 27 May. February 2008 the better way, especially not unique. [[Abg. Oillinger: Here you are for one-time amounts!]] Similar activities took place in 1975, 1985, 1988 and 2005. If I can only read briefly from the lecture: "With the present draft law, on the occasion of the 70th anniversary. Anniversary of the invasion of the troops of the National Socialist German Empire in Austria a unique grant for resistance fighters and victims of the political persecution and their survivors are created. Similar activities have taken place in the years – as already mentioned – “in 1975, 1985, 1988 and 2005.” I think this is a good approach and a good way to create recognition.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18255	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. She's done a speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18276	Madam President. High house! I would like to confirm what I said in my previous speech: that it was necessary, important and also right what we have done for the victims of the Nazi regime on the part of the Republic and constantly adapt it. Mr. Ridi Steibl has already said that the benefits are valorised: in the War Victims Act, in the War Arbitration Act, in the Victim Care Act, in the Military Supply Act. And we also stand a hundred percent on the many one-off grants that are always available; this too has happened in our sense. This request confuses me a little insofar as one-off payments and current payments are mixed here. Many are just one-time payments, and I wonder: If someone received a one-time payment 20 years ago, how should this be doubled accordingly? I simply have a question of understanding, which I hope will also be clarified in the Committee. And I think we'll see everything again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18307	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 556/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[19:06:13]] 9. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Act 1975) (586/A) President Dr Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek: We're on the 9th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, the applicant, Mr Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen, receives the floor. I'll give it to him with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18370	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the near future, this request to amend the Rules of Procedure Act, which Eva Glavischnig and I have tabled, is about liberalizing the transmission of these public meetings of the National Council in broadcasting and television, if you wish, – namely that these meetings can be transmitted here at any time, both in terms of records and in terms of direct broadcasts, by a broadcasting or television station. There has been a certain occasion – perhaps you can still remember –: So far, the ORF has requested that certain parts of a session be publicly transmitted. Then there was an agreement in the Presidency on speaking time, and the President then approved this transfer in her power. But then there has been one case where this agreement on speaking time has not been reached in the Presidency, which has led the President not to approve the transfer either. – In the matter correctly, only, I think, we cannot let it be used with it. What is “public ” today? – The public of a meeting is not just that the audiences in the gallery have the opportunity to follow the debate. Publicly speaking, not only do journalists have the opportunity to be here and observe the negotiations or discussions, but also that in the 21st century. At the end of the century, Mr. Col., Radio and Television and the Internet, but in particular radio and television, whether public or private, can be transmitted at any time without having to obtain an approval. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: (pointing to the empty gallery and the almost empty balcony) If they knew you were still talking, they would all be up!]] This should apply both to records and direct transfers of these debates. There are certain technical questions that need to be resolved, which I do not want to address here, and the relationship between ORF and private radios and private television stations. But the essential point is that debates here in the National Council, which are at all times public, can also be transmitted directly at any time, or records of it can be produced and sent, without prior approval by the President – whose rights, as they are currently regulated in § 14, will not, by the way, be circumcised. However, a sentence in section 47 of the Rules of Procedure should be added that such records and transfers are permitted at any time in public meetings. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18417	The next speaker is the clubman of SPÖ, Mr. Dr. Cap. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18438	I'll join him. I believe that this would be a relief, but it would also make it possible for the population to learn more about what we are discussing here. It would be best if you had your own television channel – we even discussed whether that could not be TW1 – where these broadcasts would be possible. This also has a fixed point for the viewer, where this can be seen. In other countries such a thing already exists. Then we don't need to discuss again every time in the presidency about applications/non-approach by the ORF and everything possible. – So that, I think, would be a chance to improve this. But on this occasion I would like to say something second: We will also make a self-employed request here in order to amend the Rules of Procedure, in order to ensure that it is also possible to transfer information and sound from committee of inquiry. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Grossruck and Mr Scheibner.]] Here again, every citizen can take a picture of how it works and how it works. [[Call the ÖVP: A quota racer!]] Then there is not the definition contest, what is going on there, but then everyone should look for himself. I am not saying that this must be a direct transfer, but I am just saying that this opportunity must exist that a recording in image and sound is possible. I am referring only to what your Klubobmann Schüssel has just proposed for the Committee on the Interior, where, although we only had to deal with business regulations a little bit with a very complicated regulation so that it is possible. We want Klubobmann's bowl to plan it again, to make it easier for him. It should not now take place via an artificial agenda item, but it should be possible to go the straight way, and the straight path is a slight change – simply delete three letters – and then we have the possibility that we can also record it in image and sound. Since you have a very open attitude to this – especially you, who always like to make interlocutory speeches – I take that up. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner]] [[Abg. Dr Mitterlehner: That really took me away now, Mr. Colleague!]] I think you like to be on TV. From the outside, you've already been thinking about the camera being able to run. We can make that easier. I think we can make a contribution to this change. So that would be a proposal. This would also mean a further change in the Rules of Procedure and would improve our conciliation work. It would certainly also be a contribution – to return to the former – if you really bring permanent recordings of the plenary session, that everyone will see how the participation is and how the discussions are going. And I think that this is a very legitimate proposal and would give Parliament much more respect and would thus increase identification with Parliament even more. I believe that we can only be everyone for that, and that is certainly in your interest. We therefore support this procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18509	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Karl with a two-minute voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18531	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Both Article 32 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act and § 47 of the Rules of Procedure require that the meetings of the National Council are public. The public of a meeting means that everyone is allowed to listen to the negotiations of the National Council in accordance with the available space. On the current occasion, and as it has also been referred to by my previous speaker, I would point out that a special scheme applies to committee of inquiry: According to § 4 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Examining Committees shall only be granted access to media representatives when consulting persons and experts; However, television and radio recordings and broadcasts as well as film and photo-images are expressly declared inadmissible. This provision is in accordance with § 22 of the Media Act, according to which television and radio recordings and broadcasts and film and photography are not permitted even at public court hearings. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's not a trial!]] What does that mean? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's not a trial!]] Well, please, according to the request for the establishment of this committee of inquiry, we should also consider the legal responsibility which, in any case, has amazed me very much, because we should in fact be careful, in the sense of the separation of power, that we should only examine political responsibility and not also the legal responsibility. But please, if you want to, you should also comply with certain rules of play. I would also like to point out, Mr Cap: We have put forward 15 points in the Rules of Procedure Committee to improve the Rules of Procedure for Investigation Committees. We were concerned with making this process more transparent, objective and objective. At the time, no one wanted to discuss these proposals with us except the BZÖ. Only colleague Scheibner was ready for discussion. I can also prove this by phone protocols. And today, as the only necessary change to the Rules of Procedure, do you suddenly think that we have to allow broadcasting and television? [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That's about the plenary!]] – So, I have to say that other changes to the Rules of Procedure are important to me, which ensure greater transparency, objectivity and objectivity. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Are you also opposed to the transfer of the plenary session?]] But you are obviously just about the media stage and not about objectivity, transparency and objectivity in the investigation committee. That's how you've exposed yourself once again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18627	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Dr. Graf. – He's not present right now. Mr Scheibner is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18670	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Karl, the colleague of the SPÖ, Mrs Grossmann, would like to have these telephone protocols; perhaps you can send them. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - No, I'm just transferring this because I have the privilege of being able to pass it on by microphone. And that would be quite interesting, wouldn't it? Ladies and gentlemen! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Abg. Dr. Cap: “Yes, but!”]] Yes! – I thought first of all, when I saw this request: What is the point of such a small part of the change in the Rules of Procedure, where we want to modernise and adapt the Rules of Procedure as a whole? [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Maybe it's going through at least!]] Well – right – I then immediately reminded myself that this was not the case with the Federal Government, because we had the Committee on the Rules of Procedure referred to by the honourable Member. To be honest, it was said at the second session that there was no need to change anything at all. That is why we cancelled this meeting. Shame! That is why it is unfortunately necessary to introduce such sub-areas as individual applications. I think this is positive, especially because we have just made this bad experience, and that was an effect in the end. You know it's about the EU Treaty and about the agenda. This is where we have tried to take the BZÖ into the drawing: Do you want a TV broadcast? But then you must agree to the EU Treaty! So it can't be that you depend on any goodwill when it comes to whether or not the population can participate in our debates. That is why I think that this change is positive. However, I must say, it cannot be that it is then up to some editorial staff in the ORF to decide which debates are being transferred. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that a statement by the Federal Chancellor or the defence speech by Mr Cap in this area will be passed, but a urgent question by my colleague. Van der Bellen not! What would escape the viewers from entertaining debates and – of course – meaningful debates! I therefore believe that if we open this up, so we say that it can be transferred in principle, then it should be so that the debates will all be passed on from the beginning to the end. This poses a certain danger in itself, as we know, but I believe that if we all get to grips, then this will not increase political irration. I would be a little more cautious in the case of committee of inquiry, because this is ultimately the question of the need for information. And as you know, it is often so that you cannot distinguish the witnesses and the information people from the accused or the already convicted, which is what their treatment by the questioner is about. You're gonna have to do this a little different. But we can certainly join this proposal, and I am very excited whether it will really be so that we can discuss it quickly in the committee and then decide by a broad majority – because the Social Democrats, if I have understood it correctly, have also signaled their approval here. I hope that there will be no deadline request for us to put it into practice.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18735	I would like to say once again to Mrs Magistrate. Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18758	Madam President. I just want to make something clear. I spoke earlier about the ‘Telephone Protocol’. That was, of course, a promise. I meant the tape copy of the meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of the 11th century. ==References== At this meeting, Mr Scheibner and I, once again, tried unsuccessfully to initiate a discussion on the proposals submitted to improve the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Examining Committees. But we have unfortunately remained unsuccessful with our attempt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18788	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 586/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[19:20:28]] 10. Point First reading: Request by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Assembly Law 1953, BGBl. No. 98/1953, amended (583/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18828	We're on the 10th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The debate is closed. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18855	Madam President. – I don't see any more ministers. – Ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of "prohibition of disguise": We have for some time seen developments where we must experience that various demonstrations, unfortunately God's also in Austria, are active in disguised demonstrators. There are increasingly conflicts in demonstrations where ethnic reasons often play a role. That's more of an observation. However, I expressly note that the Serbian community, which held the last major event at Heroesplatz – which took part in it of 10,000 citizens – has demonstrated peacefully, but 200 violent demonstrators have become conspicuous as a result of this event. But the mass of demonstrators was peaceful, peacefully demonstrated. It then condemned the Serbian community in Austria this small radical minority and clearly distanced itself from these violent agents, which must be noted positively. But we also have violent demonstrations in Austria, and they often come from the left corner. You have to address this clearly and openly: from the left corner! There's also an escalation of violence. And there is also a left-wing extremism problem in Austria. An example of this: In January of this year, there was a demonstration against the ball of the Vienna corporation ring in the Hofburg, in which violently maimed demonstrators – the left-wing Mob – marched through the streets of Vienna. They first damaged the Hofburg and subsequently moved through the streets of Vienna and were destroyed and destroyed. tig. You also attacked a police station. But, unfortunately, there has been no arrests of God. As I said, there were once again disguised demonstrators. I mean, we really have to work there. It also called on the Green Alternative Youth at the time for this demonstration, in which there were violent outpourings. To date, I have not heard a single word of distance from the Greens among the violent outpourings in the framework of this demonstration, which has also supported the Green Alternative Youth. Experience has shown that in the presence of disguised persons, violent outcries occur almost safely at demonstrations. This has shown the experience! We should therefore also respond accordingly. It can't be that one abuses the right to demonstrate and then disguises itself in order to become violently active as a result. I believe that we really need to strictly implement the ban on disguise, strictly – and if it is not possible to enforce that people who are disguised in a demonstration will remove their disguise, oppose this call, then we must think about whether it would be useful to disband such assemblies or demonstrations. Otherwise, it will not be possible to counter violence accordingly! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's a necessary reaction. We have this experience with violent demonstrators. I believe that it is therefore necessary to finally enforce the ban on mummification here and then to do so in order to prevent such situations in the future. Another point we are calling for is the use of the German language in demonstrations. It is clearly defined in Article 8 of the Austrian Federal Constitutional Act: "The German language is, without prejudice to the rights granted to the linguistic minorities by federal law, the state language of the Republic." We also need to ensure that, when we use the right of demonstration, we use the German language and do not operate in any other languages, where the authorities do not even understand what is given the best in terms of content. That's why I mean that you have a lot of things to do with the law of the congregation. Above all, one has to ensure that violence must not have place in the right of demonstration, in the freedom of demonstration, that one is really stopped to stop violence, because security and order on the streets – whether in Vienna or in other parts of Austria – is the right that the Austrian population knows behind it. And we should ensure this right to security and order. Those who are against it in principle would be self-evident in that they do not pursue meaning and content in order to ensure peaceful demonstrations. The ban on mediation is intended to ensure that violent left-wing extremists cannot exploit the freedom of demonstration and can result in destruction and violence, as unfortunately God has been repeatedly confirmed at many events. That is why everyone is called upon to support this. I mean, the one who does not support this has no interest in freedom of demonstration, has no interest in a peaceful rally, in a peaceful presentation of his ideas. And this is, please, a sacred good and our right, and we should do everything we can to ensure that this cannot be misused in our society. I call on all the Members to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18933	The next speaker is Mr Elmar Mayer. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e18958	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I'm already scared of a biterl when I first missed this request and read it: Texts and writings in German; all submitted by H. C. Strache. – Please, this is not only about restricting the freedom of assembly, but also about restricting the right of demonstration. [[Abg. Street: On the contrary! We have a state language, deputies!]] You can see it like that! Your words have already sounded different from the text you have written, Mr Strache, and that is why we want to look at it very carefully. But it is indeed that it is not only about prohibiting “Nazi go home!” records or such things, but also about actually caring about them... [[Abg. Street: We have a state language!]] Mr Strache, it is a question of ensuring that the request is properly interpreted, when it is honestly and well meant, and that will show the debate in the Committee very well. It may, as you are right, lead to a public rally in a language that is not understood by public authorities. For example, we know that in a language that is completely foreign to us, it can come to a people's renunciation. And there can be a massive call for violence and terror, and that this can be understood by our authorities and by ourselves and no one, and that it actually leads to an escalation in the future. We don't want that either! That's what I think no one's inside here. But it needs to be handled very sensitively. And here we are looking forward to your argumentation and the actual wording in committee. We will then decide whether we can approach this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19006	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19027	Madam President. High house! On the one hand, this request concerns the use of German in demonstrations and, on the other, the use of German language. In 2002, the ban on mummification was decided in § 9 of the Convention. At that time, the interpretation and handling of the Austrian police was given a certain margin. The fact is: We of the ÖVP confess to the right of demonstration. However, we also have the duty to lay down rules of play for the non-violent interpretation of disagreements. It has been shown, however, that disguise has a violent motive in the background. [[Abg. That's right!]] Therefore, a disguise ban serves the protection of the property and the physical integrity of the person concerned, but also of the demonstrators. [[Abg. May. Kogler: (a very dark sunglasses on) I am also disguised!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Would you like to ban English-speaking demonstrations?]] Therefore, the ÖVP is also in favour of § 9 para. 1 of the Law of Assembly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now for the use of the German language in demonstrations. – Here is the requirement to take a critical view of a commitment to the use of the German language during meetings. Imagine, it is a foreign guest to visit and it is protested in its language and the unhappiness is announced, for example with the sentence “Mister President, go home!” What are you doing? . So you see that this demand is very problematic. This needs to be discussed in detail.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19112	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19133	Ladies and gentlemen! The present proposal for initiative is a legistic masterpiece. We get so many things from the ministry, which is not perfect, but that an initiative proposal says that a law should be implemented, I find it very interesting in itself. [[Abg. It will not be done, Mr President.]] It's already done! It would have been sufficient if you had deleted paragraph 3 in this own-initiative proposal, you would have achieved the same objective. They write in that a law is to be implemented. I find that particularly interesting. [[Abg. Strache: Demonstrants who are disguised in Austria are admitted! You're probably disguised!]] - No, I'm unmistakably in front of you, you don't need to be afraid of me, Mr. Strache. [[Abg. Strache: Not here, but elsewhere!]] Let's go to the content. You, Mr Strache, also assume false conditions if you say that disguise is always the preliminary step to escalation. Examples in Germany show that there is sometimes an escalation in the enforcement of the disguise ban. Don't forget that! Now, according to paragraph 3, there is a margin of discretion which enables the police to assess the situation and decide whether a disguise ban is enforced or not. – In any case, you want to enforce it from the FPÖ. They will thereby escalize demonstrations that would otherwise not escalate. Second point: Of course, mutilation does not always serve just as you think the preparation of violence. There are quite interesting decisions in Germany, where there is a strict disguise ban. And there it says that quite different motives are behind the disguise, for example the protection against anti-antifa. That's what a court of law says: It will not be contrary to the prohibition of disguise, it is not the criminality of disguise, because the defendant has merely made himself unknowable for self-protection against anti-antifa. [[Abg. They're both fascists! Whether fascist or antifascist, they're both fascists!]] To say what the anti-antifa is – not everyone knows –: The anti-antifa are the blocking forces of the right, the explorations where the anti-fascists demonstrate, and then place them on lists, publish addresses, publish photos and track them. I mean, it's legitimate to protect yourself from such groups. That is what the Court of Justice has found in Germany. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: The political dissidents are being criminalized!]] Last point: foreign language phobia. – It is not comprehensible to me German is state language, yes, but freedom of expression is on the other hand. [[Abg. Strache: German is a state language! That should have been going through to you too!]] They want to intervene in fundamental rights, which is obviously the spirit of the FPÖ. Fear yourself a little less, there is not so much reason to fear! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19242	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hauser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19264	Madam President. High house! The last word donation was again significant. But you, Mr Mayer, have the right approach: You have said in your speech that you will look at our argumentation and that you too are in favour of game rules, that you always want to know where violence and terror are called, of course. I'm allowed to tell you what's happening on the 1st day as the country keeper of the Freedom Party. ==References====External links== That was documented by the media back then. It's really incredible, which force then drew 1,500 demonstrators through Innsbruck and scandalized them: Death and hatred of the FPÖ! 1,500 demonstrators! [[Call the Greens:In German! Or?]] [[Abg. Strache: However, these have not been persecuted by law!]] And what demonstrators? – Left demonstrators, green demonstrators. And the socialist youth, the VSstÖ and the Jusos were there. It's documented! And you of the Greens are always the ones who come to the front of the speaker's desk and... Mr. Van der Bellen, you shake the head. [[Calls to the Greens.]] But all of this is documented: Your organizations, your adversaries, were in this hatred against the Freedom Party with the call: Death and hatred of the FPÖ! with you. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: No!]] We demand that such events be resolved. [[New calls to the Greens.]] Of course, such events must be resolved! It may not be that the police are accompanying such an event and simply let the participants in this, the demonstrators who are holding such hatred against a party. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a state party officer, I brought an ad to the prosecutor's office against unknown perpetrators because of course I wanted these perpetrators to be investigated. By the way, there is a comprehensive photo documentation about this, and we wanted a preliminary investigation against unknown perpetrators and their investigation and the conduct of criminal proceedings. Do you know what I've gotten from the prosecutor's office to answer? . The notice that this ad has been filed. I can quote from this: The Procuratorate informs that the ad is of the 17th century. It was examined against unknown perpetrators in May 2007 and did not find sufficient reasons to bring an action against the demonstrators. - Quote. That's what I got to answer! And then I raised a parliamentary question with this matter to the Minister for Justice. That's where I got... [[New calls to the Greens.]] Please consider what would happen if we as a Freedom Party – I don't dare to express it at all – would pull through Innsbruck and scan: Death and hatred whoever! That's not in question anyway. But consider what you would do then, Dr. Van der Bellen, what would happen at the next parliamentary session if any professing liberties were present at this event! That would be you – excuse me! – have handcuffs removed from the event – right now. What did I get as a questioner of this matter concerning Mrs Minister? – The whole is presented as a purely political statement, which should not be regarded as a call for the murder of members of the above political party, because this request was not sufficiently individualised. That means you should have said: Death and hatred to Gerald Hauser! Then you could have intervened. But you can go through Tyrol or through Innsbruck and scan: Death and hatred of the Freedom Party, without the police entering. I asked in this question why the police have not taken action by themselves, and I have received the answer that the security authorities only have to enter into delay in the event of danger. There seems to have been no danger of delay here. Ladies and gentlemen, if you take this case, which is sufficiently documented, which is medially documented, then understand You are our initiative that we want to have a change to the Convention, because that from our point of view is illegal. Such events and meetings are simply not allowed to take place any more.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19349	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19370	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We can indeed follow the intentions of this request, but I agree with the colleague of the Social Democratic Party that we still need to talk about some points, because I believe that not even the applicants want this request to go through as it is formulated. Inconsistency has already been mentioned by the colleague of the ÖVP that it is likely that the language will have to be formulated differently. I would never say at a demonstration: Ami, go home!, but if that already means that any assembly has to be dissolved against a state visit or something else, then I have to say: This is probably not within the meaning of the applicants. Or: Of course, it is possible to hold meetings in the language of a recognised minority – and this is not the case in this request. Whether this is a police officer who has no discretion then can really judge at the assembly, it is Serbian now, what he is talking about, or is the Croatian – Croatian – would not be allowed to Serbian – I dare to doubt that. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Serbian!]] I don't think there's any Serbian anymore. In addition, it is said here – again without discretion – that a congregation must be dissolved if acts of illegality occur in the congregation. – I can guarantee you that there will be no more FPÖ gathering, because you can be sure that a hundred percent of any agitators will be present at the assembly and that there will be any violence. And then this congregation is to be forbidden and dissolved. So this too, I believe, is not in the interest of the applicants. There will have to be some rewording, but in principle I think the intention is quite positive, because if someone wants to perceive and demonstrate his right, he can also stand for it with his face and with his identity. If he can't, he'll have reasons that we can't support. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The second point concerning violence: I also do not see this, no matter which political group holds a meeting – that does not even have to be a political one, but one that represents any other social policy ideas – that other groups violently suppress freedom of expression and restrict freedom of assembly and, in fact, nothing is done about it. As has been said, there will be a lot to consider; other formulations. Perhaps the executives will be given a certain degree of discretion. The point with the language will also have to be formulated differently. I am already very excited whether we can really bring about a viable solution in the Committee. It would be necessary because it would be a signal that we support congregation law, but the abuse of this right by violent persons or organizations – no matter what country they come from, from which nationality they are, from which corner they come, whether from right or from left. This is a restriction of the right by abuse, and we should find a solution there.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19416	The next speaker is Mr Neubauer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19437	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr Mag. Steinhauser, if you are talking about freedom of expression, the right of assembly and freedom, we can agree that we have a common ground. But it ends immediately where the Greens restrict precisely these rights if it does not fit into their own ideology. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] An example: In Linz an event was duly notified, and the Greens oppose this right to freedom of assembly and place the exclusion of all participants in the room. Once again, at a meeting that has been properly reported! This is what the Greens are doing only because they are democrats who are then muttered in such a way that gastronomy, clubhouse, monastery yard in Linz are all boycotted and put on as anti-democrates. This goes so far that you support the fact that here a tower, housed in with explosives, is to be split, and that on the Greens' homepage it is still announced to support this demo. [[the speaker shows an image]] [[Abg. Strache: This shows the potential for violence on this side!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am really glad that Mr. Fichtenbauer was elected chairman of the Committee of Inquiry – and not you from the Greens. I can really tell you that. I'm really happy and grateful now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What you've delivered here today was clear: They played themselves as a lawyer for the Anarcho scene and for the disguise. I can tell you how this happened in Linz. In Linz, this happened in such a way that a demonstration was registered at Linz's main square by Turkish residents in Austria and was also approved. This is escalated there because the Kurds have announced an area demonstration in the short term. And then I said to a cop: Don't you think there are anti-Austrian slogans coming down from the stage? Because someone who speaks Turkish and German has taught me this way. The cop then answered me: Yeah, yeah, that's gonna be all right, just, we can't step in because I don't know what he's saying up there! And so is our request to understand: We want to give the executive – Mr Mayer von der SPÖ, you have also recognized this correctly and have seen it so – an appropriate means in which it can also take action at such events. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We imagine that the organiser will have to have the responsibility to provide a corresponding interpreter for the language in question in the future. This must be very easy to do, and thus it is also ensured that appropriate intervention of the executive in such cases is possible. I therefore request the adoption of our request and of good discussions in committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19498	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I give the motion 583/A to the Committee on Internal Affairs. [[19:46:19]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Brigid Weinzinger, colleagues and colleagues on a law with which the Criminal Code BGBl. No. 60/1974, as last amended by BGBl. I No. 93/2007, amended (565/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19537	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Weinzinger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19565	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, imagine you're going to the doctor because you need a drug urgently, and a group of radical school-medicine opponents are blocking you the way and saying: No, you can only put on a wrap if you have a flu, or whatever! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That never happens!]] Would you not rightfully feel disturbed in your fundamental rights, in your freedom of movement and in your free decision? You'd be quite upset. [[Abg. Murauer: This has not yet been the case!]] You're saying that hasn't been the case yet. This is absolutely not true at one point – you men may not know that so well – at the moment when women in Austria, in Vienna and in other capitals, go to an abortion clinic to have a abortion in the legal period, is exactly the everyday scenario: There are radical abortion opponents who try to prevent them from entering the clinic, agitate them, and put them under psychological pressure. There were events where women were "transmitted" to other rooms and bombarded there with propaganda. So there are conditions here that ridicule any description, and that in a situation that is taxing enough for women – and, by the way, it is also straining enough for the staff working in these clinics. How do employees of a clinic get to work through a Phalanx on radical agitators every day? Once in a while, apart from the fact that the chances of healing are absolutely unreasonable in such a medical procedure and the working conditions for the staff. We have therefore drawn up a proposal for a law which I consider to be relatively practical and, hopefully, consistent and based on the French example. In France, there was the same problem with very radical opponents right in front of clinics. In France, a law was passed which had immediate effect and what we also propose, namely that it should be punished who exercises an inappropriate moral, psychological or physical pressure on a woman who wants to have an abortion in the legal period. We have also defined relatively clearly the ‘unfit pressure’, namely: If the woman concerned is persistently and strongly opposed to her will, try to deny her access, or try to force her objects against her will. So I believe that this has been made relatively practical, and we are not going into any conflict with the freedom of assembly that is still given. Of course, demonstrations are still permitted. But it is not up to people to refuse access to a clinic, to a medical practice. And when these people are women, they only deserve our solidarity.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19614	Next speaker: Mrs Stadlbauer. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19636	Madam President. High house! I am very grateful to the Greens for this request, but he is again showing a problem that the SPÖ and also I personally are really concerned about. It is about this psychoterrorism, which is being practiced before clinics where women come to an abortion. I think we have to take care of this. It is, however, the question of how we regulate this, because there are various possibilities. One possibility would be what Mr Weinzinger just said to anchor that in criminal law – that is the French model. By the way, for information to those present here: What I like very much about this model is how it came about. At that time, the entire civil society in France, including the Catholic Church, has gathered, because it has said, it cannot be that there is a struggle on the street at the expense of those affected. This law was then made with the Catholic Church. But I believe that in Austria we also have other possibilities, such as that we anchor this in the Security Police Act. This would go much faster; then the women would not have to make an advertisement, so you wouldn't have to wait for judgments. That's what we wanted at the novelle of the security police law. Unfortunately, the ÖVP has not yet gone there. I say “not yet” because we At least a political compromise has been reached and there will now be a number of political measures – up to a final revision of the Security Police Act. We take this request – my colleague Heinisch-Hosek and I – for the occasion of a parliamentary request to the Minister of the Interior, as we are now looking forward to this political agreement that we have reached. In short: I think it is important and it is regulated, but we must find an Austrian way. I am also very confident that we will find it together, and I am really happy about this initiative and that we will be able to discuss it again in the committees soon. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19678	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19699	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing to do in order to resolve all the doubts: Of course, we are also in favour of a violation of freedom of expression, of the right of demonstration, especially in this sensitive area; no question at all. Only: Acting with the culprit of criminal law when people express their opinion, we consider it to be totally inappropriate and completely overburdened. Mrs Weinzinger, it also shows, of course, the very dubious access you have to this subject. They have no problem at all when demonstrators disguise themselves when radical animal protectionists commit property damage. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] All of this is freedom of expression for you. If people join forces when they deny workers access to their businesses when radical nature protectors block plants, block the progress of construction work, then that's all right for you, that's all freedom of expression. But if others become active in protecting the unborn life, even here express their opinion quite openly, put it clearly on the table then you want to lock it up for six months. [[Abg. Sburny: threatened women, threatened women, you'll find that quite normal!]] We think that this access is completely wrong. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I believe that what women need in this certainly very, very difficult situation is support, is help, is education, but not the cue of criminal law.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19749	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19770	Madam President. High house! Radicality must be rejected, completely right. If it goes so far that women are being oppressed, are threatened, of course a certain point has been exceeded, which cannot be allowed. But if we are already talking about assaults, it is also important to speak of the assaults by the hospital staff, by members of the hospital security service, who are going to start on peaceful demonstrators. Mrs Weinzinger, this too is a problem we must see; we could also discuss that. But that's just an introduction. The point to be made is: They speak of inappropriate pressure, be it moral, psychological, or physical. And that's where it cracks. It seems to you that you want a restriction on the right of speech and a restriction on freedom of expression. As Mr Neubauer mentioned earlier: As long as it fits your mind, as long as your most corrupt political opinions are represented, freedom of expression is in order. But your opinion will hardly be expressed, even freedom of expression is in danger, and then it will be restricted by you. And we will certainly not agree to that! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One more thing, Mrs Weinzinger: There are also many people who do not join the prescribed opinion. And it's obviously ordered that abortion is good and that all those who are against abortion are bad people. And that is not right, there are hundreds of thousands of people who rightly point to the problems we have through abortion. And when we're talking about criminal law, something to remember: § 96 StGB still states that abortion is a criminal offence. I quote: “If the pregnant person cancels their pregnancy with the consent of the pregnant persons, he shall be punished for up to one year, he shall commit the act of punishing with imprisonment for up to three years.” Only the § 97 StGB with the time limit solution does this § 96 out of force. What's also interesting: No doctor is required to discontinue pregnancy. That's always indicated by you, as if it were all good, what's happening. You want to go in a direction with your requests, which is very worrying. They propagate a culture of death. [[He-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] You want abortion to be a fundamental right, and you're prophesying that abortion is a good thing. They're a radical abortion advocate. That's behind your minds, and that's also to say and to light up, because this way is certainly wrong. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I say that there is not only a right to abortion if there are indications, but there is also a right to life, and we must put that in the foreground. There is a right to life according to § 22 ABGB, and that begins with the witness, which begins much earlier than three months, four months, five months after the witness. Mrs. Colleague, you should take your green glasses and watch a movie: ‘The mute scream’. Look at what happens when abortions are performed after the first, after the second, after the third month! That's murder – and nothing else! Something very interesting can also be mentioned in this context: There are no statistics on abortions in Austria, and it would be urgent to consider preparing such statistics once. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: You would like that!]] I think we can gain a lot of knowledge from this. You too could learn a lot from it. The fact is that in Germany there are already a lot of statistics that really show us the drama. If these life rights advocates appear and say that abortion is one of the biggest problems in Central Europe and Europe at all, then they are right, because since World War II, Mrs. Wein-Singer, we have had to complain more of the dead by abortion than by the entire war operations of World War II. That too is fact. In the last 30 years, Germany has recorded 4 million murders, as life rights advocates say. This is a disaster for our culture. And this is exactly what it is to be done with statistics. If these life rights advocates say that the most dangerous place in Austria is the uterus, they are unfortunately also right, because the survival rate in a uterus is 50 percent. This is also a very dramatic development that we need to see. [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: This is really last-class!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Weinzinger, if you really want to think about this topic, then think about how we can promote families, how we can promote young women, how we can bring about a awareness-building that stands for life – and not against life. And I can well imagine a family tax system that ÖVP has already considered. I can well imagine a change in the pension system which at least doubles the value of child rearing. And I can also imagine that we are introducing a mother's content to create a genuine freedom of choice. These would be positive proposals. Think about how we can preserve life, how we can promote life – but not how we destroy life!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19859	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19881	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me return to the content of this request by Mr Weinzinger and Mr Steinhauser at the conclusion of this item on the agenda. Let me say first of all that I am giving Mr Donnerbauer of the ÖVP a right with his assessment of this situation, and I can also sign it. But I would like to go into some detail and work out certain points precisely, since for us one thing was already striking: With this application, the Greens want to add an additional § 105a to the Criminal Code, in addition to § 105: Necessity, in addition to the already existing § 107a: Persistent Persecution, Stalking. That is to say, you intend to punish someone with up to six months of age who exerts inappropriate moral, mental or physical pressure on abortionist women or on personnel of such institutions. This inappropriate pressure is defined as “persistent and intense response. ” Mrs Weinzinger, you said that this is not at all contrary to the freedom of assembly. – I say, however, that can be contrary to the freedom of assembly, because when a demonstration takes place in front of such an institution, it will be possible to exert a corresponding moral and psychological pressure on a person in the course of an appropriate act of office. That's quite clear. The Next is: tried refusal of entry, attempts to hand over items against the will of a person. – Yes, this is clearly a necessity. We have already regulated these in the Criminal Code. That means that this additional section is, if you cross this request, of course, an interesting thought, but really not necessary. I have already pointed out the non-existent problem of criminality, since it is precisely the criminal necessity and persistent persecution, stalking, that are given. In addition to this constitutional problem with freedom of assembly, there is also a problem of conflict due to freedom of expression and religious freedom. This brings me back to Mr Donnerbauer's statement, which meant that, in one case, the Greens always stand for freedom of demonstration, for freedom of assembly, but on the other hand, as exactly in this request to be dealt with, do not like to let them take place at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19926	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with request 565/A to the Committee on Justice. The agenda is exhausted. [[20:02:07]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-03-11-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00051_d7e19959	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 622/A to 638/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 3816/J to 3845/J were also raised. Finally, a question by Mrs Maria Rauch-Kallat, ladies and gentlemen, has been put to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 8.02 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
