ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e1092	Ladies and gentlemen, I will open the meeting. As prevented, Mr Magistrate is reported. Wilhelm Molterer. I announce that the Financial Committee has ended its meeting. The agenda for this meeting of the National Council has already been delivered to the clubs. [[16:02:32]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e1129	I refer to the communication distributed at the meeting room in accordance with Article 23(4) of the Rules of Procedure. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e1330	In order to be able to negotiate items 1 to 4 of the agenda, it is necessary, in accordance with paragraph 44(2) of the Rules of Procedure, to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of committee reports. Points 1 to 4 are the reports of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (5 d.a._Other Organiser Economic recovery law (6 d.a.), the government proposal (3 d.e.c._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Insurance Supervision Act (7 d.b.), Application 2/A: Federal Law, with which the Federal Finance Act 2008 and the Club Finance Act 1985 is amended (8 d.e.c.) and the government template (2 d.e.c.): 2. Taxation Amendment Act 2008 (9 d.a.). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the removal from the time-limit to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e1363	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 4 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e1385	The meeting will be broadcast live by ORF from now on until 5 p.m., followed by a further transfer to TW1. The following consensus was reached in respect of the Rules of Procedure for this meeting: The debate time per group is 30 minutes. For the time of broadcasting to ORF, the following Rules of Procedure shall be adopted: First speaker/first speaker per group with 8 minutes each and two members of the government with 8 minutes each. During the whole debate, after the Group's strength, we are talking about it. Actual corrections will only be made after the television broadcast has ended, i.e. after 5 p.m. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, agreeing to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[16:04:46]] 1. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (5 d.a._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing the Federal Law on the Financing of Tasks of the Austrian Economic Service Society with Limited Liability and the Federal Law on the Refinancing of Activities of the Austrian Economic Service Society with Limited Liability and amending the Austrian Economic Service Act, the Guarantee Act 1977, the SME Funding Act, the Income Tax Act 1988 and the Federal Act approving the justification of further charges by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology (Economic Recovery Act 2008 – KBG 2008) (6 d.B.) 2. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (3D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Insurance Supervision Act (7 d.a.) 3rd. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 2/A by Mr Otto Pendl, Mr Fritz Neugebauer, Mr Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, Josef Bucher, Dieter Brosz, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Finance Act 2008 and the Club Finance Act 1985 (8 d.b.) 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (2D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act, which amends the Income Tax Act 1988, the VAT Act 1994, the Health and Social Aid Act and the Customs-Law Enforcement Act – 2. Taxation Change Act 2008 (2nd Chamber) Delegated 2008) (9 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e1476	We now come to points 1 to 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first is Mr Krainer's speech with an 8-minute speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e1506	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! After all of us took a first step together last week to deal with the confidence, liquidity, banking, economic, recession crisis – no matter how it may be called – we are taking a second step today. It is a pity that, although we have all taken the first step together, after the current committee meeting it looks as if two political groups would no longer take the second step. This is particularly unfortunate in that the second step will not be the last one, since we have to take a whole series of steps and this is not a one- or two-way action in which policy is active, but rather that policy can focus on the fact that it has many weeks and months to deal with this issue and that there will not only be a single economic package, but, as in fact already announced, that there will have to be a whole series of economic packages or a whole series of packages that policy will have to be answered in response to the situation before the economy, before which the banks, before which we as citizens, as workers, will have to stand, et cetera. Last week, we took the first step together in the banking package, which, I believe, was very reasonable, we first clarified the framework conditions at European level, i.e., how all the national states can act at European level, and developed a type of building box from which every national government, every national Parliament for its own economy, for its own banks, for its own workers, and for its own workers, etc., finds out what is most important for them in their specific situation. It was also very crucial that most of the European governments have at the same time, partly even at the same time, announced what steps it will take to address the crisis of confidence in order to address the liquidity crisis in order to address the banking crisis. fight. This was very important for success, and this will be very important for it in the future. The second step we are taking here today is that we are in fact ensuring the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. Similarly, as there is a liquidity crisis between banks, there is also a problem for small and medium-sized enterprises regarding their financing, and the financing package that we decide today offers similar instruments, namely that we actually convert the AWS into a bank and equip them with liabilities, with guarantees, with credit opportunities and that there are funds from EIP from ERP, from AWS and a few new instruments. The objective of all this is that, as a policy, we should support the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises that want to invest, the investment programmes, in which there are now some difficulties in implementing these investments, because they are difficult to finance, by making these financings and so on. This is in principle good, but it will be necessary to take a third, fourth and fifth step after this second step. This will be very important, and the debate in the Committee has also shown that this cannot be the last step, but that this is in fact the beginning of what policy must give an answer to the economic situation. And here you have to ask yourself the following question: What can politics do, what can a state do in such a case at all? – When it comes to economic issues, it has three main options: First: He himself invests by building streets, hospitals, schools and cetera. That is, he invests in the civil engineering and construction, which means he himself provides demand. The second thing the state can do is that it helps private individuals to invest themselves. In this direction, we are part of the process today, and we have also discussed in the Committee whether there are other models – for example, investment allowances – by which we can stimulate additional investments. And the third thing the state can do – precisely because of the specific situation of the Austrian economy – is to boost domestic consumption. What does that mean? – If people have little money in the wallet, they can also spend little! This means nothing but that we have to make sure through our tax and transfer policy that there is more money for the masses so that more money can also be spent. It's relatively simple. This is, however, an essential step that is still missing, which must come and which we will pay particular attention to as a social democracy. Another important point, as I mean, is: Just as important as the European level was in the area of banks, the European level is equally important in the area of economic development as well as in the coordination of national economies. When you talk to economists, to economics, they will tell you the following: If Austria is making a package to stimulate domestic demand to invest in businesses and also to invest in the state, for example, it has effect 1 if, on the other hand, there is a Europe-wide correlated system in which all national states, at the same time, have designed an economy tailored to their economies but with similar priorities – already different, but with similar priorities – decide and implement the economic package, then the Austrian has the factor immediately 3. That is, if we coordinate, if we meet together with the other European states in this regard, in which direction we are going, and if we take joint and coordinated action, then we can actually be three times as effective as if we did it alone – and I say equally to our group: If it is not possible to reach an agreement on the way in which the bank package has been successful, then we will be a social democracy in order to ensure that, even if there is no coordination, we assume our responsibility as politicians and, in any case, we will stand up for it on issues of mass purchasing power, public investment incentives for private and for the state. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e1589	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. His speaking time is also 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e1610	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What we are currently experiencing in the field of financial markets and, in addition, in the field of real economy is not comparable to what we have experienced up to now. Let's look at the numbers that are being brought to the meeting! The International Monetary Fund estimates the total damage to the financial crisis at €1 400 billion. If we compare this with what the people in Austria produce as a gross domestic product, namely € 270 billion, this financial crisis, which is currently under way, has destroyed within a few months what is being achieved in Austria in five years. There, the drama of development, and that is what the experts say, cannot stop in the financial crisis, but it is expected that the effects will actually be exceeded on the real economy. In many areas of the real economy, there are already the first signs as to the order books, as far as the issue of airlines such as the AUA is concerned, as regards the question of job development and the first signs of “threat” on the labour market: All of this is going in the direction that the financial market crisis will also be flooded into the real economy. That is why it is time and necessary for economic policy reason and political reliability to have absolute priority as parameters. The Finance Minister of Austria and the Finance Ministers of the European Union, the Eurozone, together with the central banks, have taken the right steps with the ECB, and here in the High House, too, we have given the right answer together to organise the protection for the banks, but not for the banks alone, but above all for the security of the savings of our savers. What has proved to be true in the financial crisis as rarely as before, how the European Union as a whole can operate crisis management. It has once again proved – the eurozone and the Union as a whole, and it has probably also convinced the last doubters – that this Union is capable of functioning, that we in Europe can only face such a great challenge, which has been created globally and has been flooded over in Europe, with the participation of Austria. We have used the opportunities in Europe very well in the past – this is the transfer to what we are debating here today and, as I hope, we also decide, that as Austrians we have made excellent use of our opportunities in the European Economic Area: We have full employment with 3.9%, a high standard of living as in a few other countries worldwide, and we have the fourth highest gross domestic product per capita in the European Union. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How long?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How long?- Oh, my God!]] – We have done excellent work in Austria and with a strong Austria in Europe! This is a good starting point for combating what is happening to us in the real economy. It is our duty not to rest on these laurels, but to act in fact, and with this economic recovery package, with these small and medium-sized businesses, we are now taking a first important step forward to consistently combat and strengthen the excess of the financial crisis to the real economy, to these hard times. I am also very happy and grateful to Minister Bartenstein, who has prepared these small and medium-sized enterprises as Minister for Economic Affairs conceptually, that we have succeeded in putting Austria's small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular, at the centre of the solution and the answers. It is enormously important that we fall short of those small and medium-sized enterprises that employ 64 percent of Austrian employees in their businesses, who alone train 90,000 out of 130,000 apprentices in their businesses, in order to break through this vicious circle of financial crisis – economic crisis – unemployment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is the task that we have, which is why we are today, together or by a large majority, setting up a package that breaks through precisely this vicious circle and gives the right answers. We increase the volume of interest-effective investment loans by € 200 million per year. In particular, companies are facing the challenge that, because of the financial crisis, access to capital to invest is no longer possible to the extent possible. That is why this statement – an increase of €200 million per year for interest-based loans – is a very important point. Second point – completely new and important for the capitalisation of our companies – is the establishment of an 80 million € medium-sized fund to strengthen the equity base and thus also to provide a future perspective for companies. The third point is a small credit programme for the one-person companies and for the micro-enterprises in Austria, which have also become incredibly important in this gearbox of medium-sized and small enterprises. We should also like to see them under the arms with this small credit programme. Austria's economy is beyond that, and we know this, extremely export-oriented and therefore extremely export-dependent. That is why we will send a clear signal to the Internationalisation Plan at €25 million, so that we can continue to be competitive on export markets – at least 60 percent of our gross domestic product is generated by the export industry – and also in internationalization, in export, and can provide gas together. In addition, this small-scale billion will have an impact on other topics, including the construction savers, by e.g. extending the construction savings volume and increasing the premium-favoured construction savings from € 1,000 to €1,200 and thus setting an important signal. In addition, it is important to ensure that in government negotiations, of whomever, the issue of research and development, education and the issue of environmentally relevant investments are discussed and decided to set the next accents that will be necessary in the next few months. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This milliards of small and medium-sized enterprises, which we will hopefully decide here in the House today, are financially acceptable, it is necessary, it is future-oriented and it will have a growth effect of 1 percent of the gross domestic product – a first essential step in the right direction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] Of course, we will also be here, and I am convinced that when the economic forecasts come, we will still have to talk about how we will provide flanking and guidance protection in the future in the months and years to come. Finally, allow me to say a word about what is often in all mouths, namely: Nationalization versus social market economy – who has won and who has lost? I think it's time to think about it. It is time not to condemn the eco-social market economy and to call it back to nationalization, but what we have as strength in small and medium-sized enterprises, now to put the financial economy, the real economy, at the heart of the interest, in the way we want it: as a decent merchant, as it was traditional and as it is necessary and important for the future accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, I hope that this package will be as broad as possible. It is necessary, it is essential and an essential step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e1696	The next one is Klubobmann Strache. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e1717	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the banks of Members. The current economic package – which has to be noted very clearly already – is not really an economic package. It doesn't deserve that name in the minimum. That's more than disappointing. In recent years, there have been many debates, in which we have rightly noted what is needed of important measures. Especially in a phase of the high economy, it would have been necessary to set sustainable accents. This has been missed and has also allowed a lot of time to pass. And not even today, where the hat is burning, one is willing to ensure that sustainable measures are taken accordingly. It might be a package that's available today! That's not an economic package, it's an economic package. It must be noted that there may be some inconsistency or at least one has not yet recognized the seriousness of the situation. This is really a very grotesque economic package that we need to deal with today in this debate. Last week, we decided unanimously on a bank package – we recognised the seriousness of the situation – that is, to guarantee 100 billion euros of guarantees – and we hope that those parts made available for the credit flow of fresh capital will not be used; this will still be seen to what extent that will be the case, or not – but today, a week later, we want to give the impression that the economy could be boosted by 1 billion euros. I mean, you have to have the right picture of this economic package. With 1 billion € you won't be able to achieve that. This will not create the economic upturn that is going to be made here today. It will not be possible to increase purchasing power to the appropriate extent. There's going to be valuable time lost again. We have to mention an international financial crisis and setbacks, where we already have to question the system. Neoliberalism has failed in the way we find it to be a system today. You have to recognize that! There's a need to think about how we can ensure a more just system. It is not about nationalization, Mr Klubobmann Pröll, but about fair rules! The economy, says neoliberalism, which we have had to experience in recent years, has taken over the rule of politics. That is to a certain degree. It is important to restore the primacy of policy before the economy. Today we have the impression that the economy determines politics, and not the other way round. That's where we're called. We are required to ensure the right framework and rules, and we must not just think and let ourselves be driven in the area of global financial interests. We have a stronger focus on our public interests. We have to support our economy in our state territory and contribute to a flourishing economy again! We have to ensure the greatest possible prosperity for our Austrian citizens and citizens in the country. We are now experiencing a development that we have not influenced, which does not come from us. We have played part in this game, which is why it meets us too. We've been playing in this globalization craze that broke out. You should say that openly, too. And now we are experiencing a downturn in the economy. There is even a fear that we will move towards recession and that this will be reflected in the labour market. That is why we want to counter it. We experience that our neighboring country, the Federal Republic of Germany, is one of the export nations, particularly hit and therefore the overall economic engine in Europe is stuttering. We had to recognize that, in view of the non-relief of our own citizens, internal demand in Austria has, unfortunately, been heavily affected by high inflation and exorbitant rise in energy and food prices in recent years, and we have not been able to counter it here. Many things were also homemade in the field of inflation, as experts confirm today. This requires a comprehensive economic package. We're missing this today! We need an economic package that we have been saying for years, it does not require 1 billion euros, but if so, then we should really think about 4 to 6,5 billion euros. This would be necessary in order to ensure, with a sustainable growth and discharge package, that purchasing power is increased again, which is worse in Austria today than 15 years ago. One should strengthen the middle class, ensure a reduction in additional wage costs especially for SMEs, and especially in the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises, namely SMEs, which are increasingly under the wheels – we have had to experience in recent years that especially SMEs and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are getting more and more under pressure – Basel II – not all parts of Basel II, but parts of Basel II – do not replace them. You have to think about better and easier lending. We note that over the last few years the problems have always been properly analysed, but the willingness in this House has not been there to counter them properly, in-depthly and sustainably. This must also be criticized and criticized for this economic package, which is a ‘package’. We certainly do not need additional foreign unemployed or cheap workers from the East in the crisis that is coming upon us, but answers for hundreds of thousands of Austrians affected! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have only heard about 14 days ago that the AMS Board of Directors, Mr. Johannes Kopf, also predicted that the figure for the coming year should be 15 000 to 20 000 unemployed. The alarm bells must not only ring at the AMS, but also at the Federal Government still in office! 50 000 trainees who do not even appear in unemployment statistics are not yet mentioned. We therefore need a sustainable package. Coming to the end: Valorization of child care allowance by 15 percent has not been done. Valorisation of the family allowance by 15 percent has not taken place. There would have to be the following: Baghtell taxes are abolished! Unfortunately, the reduction in VAT on basic food has not found a majority. [[Call to the ÖVP: Thank God!]] That would have been a reasonable way. A reduction in mineral oil tax would cause €440 million in costs. The care allowance should be increased by 20 percent, not by 5 percent, as done. The increase in pension in the area of inflation adjustment should be legally guaranteed, as should a sustainable wage tax reduction with a family tax division. This package would amount to a little more than €6 billion, but would relieve the middle class sustainablely, would strengthen purchasing power and would contribute in time, namely now, that we did not go further into a crisis, so that we might be standing here in half a year or year and note: If only we had decided on this package at the time, we would not have to re-establish! That would be our package. I think that unfortunately God lacks courage from the SPÖ and ÖVP. Otherwise, it can't be explained. That's a shame. I believe that we must now quickly avoid a sustainable disaster for our own people and quickly decide on a truly appropriate economic package that deserves the name, and not this “package” that is available today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e1771	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e1792	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in the financial committee, we have dealt with this medium-sized package or economic package more or less, not treated enough, not treated enough reasonablely, because such a package, of course, takes more time, one would really take it seriously. This was apparently not the intention of the government parties either. I must confess that I would have expected more from the ‘Austrian talks’, including in dealing with the forthcoming financial crisis. We have countered the banking crisis more or less, at least preventatively, by sending a 100-billion-€ package in the form of liabilities and participations on the journey. As a second logical step, of course, the real economy would have been in line to deal with this in the Austrian talks and then to create a vast majority here in the House. I am sorry that this has not been done to prevent red and black from being seen by the two government parties, because we have also sent a clear signal with this bank rescue package. They were all themselves touched and affected, unlike Germany, where this was very strongly discussed in the Bundestag. From Austria a clear signal of the will has been given to save the banks – and thus also to protect investors and to keep the monetary circulation in motion. That was true for the Austrian economy. I am therefore sorry that this economic recovery package has not succeeded. We have here a “packaging cart” – I would say – which basically includes three things: first of all, the expansion of liabilities and guarantees in the area of Austria Wirtschaftsservice GmbH and the European Investment Bank. The expansion of liability is far from a package. This is a good idea for upcoming investors and investments. We have mentioned the second infrastructural measures. First of all, it has been very amusing for me that we are being sold by Mr Faymann, the Federal Minister, which he has already announced. Actually, he's a sales genius, I have to say. Complementary, Minister of State! You sell one and the same product twice. [[Abg. May. Stadler: New style in government!]] I just hope you won't become an Icarus of internal politics, because the fate of Icarus in Greek mythology is known to you! [[Abg. Weinzinger: Who shall be the sun?]] He didn't get in control of the vehicle with which he wanted to make the upswing, and he took a break, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I also criticise this, above all, because once again you have remained faithful to your principle of promoting the West Railway, rather than also expanding the links to the South accordingly. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] This package has not succeeded. Red-black has also served a little bit, preferring. The Chamber of Commerce receives €25 million for an international security offensive. That's right. That is perfectly true, Mr Mitterlehner! That's quite clear, the Chamber of Commerce needs money and gets it. At €25 million a very good start was achieved once. She is also an important partner in the export business – no question! Every second euro will be earned in Austria via export. We see this very similar. But I believe that something, Mr Klubobmann Pröll, will not succeed in selling us this increase in the premium of construction savings contracts as an economic impulse. This is very difficult. There can be no economy if you pay premiums for building savings contract users to carry the money to the bank or use it for future construction projects or for pension provision, as we have agreed together. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Credit volume!]] It is certainly not immediate economic activity! What we need is clear impetus for the economy! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the one hand, we have saved the banks with €100 billion or at least put them in line for salvation – and we have strengthened Mr Ikrath, of course! [[Abg. May. Ikrath: Strengthened!]] You will also use this strengthening, I have heard! – And then you face a medium-sized package, a business package with a budget-effective €70 million. It is not a billion €, Mr Klubobmann, but it is only 70 million € budget-effective of what has been incorporated into this package. That is not enough from our point of view. We will, of course, agree because it is a first small step. But you already have to make efforts to deal with this threatening economic crisis. We have proposed that we should provide genuinely effective impetus for the economy to promote investment by reintroducing a growing premium in Austria. This is an effective instrument to boost investment, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] 10 percent grant for any investment that is made! Of course there must also be tax reliefs! Today we proposed a tax bonus of €200 in the Financial Committee. This is what we can do this year, because it is administratively simple, not very complex, immediately effective, and people have more money. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The economic view, ladies and gentlemen, can only be that we give people money. If people have money, it strengthens the purchasing power. More purchasing power provides more revenue, more sales for higher tax revenue. Indirectly, for our economy, this is the fact that we finally take these basic principles to heart and implement them. Another point is research and development. Now would be the right phase if you didn't get rid of the old products that you invest in research and development. We should therefore provide incentives for research and development in companies and provide investment incentives for these innovative companies. I am only on the verge, because I don't have much time left, I can also address the issue of AUA, because in the course of the privatisation order everything was blocked, which can actually be stunned, and to this end I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e1945	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e1966	Madam President. I should like to add a few words to the AUA's situation. That's right on the subject. If you hear the statements of the responsible managers – not only in the AUA, also in the ÖIAG; and if you are responsible for these managers, you will also have to talk about it! – you already have to get the impression that the thing has been brought down with the start, quite clearly! At the beginning of this year – in February – Mr. Ötsch stood up and said: The AUA is renovated. – In April, Michaelis and Ötsch were here in this House, in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, and have been closely consulted. Two days later everything was different. At first everything was renovated, the rulers then talked about a so-called stand-alone solution, although it had to be clear for a long time – even because of international studies, it was even commissioned by the AUA a study by Roland Berger, which had been known for two years – that it was only a strategic partner. The Greens are the last who want to interfere directly in business decisions in terms of economic policy. – We don't want to. These stories, however, not only cry out for information, but as a layman in the aviation industry, one can soon judge that things did not go wrong. The tendering process referred to here is as follows: Yes, it is true, we have the impression that the Lufthansa is systematically preferred. We have also heard some indications in this direction; they have partly been published medially. At the end and under the line must stay: If the matter is already being reorganised with a two-month profit, which has been negotiated and which is only good at checking whether this is in accordance with EU law, which has been done here, namely a new debt acquisition, then we use the months immediately to ensure that more bidders return to the procedure! I think that you can only start the call: more potent bidders in the procedure – that will improve the price and the offers – and the incompetent managers out! – I don't invent that, that's what Hannes Androsch and others say. It's enough! It's enough with Mr Michaelis, with Mr Ötsch, loud colleagues of the Bartenstein-Grasser economics course, Mr. Federal Minister! That's it. We're leaving Mr. Prinzhorn out now, he's gone already. That's it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us now turn to this template called the “Economic Resurgence Act. ” Mr Faymann, Mr Klubobmann Pröll, I must say that what has been presented here is very disappointing. They announced on the edge and on the occasion of the so-called Austria talks exactly for the present day an economic recovery package and put it in perspective, but something else is present! Not that this would be absurd, on the contrary, some passages even seem very useful, but that has nothing at all with economic recovery in the narrower sense – but nothing at all! - to do. Mr. Federal Minister Pröll, if you say that the liability of 1 billion – it is only about the liabilities – is caused by a growth of 1 percent, then what you order there is a voodoo economy similar to that of the counter-businesses. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Why?]] – Do you know what 1 percent of economic growth is? Tell me! That would now be €3 billion. How do you want to generate 3 billion additional growth with 1 billion liability? The bank liability package would have to generate 300 billion additional growth. - That's completely absurd. This is exactly the same economic philosophy as in other transactions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They have not even studied the law very carefully. You didn't know that the 25 million of export guarantees you're talking about here aren't laid down in the law at all. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] This is your economic package, the You're presenting here today. You've announced something's coming up until Thursday last week. – Now we stop – to Alexander Citing Van der Bellen, who formulated this very nicely – a banking supplement law. - That's it. But we could have done this last Monday – certainly even, reasonably perhaps, because there are reasonable measures in it, but no economic recovery. Now I'm wondering, Why did we have to wait to this day because of this law? Nowotny pointed out that because of the banking package, perhaps we should not make a special meeting to avoid worrying the so-called markets. If nothing else has come out to this day but this and the regulation, which is actually the only instrument of this bank rescue package, has not been adopted until today – we will see if Mr Finanzminister and Mr Bundeskanzler will be able to do something tomorrow –: Then why did we hold a special meeting? Why isn't the package on the table right now, as the bank president wanted? That's not right in the back and in the front. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] - You're swimming for notes. I am allowed to respond briefly – and that has enough to do with economic policy – to this bank rescue package and to say to you: We will now closely monitor whether the commitments you have made to us, the opposition, also on the occasion of our consent, will really be respected. One condition was that the National Council will be fully informed about the state of banking in general, about the sectors in the Austrian banking landscape and also about any problems with individual institutions, if they are known, without any business secrets. That was stone and clear of our offer, and you agreed. That is why we are also making the following request today to help you make the jumps: [[Quoted print version removed]] We won't let it go either. It is also about the fact that this regulation is in line with what we have agreed on: that it is now really so that the banks that are taking advantage of it must meet certain conditions and they do not write the law for their own needs. It's over now! I hope that some will join us. But I am hopeful in this respect, because we do not like it anymore. We Greens, in any case, make ourselves the lawyers of taxpayers on this issue, because all that is being made badly falls to the budget and thus the taxpayers on the head. So be sure, we will follow that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to sum up just a few words on the real problem, the economic recovery and the lack of economic direction of this bill. It is the opportunity to bring the environment and the economy together. If it is true that there is a downturn in the economy, then one must prefer those measures in the investment sector that can start this winter. And here, these are mainly ecological investments, thermal building renovations. I took it with you here on the government bank: loud Wifo studies, which were partly commissioned by you. All experts say: Please, we are investing in building renovation now, we are investing in the expansion of public transport! You know this, Mr President, most jobs for the euro used, not anywhere near the motorways. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Sonnberger]] At the same time, this would have the necessary climate protection effects. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The other speakers of my group will explain this. I leave you on the government bank for the time being this my collection. I'm sure you'll find time to browse. Sharpen your conscience!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e2086	Mr Klubobmann Bucher has justifiably tabled a motion for a resolution which is under negotiation, and now also Mr Kogler, Member of the European Parliament, is also in the process of negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e2208	Mr Faymann is now speaking. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e2240	I will tell you in detail, Mr Cot. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First to the two previous speakers. – Of course, you can say about any measure and any package it could have been bigger. This is not yet a very sharp criticism. However, if you say that parts of the package are not new, this is wrong because both the liability for loans that smaller and medium-sized enterprises urgently need – in various forms, as Minister Pröll did – as well as the measures on rail and road are of course measures which are not yet to be found in the framework plan with this timetable and start of construction. It is only – for those who read the framework program very sloppy – to find sometimes equivalent titles, for example: station. However, if you make the effort to read the second line, you can see that the start of construction of all these projects will be made clear: from 2016 to 2010, from 2017 to 2009, from 2015 to 2009, and so on. So I could show you project for project – Heller and Pfennig had been said earlier – and explain to you why, if we prefer a project for years, we are making investments that have not been sold by anyone in any framework – regardless of whether to rail, road or other areas such as broadband. So the investments we are now making are investments that will benefit the economy first in the next year through pre-planning, but then through concrete construction activities. And that's a difference to the framework plans you've kept in your hands so far. So much effort should be made when reading a paper, Mr. Bucher! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now, of course, one can be different about the question: What's all this all about? How much does that bring? . I think it is sensible, at any rate, for small and medium-sized enterprises who are concerned not to obtain loans for their investments, for their projects, for their expansions, for their future business areas, a support by means of liabilities. – The previous speakers have not been able to dispute that either. Whether we should have decided that at the time or whether we decide to do so, I must say that I am glad that we decide and that it is also valid for businesses. How much 1 billion liability in actual volume is certainly not so easy to calculate that we could now agree at this meeting. That is quite logical, because we would first have to agree on how many of these liabilities are used when at all and what it means for many companies in their business fields – both in their present and in their future – if it does not exist, and how this can be calculated. So there will always be a certain range of estimates, but with 1 billion liability and yet more than several hundred million distributed over the next few years – 700 million alone from 2009 to 2012 – I consider a sum of 1 percent and thus around 3 billion to be quite predictable; of course, in a certain range of estimates, that is not to be disputed. If we give companies security and create investment in this scale – that is to say, generate public demand – then this is not a “packet basket” and not a “package”, but it is one, as I believe, quite proper measure, which we can take together to be proud of, because it is a measure at a time when other countries have not even begun the preliminary discussions, whereas we have managed to put forward measures in these two areas very quickly, which, as I hope, are also decided by the honourable Members today. It is therefore a measure that takes place in time and a measure which has been referred to by all as the first step. I allow myself to say that also the measures for the families – the 13. Family support, for example – or the increase of the care allowance, but also other measures, such as those for seniors with one-time payments, heating or pension increases, are an important contribution to the increase in purchasing power in our country, and that the purchasing power to strengthen – an important contribution also in the future for further measures that we still need to put in place – is probably not shared consent. What are we to do in a situation where we are all told that economic growth is going to be zero, economic growth is greatly reduced, the order books are empty and, of course, there is a danger of unemployment? If the first forecasts of additional unemployment are made next year and therefore other people are either affected by short-term work or by unemployment, what does policy have to do to set conditions? Strengthening the purchasing power of the population is an important measure. The measure to increase public demand is... – – We have already decided on a number of things together, and I have already tried to remind you of this: the family allowance, the care allowance, the elderly, the one-time grant et cetera. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But it's nothing in the package!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You must finally reduce the taxes!]] – Very well, Mr. Cot. The question must also be: What do the next measures look like? The first step has the goal of having a second and a third step, otherwise it would not have to be numbered if it were anyway the only step. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But people are waiting for a tax reduction!]] So, of course, the question, when and to what extent we are able to continue to strengthen the purchasing power of the population, will be a major concern in the fight against unemployment, in the fight against weakening the economy as a measure against falling economic growth. The measures which increase public demand are also well fulfilled with this programme as far as the first step is concerned. It remains the third step which measures are being discussed, for example, in the area of social partners, in order to promote and support investment by businesses. I think we – and we can say that together – are on the right track, but we have not yet reached the goal.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e2342	The next speaker is Mr. Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e2363	Madam President. Estimated Members on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! When the customer came to us from the United States a little more than the term of the year, a mortgage credit crisis started, we were hopeful: first, that this crisis would not reach Europe, and second, that this crisis would not hit the real economy. – Unfortunately, both hopes have proved to be very deceptive. We are in the middle of a financial market crisis, which is without an example in history, and in the middle of a financial market crisis that has already hit the real economy. Mr Faymann referred to some of the events in Austria; Focus – unfortunately God – on the automotive area: Terminations, short-time work, decreases in orders and the like more. The prospects are quite critical. It was more than necessary to act quickly – and the Federal Government has acted quickly! Firstly, the measure of the bank package of €100 billion for liabilities and own resources was set at the right time, if necessary, in the European context. We do not want to imagine what would have happened to us if we had not been a member of the euro zone, if we had not been a member of the European Union, what speculation pressure this country and its currency would have been exposed to. This has worked very well and has probably been accepted in the market – this shows. But it is incontrovertible among economists that it is essentially necessary three areas to prevent the impact of the banking and financial crisis on the real economy: not only the security of money movements among banks, not only the security of sufficient own resources for banks, but also the prevention of a credit clamp, a credit agreement for the real economy, especially for the medium-sized countries, is important. Even if all the organs are healthy – and Austria's middle class, Austria's economy is healthy – if the blood circulation does not work when the money starts to grow, everything else does not help, then everything goes down the stream there. So, in view of this small-scale billion, this package is of great importance, and I thank all those who have contributed to developing this very quickly and precisely. This is not a “packaging basket”, which is not a small one, that is € 1 billion, which will benefit the medium-sized economy by means of direct budgetary measures, liabilities and loans – and very quickly, ladies and gentlemen! It is perfectly right – and Mr Faymann has also mentioned this – that there will be even more need for further steps with a focus on investment incentives, with a focus on research and development, with a focus on the environment, but that we decide today on these SME billions is an important message for Austria's economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is the right mix to prevent this credit terminal, ladies and gentlemen! This is the right mix to provide equity to those companies that need it. This medium-sized fund, which is to be set up within the framework of the austria economic service, with € 40 million per year available in equity, is highly innovative. This is a mix of different credit framework extensions from Austria, but also from the European Investment Bank, which will make it easier to access promoted loans. Mr Klubobmann Bucher, you said this quite devaluablely: The Internationalization Plan is by no means a chamber support! On the contrary, this is something that goes far beyond the business organization of the Chamber of Commerce, including what the operation is about. Forget You don't: In Austria, 6 out of 10 € are now earned in export, in the export of goods and services; in addition, tourism is also included indirectly. If, instead of 10 percent this year, growth is only more than 5 percent, this is extremely worrying, which is why this effort to continue to ensure 25 million euros is always worth it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Last but not least, dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, the topic of building savings. – We valorize the basis of assessment from 1 000 to 1 200 €. This may not appear particularly significant at first glance as for the economy, but you will count on it once, Mr Klubobmann Bucher! This means that the currently available volume, with which Austria's building savings banks can serve in loans, will be increased by about €3.3 billion by no less than €600 million, by just this 20%. € 600 million of additional money per year that can be built with! – jobs In relation to what Minister Faymann has just said: € 700 million for the railway area within a few years! A very substantial, most important point which I do not wish to give up. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Looks like: We are not yet ready to speak of zero growth, Mr Faymann. The economic researchers have recently said that 1 percent plus/minus should be. Let's hope the pessimists don't keep right who expect even less. We are not yet ready to take the “R word” into the mouth, but we are doing what we can do in the direction of real economy in order to present the message today with credibility: Love medium-sized entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in this country, you will also receive in future the financing you need if it is necessary also equity. You get the help it needs, because you are the backbone of our economy, you are the jobs, you are the innovation, and that's why you deserve any support that is imaginable and possible. If, in the coming weeks, concrete second and third steps will be negotiated in the course of the coalition negotiations towards research promotion, investment incentives, environmental promotion, thermal building renovation – Minister Pröll has here excellently negotiated an Article-15a agreement with the countries to lay the basis for the more going on in terms of thermal building renovation than before – then the important thing will be be second and third steps. However, the first important and good step will be taken today, and I thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e2448	The next speaker is Mr Katzian. 6 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e2469	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I was in the office today before the start of this third meeting and have signed short-term work agreements there again – for the time being over the last few days. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Which office?]] – In my office in the trade union organization, ladies and gentlemen Westenthal, I signed short-term work agreements. I mention this because I believe it is important to know that we can very much speculate whether or not the crisis is going to pass over to the real economy, but the fact is that the crisis has arrived in the real economy. The short-term work agreements of the last days are a sign of this. I think it's also good to remember why this is so: The reason is, apart from margin and band, financial markets, deregulated structures, too little control over these financial markets, and also a policy that has allowed and supported these developments worldwide. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] Now it looks like, ladies and gentlemen, the people, the workers and the workers who have to pay for it. I mean, politics now has to do exactly what workers expect, to counter it and to prevent them from paying the bill. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore believe that the bank package has been a necessary step, and I am also very pleased that the decision of this bank package has expressed that “state” and also the need for state regulations and regulations are not something retro, but that this is something that is necessary and which has a corresponding significance in the future. The economic decline we are discussing is the result of this crisis. Healthy and successful businesses are facing problems, and workers are threatened to pay the bill. I spoke today to the works council of the company for which I signed the short-term work agreement, and he told me that he really does not understand the world, because the key figures of the company are good, the economic development of recent years, the results were also excellent – and now these measures and these steps are on him and on the employees there. Because this is the case, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this economic package is a real and important step, but it can only be a first step. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But only half!]] It is about taking further steps, which are also within the meaning of the workers. One point that cannot be mentioned often enough in this context is the fact that we have a serious problem with domestic demand, that we have an effective purchasing power problem and that, according to banks, the construction industry and industry, we will be the trading sector that will be heavily affected next. Therefore, it takes good pay and salary accounts as soon as possible with real wage increases and not constantly someone who tells us, now the big difficult times are coming, does measure. There is a need to favour tax relief for all workers. This is a command of the hour: We now need, as soon as possible, a wage tax reform to relieve workers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we also need measures in the labour market policy. It is about ensuring the placement of required qualifications. It is not always the case that placement before qualification is the right step. We also need measures to prevent the threat of poverty. Many people in Austria are acutely poor, many are at risk of poverty, and this is why it is about implementing minimum security, closing the gaps in the social network, and ultimately ensuring that the net replacement rate for unemployment is increased accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] All this, ladies and gentlemen, costs money. And in the next few days there will be a lot of talk about it: What is available? I would like you to think carefully about what policy is asking. Asks the question: What can we do with the money that's here? Or would she ask the question: How do we finance those measures that are necessary and how do we ensure distribution justice? – I hope we ask the second question. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why it will also be the case that we need to take up a higher budget deficit, and I believe that the debate on a higher budget deficit is also a good opportunity to re-examine the meaning of the current Maastricht criteria. I wish myself at the end The following: We have taken an important step together to help the financial economy and the banks in Austria. We are taking a first step today, and more will follow to help the economy and workers. I very much hope that we will not be here in two to three years and that those who are now trying to get through the crisis will explain to us, but now we need savings packages, because there is no money for pensions and for health! That is what I am saying today, and we are not going to play it, and that is to be said quite clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e2559	Mr Neugebauer is the next speaker. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e2580	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know how you do it when you read the paper. Some start from the front, some from the back. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Some not at all!]] – Some don’t – that’s the worst. I usually start by looking at whether there is a surprise anywhere in the financial market – a possibly negative surprise. I am actually glad to see how many experts now suddenly emerge, who have long foresaw all of this and also invent a recipeology, how we can meet all of this. I believe that this US-born mortgage crisis has long developed into a global financial market crisis; it has not only been speculated about finances, but also about real estate, raw materials. What once turned out to be a safe haven – gold, euro, crude oil and the like – has long become an ambivalent matter. When I read from economic researchers that a comparison is made with 1929, this means that a small country like that, in addition to the agreed measures in Europe, has taken the right measures step by step at the right time. The lower consumption in the US, of course, also weakens the support of our economy, without a doubt exports. I met the term “credit terminal” today. I think – perhaps this word will even become the “unword” of the year – that is the reason for a package that is presented today and, as I hope, will find great approval. There is no doubt that the European Union has proved itself to be successful. The fact that the European Central Bank has intervened several times, in order to avoid this ‘credit clamp’, the fact that one has agreed on an extraordinary liquidity injection and that the central interest rate movement in Europe has also been voted on internationally has prevented many things. National aid measures for bank rescue and economic recovery are evident. The prognosis has already been addressed: Despite a very strong first half of 2008, the Economic Research Institute predicts growth of only 2% in 2008. For the year 2009 – Mr. Bartenstein has already pointed out – a growth of about 1 percent is forecast. Interesting in this context: Although we actually have a relatively lower economic growth in this year – compared to earlier – we have an unusually strong increase in employment, one in 2.4 percent. I would like to point out that this is also due to one of these measures, which we have followed and finally decided together, namely the direct registration of employment in social security, which undoubtedly also affects employment. [[Abg. Oillinger: But that's what you've needed for a long time!]] However, unemployment will increase, and real purchasing power will be significantly inhibited by price increases in crude oil and food. The fact that trade unions will also argue in collective treaty negotiations with a view to strengthening purchasing power is of course a matter of course. The bank package, with the aim of securing the flow of money between banks and strengthening own resources, also has the effect – because in addition to reality there is a lot of psychology – that it makes it clear that people do not need to be afraid of their savings. When you talk to older people, you hear: I don't understand this whole dilemma anyway, but the little ones will always pay for it! - That's exactly what must not happen. So that this does not happen, we have decided on this bank package, with the guarantee that the savings of the so-called small people are still secured. Mr. Klubobmann Bucher, of course, when it is saved and nothing goes into consumption, this is bad for the economy, but that you are putting the building savings into a pot, namely the expansion of the base from 1,000 to 1,200 €, is not understandable. You know that a total of €16.7 billion of capital is available at the building savings banks, and 16.4 billion of these are on the go. And if we are now expanding the basis of assessment, then 600 million of additional funding is available. If you calculate the variants of education and pension provision, there is still a large part that is certainly going into the real economy. I think it makes sense to continue the round tables initiated by Sepp Pröll, because this not only gives the same flow of information but also makes it clear that, in a difficult situation, government and opposition are trying to pull together on one strand. One can still think differently afterwards, but I think that this is a very important political asset, an important part of political culture. This economic recovery law for small and medium-sized enterprises, which we decide today, is an essential step, and I think, knowing that far more than half of our self-employed people are employed especially in these small and medium-sized enterprises, also a necessary and welcome step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e2635	Mr Fichtenbauer has now come to speak. 6 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e2656	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The Freedom Party will not vote in favour of point 1 of these joint motions for a resolution on the prevention of a label gap, but it will very much agree with points 2, 3 and 4. But it cannot pass a day when such things are debated without finding clear, clear words regarding AUA and ÖIAG. To remember: AUA's primary capital is €264.40 million. ÖIAG holds about 42 percent of this, with around 48 percent in the scatter, 7 percent in institutional terms, and 3.45 percent in Austrian Airlines. In the public presentation of the AUA management, it is pretended that the ÖIAG would be a sole shareholder. And when we talk about so-called privatisation, we are talking about whether and to what extent and under what conditions the shares held by ÖIAG are sold out privately or sold to third parties. To address the activity of AUA management, there is the urgent suspicion that insider information should be passed on as well as that shareholders, individual shareholders should be preferred. This is a violation of the provision of the § 48 Stock Exchange Act as well as a violation of § 255 Stock Exchange Act. This is the incorrect disclosure as well as the concealment and concealment of business-related events in the Annual General Meeting. According to the provisions of the Stocks Act, reference must be made to the specific obligations of the Board of Directors: First of all, a reporting obligation to the Supervisory Board in accordance with § 81 Shares Act and the Annual General Meeting according to § 153 para. 4 and § 221a para. 5 Stocks Act. There is a specific loss reporting obligation in accordance with § 83 of the Stocks Act. In addition, it should be pointed out that the reporting obligation of the Executive Board must specifically comply with the principles of sound and faithful accountability – in accordance with § 81 para. 2 of the Stock Act. What happened? – Around the AUA story and the ÖIAG story – in order to describe it briefly with these words – there is an inconceivable and unacceptable disaster that can be described as a mixture of incompetence, conscious concealment of truth and manipulation. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] I should like to remind you that at a press conference on 13 October, a press conference was held. The Board of Directors of Ötsch stated a profit for 2007 of 3.3 million, the renovation of the AUA as a fixed fact, and of a President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Apparently – I don't know – he is supposed to have burned 500 000 € for the jubilee celebration on occasion 50 years of AUA in the hangar with VIP and Do&Co service. - But that's just by the way. Then there was the well-known signature of the investor, who then left because, as he said, he was lying. ==References== In July, the previously conjured stand-alone policy was no longer existing and the search of a partner was presented as justified. ==References== July, that is, a few months after the announcement... – It is very likely that this has something to do with the economy, because public money will be fried in a shameless way and the ÖIAG is a model image of failure! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] The questions must be asked: Is it true that the report, which calls the stand-alone solution impermeable, is hidden in the AUA box for two years and in the ÖIAG? Is it true that the start of Mr. Ötsch as a manager in the AUA was linked to the political obligation to keep this opinion secret and, until the end, to call the stand-alone solution the only possible solution on bending and breaking? And: Is it also true – yes, it is also true! – that under the management of a certain Mr Michaelis, ÖIAG, the greatest disaster in this field has occurred and a loss of popular wealth has not been recovered? The Freedom Party therefore ultimately calls for the replacement of this incompetent management, immediately! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's Ötsch's and Michael's discharges. Now! Austrian politics must give an answer to this unsustainable scenario. And as a People's Office, Parliament is obliged to take into account the interests of the State, the interests of our people. Please act!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e2785	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 7 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e2806	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear colleagues! Already enormous if you want to sell a so-called 1-billion € medium-sized package, which consists essentially of liabilities and guarantees, as a great achievement for the middle class. This one is not only moaning under the financial crisis, but, of course, under the whole economic situation. Of course, it is always the location that determines the position. But, Minister Bartenstein and Minister Faymann – who has already left us again – we only decided a so-called bank package a week ago. This is also a guarantee; this is currently modern, the government guarantees at the moment for everything possible: It guarantees the banks for €100 billion – of course, tax money; it now probably guarantees – and I would have liked to hear that from Mr Faymann – for €500 million in debt at AUA. The government may guarantee – and this is the next or next week – a double-digit billion in debt to the ASFINAG, for a double-digit billion in debt to the ÖBB. – It is guaranteed and guaranteed and guaranteed! Only: It is not guaranteed and there is no guarantee for a tax reduction, for higher wages and incomes of people, for higher pensions, even for more income for all. There's no guarantee you won't listen. This is you, ladies and gentlemen of red and black, no matter! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The only thing guaranteed with your guarantees is that the taxpayers for mismanagement, for millions of heavy managers who then leave and are no longer available, are asked to check out. This is mismanagement, ladies and gentlemen, and the taxpayer can pay it! When you look at what's going on: On Monday a week ago, we were quick to convene a special meeting, Mr. Klubobmann Cap. Everyone has explained how important it is to decide immediately. But now, just now, in the APA and in tomorrow's newspapers, it is to be read that the ÖIAG and the banks are disputed about the clearing site. It's about power, influence and people. The banks suddenly insisted that this could cost a bit, because they might also have to finance something – and want to put the package back on immediately. It is incredible and an increase in this House that, due to the urgency of the situation and the panic, we convene a special meeting on the markets – and then the banks come and say: That's not what we want, we want a better job! – We cannot let that happen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's a scandal, and people won't understand it either. People don't understand this, taxpayers don't: 100 billion € for the banks, 500 million € for the AUA, billions for the other indebted companies – and you have been explaining for years and days, for weeks and months, since you have been in the government for two years that there is no money. They tell people that there is no money there, for example, to increase pensions by the inflation rate. Again, pensions are only increased below the inflation rate. This means a real loss of income for pensioners. Mr Katzian is here as a trade union representative with a faithful look and is directed by this speaker's seat out of demands to himself – that's the best thing at all! – for example, better wages are negotiated. – Mr Katzian, who is disabled As a trade unionist, what about doing that?- Oh, my God! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] One more thing, Mr. Katzian: As a Member of the majority group, you are here saying that you would like a tax reform to take place immediately. – A demand that we have made for years and days because we know that this is necessary. Mr Katzian, just so that you can know so that it can get through to the back: You are the Federal Chancellor, you are the majority group, and you are responsible for the fact that there is no tax reform so far! They have the responsibility and no one else! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Economic support also means purchasing power strengthening, and that is why we are so much behind it that taxes are reduced. Mr Faymann, perhaps hearing You still have me somewhere about a speaker, you used the word “step” 17 times today. “Step by step” you want to do it – well, do it “step by step”. Let us be your stepmaker, Mr Faymann. That is why we are today presenting a comprehensive motion for a resolution, which I am now explaining in the broad guidelines, namely the motion for a resolution on the BZO package for economic recovery and the fight against inflation, tabled by Mr Bucher, Mr Haubner, Mr Dolinschek, Mr Grosz and Mr Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, in which we have written exactly that. Mr Katzian, you will be able to vote for it. The motion for a resolution says that we want a tax reduction immediately, that we want an emergency programme where the tax levels are adjusted in such a way that there is a clear relief for taxpayers. You know this model, I don't need to explain it to you, but we'll bring it back here today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or the 10 percent increase in the investment premium presented by our clubman today. Mr Katzian, you speak with serious words here – and I agree with you because it is not easy to sign short work because it is not easy to conclude such a thing with the workers, but you will probably have signed a lot of short-term contracts for the automotive industry, for the car industry, for suppliers or for trade. But why aren't you prepared to abolish the standard consumption levy with us, for example? – This is also included in this request. That would help the car industry, that would be a relief. Voices You have just tabled this motion for a resolution. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Further: We want to ensure the research and development rate of 3 percent of GDP by 2010. We have today brought in a whole package – up to a heating grant that is urgently needed. We are facing a winter in which 500 000 people will no longer be able to afford heating, sit in the apartments and freeze. We thank God at the last meeting of the previous legislative period, at the request of the BZÖ, that we provide at least the 250 000 minimum pensioners with a single payment of € 210. That was a good performance, that brought the BZÖ here and enforced it. But we need more. In the end, we need this heating allowance for all households up to an income of €2500, which we are applying for today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We also want to take back the increase in mineral oil tax. This is also contained in this request. We want a criminal tax on mineral oil companies, which constantly pass on price increases in the fuel, but not price reductions. Therefore, speculation and punishment taxes and, ultimately, implementation, too, Mr Bucher has already said this, the Koralmbahn project and measures for the barrier-free design of railway stations. These are investment and future measures that we should put in place today with this comprehensive request, and that you – I am sure – should agree with. That would be the measures – and this is an additional demand that still Landeshörmann Jörg Haider has made as an ally, an important measure – on the question of: Why are we not able to reach out to the more than 100,000 one-man companies? We know that the economy is struggling that there will be increased unemployment, we therefore decide to finance the additional wage costs for one-man companies for two years. If only every other person employs someone... – Mr. Mitterlehner, you always laugh when it comes to one-man operations, but they need it most of all and they could create jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Where am I laughing?]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] If only every second person employs someone, we have 50,000 to 60 000 new jobs in Austria. That would be a great program that we can implement together. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Do you agree with the transitional arrangements on the labour market? In this respect, we will hopefully also agree with the trade unionists – perhaps also with you, Mr Katzian – when it comes to extending the transitional arrangements for foreigners on the Austrian labour market, which apply until 2011. It is precisely in this period that unemployment will increase, and there will again be more Austrians who do not have a job, so we also need this measure, ladies and gentlemen. That's important – and at the end of the day, two more sentences on the AUA. What is happening there is really an incredible disaster! An incredible disaster: strange one-sided sale procedures, secret diplomacy, selective information; for two years we know that no stand-alone operation is possible, but we claim to be able to perform it. A number cemetery, a confusion about a mist of debt – €900 million, then it's worth €1.2 billion. That's a special class disaster! That is why it is necessary for this House to be involved, because this is also a matter of taxpayers' money. If it really is so now – Mr Faymann's speech of silence; he has not told us anything about what the government will really do – when it really gets into the taxpayer's pockets again, then it is necessary that we, as trustees of the taxpayers, finally act as trustees of the many voters and decide on a special audit by the Court of Auditors. And we are still going to make this request today, ladies and gentlemen. That's necessary. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We will also not let go of these failed managers in the end to also impose regress requirements! Yes, I am of the opinion that they cannot turn around with the millions disappear in the bag – and pretend to have been nothing. The Minister of Justice, who unfortunately is no longer here, I am looking for the most friendly way to deal with the prosecution. This is due to every sense or nonsense, but when it comes to checking once what happened to the taxpayers' money, whether the laws have been broken, the prosecutor's office is also required. There must be nails made with heads. You have a lot to do, do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e2925	Mr Ing. Westenthaler has just tabled a motion for a resolution, which he has explained in the core motions and which I have tabled on account of its scope in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure; the application shall be negotiated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request within the meaning of § 99(2) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3247	I am also pleased to announce this – Mr Ing. Westenthaler has just mentioned – that I have a request from Members Bucher, colleagues and colleagues to give the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors an audit mandate concerning the conduct of an examination by the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions. I would also like to say that, after the vote on the current debate, I am going to vote on this request. The next item is Mrs Lichtenecker's speech. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3276	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neugebauer asked the question in his speech earlier: Who could have predicted this crisis, who could have expected it? – Mr Neugebauer, financial elites have known exactly what will happen to us no later than 2006. Experts have warned and said that a structure of financial markets, as we have and have had them at present, can only lead to these problems. But what really are the exciting questions: Does politics recognize the signs of time? Can she really interpret the processes? What measures are being taken? If you look at the behaviour of the government parties in Austria, there is nothing to suggest that they actually recognise the structural problems in this form and, secondly, that they also put in place the comprehensive measures for them. And one of the proofs of this is today also this so-called economic recovery package. If this is the case, Mr Minister – and you have done it today – it is a package for entrepreneurs, then I would like to point out quite clearly that these entrepreneurs in Austria are 200 000 single-person enterprises. Mr. Ing. Westenthaler, these are not only one-man companies, but also one-woman companies, because almost half of the one-person companies are women's companies. If you look at what is planned there and calculate what that would mean, then there would be interest-friendly loans for one-person companies – I have already mentioned it, there are more than 200 000 – from around 670 companies. This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this problem. That's ridiculous what you call a package here! Or if we look at the field of environmental measures. It is argued that the Austrian Economic Service Society can borrow loans from the German Credit Institute for Reconstruction for Energy and Energy Efficiency Measures. What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? Does that mean, for a large gas power plant? What does that mean in this form? What does economic recovery mean here? – In the Committee, the management of the Austrian Economic Service has not even been able to respond to what criteria apply. And when it comes to describing the free allocation of CO2 emission certificates for very energy-intensive companies as an economic recovery, and which – ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to – should apply from 2013 onwards, it is probably ridiculous. Of course, emissions trading is something that clearly belongs to the market economy instruments. That's what we're standing for. But then you have to make this up-to-date and introduce an exciting benchmark system instead of just assigning it for free as it is now thought and as it stands in the business package. What kind of incentive, Mr President, is this competition? It can't be. It is also a great concern for us to keep the industry here in Austria safe for jobs, but one thing we can be sure of: This is just the tip of the iceberg, the tip of the crisis we are seeing right now. It's like an iceberg. In the end, 90 percent of the mass is underwater and slowly emerges. Whether we are equipped with these measures, I dare to doubt that. Among this whole story of AUA, incompetent ÖBB management, Constantia and so on, to my great regret, three major environmental studies have been presented in recent weeks. Now, studies don't necessarily have to own that their sukkus is the same, but this time it was. These were studies that were distributed throughout the globe, and the Sukkus was – and so it was quoted in the “Süddeutsche Zeitung” on 18 June. October –: Climate change will hit the economy and people at least as hard as the financial crisis. – And that must be clear to us in this form. Finally, we have two crises worldwide: on the one hand, the crisis of the financial markets and the economy, on the other, of course, the crisis of climate change. Both will meet the people and the economy hard and will meet with full force if it is not done in good time to take appropriate action. There are several points that the two crises have in common. First, they are global, second, they are just to solve together, they need fair, for all portable solutions, and there must be new ways to go. We need international institutions, we need binding global agreements to deal with precisely these crises. To counter this, these are the challenges. Finally, it's a huge chance to invest in climate protection, because that's the real economic engine. Mr. Mitterlehner, coming from Upper Austria, you know that in Upper Austria we have an eco-energy cluster in which 148 companies that make 1.6 billion revenues have 50 percent export ratios. They are affected by the fact that there is ultimately a corresponding fall in demand here. That's where it takes the home market, which's exactly what's going on. It is precisely about doing a free boiler exchange action to relieve people of energy costs in order to create jobs in the region. Take this opportunity! Or the investment in the old house renovation, which, as the Wifo studies quoted today say, can create a huge number of jobs. All of this will protect the climate, create jobs and, of course, relieve people of energy costs. Since we believe that we need a very comprehensive package in this form, we will make two requests. The one request aims to strengthen the purchasing power of consumers, to force companies to invest and to strengthen public demand, because we believe that only so do we have the right input at the present time in the economy. That is why I am bringing in the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glavischnig, Mr Kogler, Mr Lichtenecker, Mr Hänscher and others, concerning the rapid recovery of the economic situation, which has been distributed as to its extent. The key points are, of course, the expansion of public transport, the renovation of the old house, the exchange of boilers, the broadband offensive, but in particular the reform of taxation and taxation, because this will be a central point in actually strengthening the purchasing power of those involved. The second is to go a way into the offensive for renewable energy. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity today not only to agree to a mini package that really covers only a very small part of the economy, but to support a comprehensive package here – in the sense of climate protection and in the sense of the Austrian economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3393	The motion for a resolution on climate change, which has just been tabled by Mrs Lichtenecker, is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is under negotiation. The second request, by Mrs Lichtenecker, is not yet distributed. It will now be distributed because a distribution measure can only take place once an application has been submitted. But, of course, I'd like to have him distributed. It is also sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3620	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. I would like to speak for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3641	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Previous economic growth forecasts should be revised, extremely reduced. We are expected to have a very poor economic growth, with a significant impact on the economy. In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises, which represent the backbone of the economy, are also at risk. In some cases, it is no longer possible to obtain loans. That is why this package of measures is an important step, because it is mainly designed to drive business investment and boost growth for the economy. Of course, a larger economic package will also be drawn up and negotiated in the future, which is essential, but yet this small-scale billion is a very, very important measure because it is acute aid and because it is now to be set up. It is also particularly important to us social democrats that these measures are sustainable and that they flow directly into the real economy. I would also like to make two brief examples of what the measures we are taking today can and will also be. The first thing I would like to mention or point out is the infrastructural measures in the field of ÖBB. In this context, it will be possible to make rapid realizable investments, particularly in the existing network, which can achieve direct economic benefits, even if they only become effective in two, three or four years' time, because construction will only begin. It has already been said today that it is now with the plans, with the orders, with the tenders to begin, that is, the effectiveness is now given. That is why it is also important to decide today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A number of measures of the ÖBB Framework are also preferred. A very important sub-project is the level clearance of Hausfeldstraße, which is to be carried out together with the U2; this can be seen in the overall project of the Vienna-Bratislava link. This link is only unique, but it should be extended twofold, because it is a very important link, which is the shortest link between these two cities and is to be better developed by the expansion of this economic area. In 2010 the metro will be completed in this area, which will be built on stilts, so the track will be above the level, and this subproject Hausfeldstraße will be preferred from 2018 just to 2010. There is a level playing field on this road. Thus, the crossing is replaced and the road is designed more securely for the users. A second thing I believe is very important project is the Construction Saving Act 2008. It has already been mentioned that the maximum amount for which income tax is refunded will be increased from € 1,000 to €1200 per year. The last increase was made in 1999. This can also be seen as a compensation for inflation. Deposits are stagnating. This increase is enormously important so that the building savings banks are given higher funds to be able to lend cheap loans. The demand for loans is available and so this demand can also be met. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have heard that a large percentage of these borrowings go into construction, construction, new construction and renovation. It was still the case in 1997 that around two thirds of the construction went into new construction and a third went into the renovation. That turned around in the meantime. Two thirds are already in the process of rehabilitation, in technical improvements in the context of energy saving measures. These are mainly very labour-intensive areas in industry and crafts. In summary, this very important step is a measure that benefits the real economy, the workforce in small and medium-sized enterprises, where most people find work and income. It is specifically helped because investment is also possible through loans and liabilities. The promotion of infrastructure will create jobs. Investment in the housing sector can also ensure a large number of jobs, which is very important, while saving back money on the state's return on the return. They are not abstract measures, but they are concretely effective measures to support the domestic economy. This means that there are also measures to support workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3714	Next, Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner. I would like to speak for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3735	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The financial crisis has long had its impact on the real economy, here and now. They note this in a rather scurry example. For example, if you're on 1st. January 1 000 € in the five largest companies that have invested in the ATX, or on the other hand 1 000 € in letterless, then you have had the better return on the letterless, because the five ATX shares have about 40 percent value in profit. In the case of letterless people, you have about 57 percent chance of winning. In other words, at this level it seems bizarre, but you can lead small and medium-sized enterprises to have problems reaching finance, and they have large risk increases for projects in particular. Therefore: The situation of the saver is difficult. He deals with his money very carefully, and we also note this in the following: Austria eventually decided to become a European supplier in the automotive sector. This applies to the raw materials industry, starting with the Voest, to specialized companies in the field of electronics and equipment of cars. But there we now have the problem, if the market breaks up, the multiplier goes down, i.e. we have the real crisis there. And thirdly, we also have the crisis in the export sector. Over the last three years, we have always had increases over 10 percent, now about 5 percent. Therefore, if we evaluate this situation, it must be said that it is the real crisis – Mr Katzian has addressed the short work – already there for a long time. It is therefore necessary to counter this situation here and today and to lighten up the investment situation accordingly. I see the levels of action in three areas. One is the European level, where we can do something, with an expansive fiscal policy, but also with extra-budget funding from major programmes. I believe that we are still doing far too little at European level. The second is the weakness management in the area of credit restrictions, where small and medium-sized enterprises in particular are addressed, and the third is national stimulation programmes. What we have today is a first approach in the area of financing in terms of liability in terms of guarantees, in the field of public investment projects that are preferred, and also in the field of internationalisation. Mr Bucher, of course the money does not get the Chamber of Commerce, but we support companies that go into new markets, especially when they occur at fairs, in the start-up of the market, in the start-up of business and much more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] We still put 25 million on it ourselves. That means that these are really important incentives. But, please, look – some have the “Small Newspaper” still there – once in the “Small Newspaper”, look at your emails, then you will see how small and medium-sized enterprises feel the whole thing. They feel that this is extremely problematic. That is why I believe that we need to make quite a lot of efforts in communication to counter it. Why? - I'll tell you. The order of magnitude is not true. We know that we had to help the banks, because if the security net hit there, the problem will extend to the whole economy. But the small and medium-sized enterprises feel the scale as a particular problem that one billion on one side face 100 billion on the other. The second is a bit more serious. That's the feeling. The small business has the feeling that if he has a problem if he can't pay anything, then he goes bankrupt. There is no restructuring in large cases. There is also a problem of information. The third thing I would see as a little more problematic, which is the different treatment. Just as the small and medium-sized enterprises have been partially treated by the banks, namely with this scale, he would also have liked to see other investments made by the banks themselves being missed. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] The last one is: Now there are corresponding stronger, sharper rules everywhere. Now there are liquidity problems everywhere in international loans. I don't think it should be that small and medium-sized enterprises are the sufferers, where the costs are now being shuddered. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, everything for the banks, but on the other hand, everything for small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Abg. Riepl: Workers!]] We need to put in place communication measures now. Mr Westenthaler, if you now pour everything out on proposals, wonderful, the colleague Bucher says quite the opposite, we should actually consult everything intensively, but I would recommend at least one thing: Let's go a middle way. We're not even there right now, that we know what the results look like. And if I don't even know the results, if I don't even know what the next steps are, then I can't finally determine the therapy, because I've already noticed one thing: The money we spent, for example, on 24. September for generous actions, we are probably very desperate elsewhere. Therefore, my proposal: We need all creativity, we need all the innovation that comes into our minds to take further steps. Therefore, measures towards communication, AWS, but also hotel loyalty. It is all stopped to sell the loans accordingly and the better guarantees, otherwise we all have nothing if there is them and you don't use them at all. The second is that we probably need new products. I have nothing against investment incentives in the field of thermal rehabilitation, great measures. But today is not the last day, but the first day of new opportunities. We should consider these carefully. We do not have several shots that are taking place, but probably only a few, but then they have to revive the market in such a way that all other measures in the field of health care, pensions are actually such that we can finance them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3787	Mr Themessl has now come to speak. 6 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3810	Madam President. Ladies on the government bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Mitterlehner said that we are facing a difficult situation, including economic ones, and we have to do something today and here. As the first speaker of his group today, Jan Krainer said that he felt it was a shame that we did not take the second step after the first step, where we tied up the bank rescue package here. Mr. Krainer, do you know what I'm sorry about? - That you didn't make it anymore! You have excellent ideas about what you want to do. The assumptions or the objectives that you actually set in this programme would be extremely good. Only what you made of it is not a second step. I have the feeling that after the first big step you've come to the stumbling point, that's a stumbling force you've produced here, that's not a big second step. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] That is why we will not agree to this either, because it does not help at all and does not solve the problems you want to address at all. They are talking about an economic package for medium-sized enterprises. If you help medium-sized businesses with this, you will lead yourself ad absurd. Although the black group here is always talking about a package for medium-sized enterprises and, at the same time, in the Committee today, would like to make a committee statement that the existing AWS funds should, as far as possible, also be made available to large businesses, which was rejected by God on the part of the Red Group, this shows quite clearly that the EIA is only about supporting the large industry. [[Abg. Krainer: Who wanted to do this?]] The industrial association has rightly rejected this package, according to morgic “Kurier”, because it says it goes in a completely wrong direction. It is about structural measures to improve the rail sector wherever possible. If you are looking forward to this today when you write large orders in the infrastructure sector across Europe, you will notice that you will find a maximum of five to ten companies in Austria that can carry out such orders on the basis of the scope of the order at all. That is to say, small and medium-sized enterprises are not at all helped. There are a lot of things you could have done quite differently. If you say today that you are creating and attracting investment, then this is right, but then you also need to change the framework conditions so that small businesses also have opportunities to use these loans to access the AWS. You know very well that, due to the evaluation criteria, even in part due to it, Basel II, many small businesses are not at all possible and, later, many small businesses do not want to use these loans because of the bureaucratic effort, because it simply takes too much time. And precisely for this reason, the EIA wanted to establish this committee to ensure, at the same time, that these additional funds, of course, also have access to large businesses. Today, the Federal Minister – now he has come to me – expects the increase in the funding framework for the construction savings contracts to cost €600 million. This is entirely correct, but only on the condition that all these support measures, i.e. the increased deposit, are taken into account. Anyone who knows that today the population, especially the small and medium-sized incomes, has no room at all to make such additional expenditures, will find that this is not at all exploited. Even if it were exploited, this capital would be available in three, four, five years at the earliest. That means until then we either swallowed the crisis or we survived it to God. That is exactly the point, and that is exactly this misevaluation and this smooth procedure which is manifest in this package. [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] There are many other things. We decided here recently for the banks €100 billion. We or you want to decide today 1 billion € as a so-called medium-sized package or as an economic recovery package. For the population, for the small and medium-sized incomes, and for the small-sized, the small ones, you have a strange zero euro left, that is, you have 100 billion € for the banks, 1 billion € in part for the large industry you always prefer, but zero for the population. We, not only ourselves, but also other parties in this House have repeatedly applied in recent months for tax reform. Mr Katzian, you are not the only one standing out from the government parties and repeatedly calling for a tax reform, although he does not make it, and you have not limited the second or third step you want to take. It may be that it may be in 2011 if you do not break a new election from the fence again in the meantime. That is why I am now giving you the opportunity to agree to our motion for a resolution, so that the people involved in small and medium-sized incomes also have something to do with the fact that you are really making investment incentives for the economy and, above all, strengthening the purchasing power in our country. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you help and make sure that the purchasing power in our country is right again, that domestic demand is growing, then we will also survive this crisis. But the package you want to sell here today as an economic package is not worth the paper on which it is written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3893	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Themessl is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3966	Mr Scheibner has now come to speak. 7 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3987	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The last time we discussed and decided on 100 billion € for the banks. It's right what my previous speaker said. Today 1 billion € for the economy, but zero euros for raising the purchasing power of the population. – I also believe that this is a wrong situation which has been rightly criticized here. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, you said you should praise this today. Yes, I praise that, 1 billion € for the economy, hurra, wonderful! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Work the people!]] Yes, that helps people, but it's too little. Mr President, you know that it is too little to make 100 billion euros of taxpayers' money available to the banks and 1 billion € for the economic operators, who can't do anything for these speculations that can't do anything for this banking crisis. Our companies didn't do that! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] But there is nothing to be done for people to have purchasing power, as we have demanded, to give a direct grant, a direct payment of €200 immediately, a tax reduction that people can afford more. This would also be a subsidy to the economy, especially to small businesses. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That would be the hour's commandment now. Ladies and gentlemen of the union, where are you? 100 billion € for the banks and for the speculators, but nothing for the workers! This is the wrong situation, ladies and gentlemen, first of all you have to explain to us. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: For the savers!]] What does “for the savers ” mean?- Oh, my God! What else do people have to save? People need to consider how they can finance increased energy costs, also an interesting question, especially to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy you are responsible for in Vienna, or to you from the ÖVP, which you are responsible for in Lower Austria and Upper Austria and in other federal states. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] An increase in electricity and gas costs by up to 40 percent, and it is not discussed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Where?]] 40 percent where you get into the pockets of taxpayers. – What does “where” mean? I'll show you that. Everyone's got that now. You're still laughing?- Oh, my God! – They laugh at social democracy! This even showed the ORF how you tried to trick here. Every electricity and gas customer is now given these prescriptions. But that's where it's covered! Finally, do something about it – as we do, and in this sense I am now bringing forward a motion for a resolution. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's where you get loud at once, at the calls! Calls Not in between, but at last do something for the Austrians! You have been elected for this, and today you have made a vow. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Don't sit around and just yell in! [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] I now make the following request – you have to read it out unfortunately –: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we discuss the 100 billion € to the banks, that's nice and good. The last time we heard that it was like a fire insurance, and it would be “not at all. ” It is only for this to happen so that we have security. Today, the bank representatives already tell us: Each bank, even all the major banks, will intervene in this 100 billion euro pot. This is also interesting: Also cover again and pretend that all of this would be nothing! 100 billion tax money will be made available here – and what are the banks doing? That's what we read in tomorrow's newspapers. The overdrafting frameworks for small businesses, for the traficiants are reduced, probably also for the workers. That's the first one. And what will be the next? Is it possible to demand additional collateral from the borrowers, from the small house-keepers?- Oh, my God! This is the reaction: On the one hand, €100 billion in taxpayers' money, and on the other hand, those who pay for it, that is to say, taxpayers, get it back again! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A scandal!]] Unbelievable, ladies and gentlemen. There must be something to be done here, we must not allow this to happen as a people's representative here in the House! We have the responsibility – first of all, in such a way that these speculators are proposed for the future. At BAWAG, we still did that. But that was only a fraction of the liability we took over. There has been looked into the financial giving of this bank, people have come before the judges, and there are still responsible people “sitting. ” It's true: You have to do a lot of damage, you don't have to talk about it. That's what they say: That's where we need a big coalition to cover all of this – then that's all right. The small – in that case all this is relative... – Yes, of course! [[Abg. Gahr: Cover?]] Then open this once, let's look at it! Then we will also make an audit of the Court of Auditors to see where the billions have been speculated, ladies and gentlemen. That would be interesting. One last point: the AUA privatisation, which is now also involved. – I am surprised that Minister Faymann, who is responsible as the Minister for Infrastructure, is not here at all. [[Call the SPÖ: That's not true!]] - Oh, that's not true? And at the ÖBB, he's not responsible for the speculation losses either? [[Call the SPÖ: You have no idea!]] - Aha! It's wonderful what comes from the rulers over there! They are not responsible at all – for nothing at all! But I can still remember: When we successfully privatized the Voest in the government, you have created fear and panic for election reasons. But the voest is wonderfully standing today! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] These are privatizations, how they have been made right, and not such chaos as that has been produced here. If Mr. Michaelis still sits down as ÖIAG chief and says: That was all right anyway, we're so great!, then I wonder: What kind of manager are these? They really belong to the door so that they can no longer do such damage in the future, ladies and gentlemen! I have already expected – and this is just about you from the Social Democracy, which once, when you were in opposition, have scandalized everything and also discussed good solutions – that you do not cover, but in the sense of the Austrians, ensure that control is organized here, both in these privatisations and in the question of what these billions have been speculated for, for which the taxpayer now has to be held.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4178	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4242	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4263	Ladies and gentlemen! After today's events, I do not want to go to the agenda without further delay, and only with two sentences I can see a little personally. [[Abg. Grill: Always!]] I think it unacceptable that a Member of Parliament, who calls a Nazi union his “the League of Life”, may be the third president of the National Council, and I think it is a shame that representatives from SPÖ and ÖVP have also elected him to do so! [[Call the ÖVP:... that the mushroom is still in the National Council!]] [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grill: A shame is not to take note of democratic rules of the game!]] I just wanted to say that. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, if you can calculate some kind of head, you will find: Without some votes from you, it would never have taken 109 votes for Count. That's it. Check your own club and consider your very personal political relationship with “Olympia”, to Dr. Graf and many others. Now on the real issue, and I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a motion for a resolution that sounds a bit complicated, but what is hidden behind it is unfortunately very simple. There are tens of thousands of people, tens of thousands of families in this Republic, who have called in representatives of banks, who may take up a loan for the purchase of a home, a residence, and choose a banker – instead of a monthly equal refund rate – who is served by a stock fund. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: But there is already responsibility in life?- Oh, my God!]] That is to say, instead of regularly paying back with certainty, people should speculate with the help of the bank, hoping that everything would go well. And banking advice has usually said: It's great, it's going to be much cheaper. The second point is foreign currency loans. The same bank advisors recommended to the interested parties: Take foreign currency credits, you pay back much less! – Now that all of this goes wrong, these people get letters from their banks and credit institutions, and in these letters reads: If you do not bring additional collateral in the shortest time, the loans will be made due! – These people are usually unable to bring any additional security because they do not have it. The Federal Government has taken care of a speculation bank called “Constantia”. It shall take care of the Board of Directors of the Banks; it shall provide further money and other collateral to the Executive Boards, to whom the greatest distrust is due. She lets the AUA board continue, she lets the ÖIAG board continue, she lets the ÖIAG Supervisory Board continue – but to the small people, the housekeepers, she signals: Unlike the bank boards, you take the risk yourself! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: But there's a responsibility, isn't there?]] That is why we have tabled this request. That is why, with a vote, we want a majority in this House today to ensure that there is a moratorium and a minimum degree of security for these people. For if they are already told that they may be victims of the speculations of banks with their incomes and low assets, then the banks must not abandon them if that happens, which is perfectly normal in the stock market: that there is not only an upper one but also a bottom. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Self responsibility, colleague Pilz!]] We must also signal banks that demand the money of taxpayers – in part these people – to: Yes, but we also demand something from you, that is, a minimum of security and fairness to tens of thousands of families affected by it! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the SPÖ, but also from the other opposition parties – at the ÖVP, my hopes are limited here – I would like to ask you, this moratorium, this security for simple people who have come up with the promises of bank speculators, to provide a parliamentary majority in this House today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4415	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Pilz is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4520	The next speaker is Mr Grillitsch. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4541	Gentlemen on the government bank! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Pilz, it's not a shame for us here to elect someone to become the Third President according to democratic rules. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I'm telling you: It is a shame that you do not accept democratic game rules! That's a shame! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there has been and is a need for rapid action; I think that has happened to the bank package and to the economic package. I'm telling you, honestly, I don't think it's good that you're talking all of this wrong now. This is the way in the right direction here with the bank package and with the economic package. Of course, further steps must be taken, which is clear to all of us. That is why I am glad that, in this discussion in Austria and in particular in the Austrian People's Party, we also have a concept that has always warned of this globalisation case, namely the eco-social market economy with a strong economic pillar, in order to make the further pillars, namely the social and the ecological ones, manageable. I tell you, I am convinced that, with the eco-social market economy, we actually have this regional response to the globalised markets. Now, of course, we need to implement this right here in Parliament and across the EU. Therefore, I am glad that there is this bank package, but at the same time I say that the current system needs new rules of play. If there are speculators, we need these new rules of play to meet these speculators accordingly. And if there are managers who have built crap, there must also be corresponding consequences for the manager salaries. For that I stand, for that I am – that is clear! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially our small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria now need appropriate support, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. 99 percent of all Austrian companies are small and medium-sized enterprises, and there are really the safest jobs there, in the city and in the country, in all regions of Austria! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] There are the safest jobs in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, and these SMEs deserve the appropriate support because they secure jobs. The motto for the next weeks, months and years must be simple: To secure a job, to secure a job and to secure a job again! That is why I am pleased about this economic recovery package – ladies and gentlemen, you have already heard the number – also through these medium-sized funds, in order to be able to force the growth projects of Austrian companies accordingly, also by increasing the liability framework from €3 billion to €5 billion. I am also pleased that there are appropriate infrastructure measures, although “only” – under quotation marks – with € 10 million, for example, for the expansion of broadband technology and fiber optics technology. This technology, however, brings jobs into peripheral areas, especially in rural areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need them there so that the rural area is not only a recreation and sleeping room, but that it can actually be a sustainable economic area. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad about this, and I say, in conclusion, that this economic recovery package is a package of measures that will not only secure businesses over the next few weeks and months, but will ensure, above all, jobs that will secure people's income, which will also ensure that people can make investments in this way and that Austria remains an attractive economic location.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4622	Next came Mr Weinzinger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4644	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! After several experiences today in terms of citizenship and all that belongs to it, I have undertaken not to say anything about it. But I can't. I cannot do so because Mr. Pilz simply speaks of a “Nazi union” – and he means a highly respected, founded in 1859 and dissolved and expropriated by the National Socialists in 1938. I don't understand! Look You do, please, the historical settlement once upon – then you know that at least you cannot talk about a “Nazi union”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Pilz, you can, for my part, talk about a certain commitment to the German People's and Cultural Community in the corporations, in the beating corporations, in the Waffen Student Corporations. But this is not a “Nazi union”! Nazi is quite different and is not compatible with the terms “freedom” and “democracy” that the citizens have lived and fought since 1815! Please consider if you just say “Nazi union”. Ladies and gentlemen, back to the real topic: The topic tells us that today we should adopt an economic recovery law 2008, KBG – not KGB – 2008. I have looked at it well, I have listened well to the financial committee meeting, I have listened to all the possible arguments – but I do not think the economic recovery is sufficient! I just don't think it's enough. The economic recovery could look something different than that, in turn, the main guarantee for banks is given here, for banks that serve their customers, who have often been loyal customers for decades, so that the banks give them loans and these loans are better secured by the state. This is not a preference of the clientele, not a preference of the middle class, but in the final effect it is a security of the banks. That's too little! I am lacking in this package the strengthening of the equity capital of companies – small and medium-sized enterprises. I am lacking tax incentives, such as investment benefits or a higher limit for the taxation of untapped profits. – I just miss things like that. This is not an economic recovery law that you want to put into the world, and we cannot accept it either. The Federal Minister has said that there is no evidence at all about what our economic crisis is all about and what it is leading to, that one does not know how to do the therapy at all, and that this economic recovery law is therefore only numbered by “one”; it is the first step, and then the second and the third step comes. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see anything written, however, that this is the economic recovery law number one, but here is “Economic recovery law 2008”. – Does the devil know how long this will last, because a second one will probably not exist, because someday one will get a finding and say that one cannot get any treatment from the state because of it at all. I have also not seen that this economic recovery law takes into account the families that families in any form should also receive an economic package. In order to give us a chance to think also of the families, I have to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4729	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Weinzinger is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4858	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. The remaining speaking time of his group is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4880	Mr Federal Ministers, which I do not see anywhere at present! I do not want to argue with anyone about whether this is a “packerl” or not, whether these are important steps or not, whether they are at all steps or not. I'm just telling you: Some of the children who are learning to go are taking greater steps than this government with this so - called “economic step ” that you have brought in today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is also a question of the sizes: If you take the “famous” woman Schmauswaberl, that’s a big step for her and a big package. But if you look at the banks, ladies and gentlemen, that's nothing. Mr Scheibner has already said this: 100 billion € – and they continue to turn us a long nose. Mr Schüssel, let us remind ourselves of the special session. It couldn't go fast enough, it had to happen immediately before the new National Council meets. Then this law is announced in the federal law paper, the black print is not yet dry, the dispute is already beginning as to whether to make the next corrections. [[Abg. Grill: You voted!]] Of course we voted in favour, with abdominal pain. Now I also tell you that what we all feared will happen. I am a Member of Parliament in this House – and that is our duty! – the question of power: Ladies and gentlemen, who is ruling this country? Is there a federal government here? Does Parliament represent the people? Or are the banks already ruling, ladies and gentlemen? Who is creating in this country? – The question of power policy is to be asked! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If, on the one hand, banks can order a 100 billion € package or decide on such a package, before even the new National Council meets, then the taxpayer has to assume liability, Federal Minister, then the government is no longer able to bring a regulation on the ramp at all, because it does not fit the banks. – What you have presented to them does not fit them, we read this today in an APA message. They don't want to bear any costs either. They have explained to us that this will even bring profit, which will, at the end of the covenant, even be a business. – No, that’s what the saver, the taxpayer, has to pay, and the borrower has to pay it again. So who's this business for? – Not for the government, not for the taxpayer, but for the banks it is a business! And then the banks direct us: No, no, Parliament can wish for a lot, but we are now putting the small business owners, the small medium-sized enterprises, the so-called medium-sized enterprises in place the business accounts. The cover framework shall be deleted. Next, ladies and gentlemen, they will even have the maturity in the house! Mr Federal Minister, how do you still want to ensure the blood circulation of this economy if the little ones who have the responsibility and the responsibility for these banks outside have nothing of it? How do you want to make sure the banks turn a long nose to you today, Mr. Federal Minister? - Have you read that yet? - You've read that. [[The speaker holds a newspaper article from Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] The banks will guide you on the day that the APA reports that the next corrections are due, that the little people outside will have nothing of the package that we had to decide in a special meeting here in this house a week ago – with abdominal pain, as we all agreed, ladies and gentlemen! This is the question of power, which is now to be asked: If you are not willing to really take the banks to the kandare if you still pay tribute to false liberalism here, then there is no business package – or “packagerl” or “packerl” – worth anything we advise here, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you do not answer this question of power within the meaning of the taxpayer and his democratic representation, then the banking power will tell you what you have to do. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary today to think about whether this is a large or small package. In any case, the middle class has too little of it. It is true what Mr Mitterlehner said: The displeasure of people outside is boundless, and I warn you: If this displeasure does not arise only in the form of election results, Mr Pröll, but if this displeasure leads once to the street, the banks and the financial offices, then you will have a problem, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: But?]] Don't provoke the people outside who have to pay, who have to be held liable with their economic activity for the bank managers too! That's what you're doing right now. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's why there is this package!]] To make such a ridiculous so-called economic package, at the same time ensure €100 billion for the banks – and then let the banks turn a long nose, without the banks finally being taken to the kandare, that does not fit together! Faith You're telling me: That doesn't fit! For this you will get the bill – and, unfortunately, I fear, all of us. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We're going to go with abdominal pain again today. We will once again send the signal that we are willing to take correct steps, even if they are small, even if they are minimal, nevertheless. But believe me: If you do not get through here, if you do not make sure that what is promised high and holy in Parliament happens outside the banks, then the anger of the citizen will no longer be stopped! And I don't want to deal with this anger.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5007	Next, Mrs. Dr. Moser will speak. The remainder of her group's speaking time is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5028	Mr President. Mr. Minister and Secretary of State on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that there is a great deal of resentment, but the outrage, ladies and gentlemen, about the breakup of trust is still greater. I'll show you three examples: First example of breaking trust: Last week we discussed the rescue of financial markets and banks. – Today there are already details that show that this banking world is once again refusing to accept concrete regulatory, concrete control instruments. Example number two: Last week, we learned from the media that responsible managers of the ÖBB received speculation transactions and have been promised success premiums for speculation by our Minister of Transport, which cost ÖBB more than €630 million. - That's what's outrageous about people. It begs us that people we pay with our taxpayers' money miserably manage our businesses in the deficits and put €630 million in the sand. It begs us that these people then get consulting contracts, redundancies, success premiums, maybe another van and so on. That's outrageous! I come for the third example: We learn every day how much the budget roulette continues to roll at the AUA. There's always new horror reports every day. At the beginning of May, we discussed here in the House when it came to bringing forward a future solution for the AUA. Al Jaber was there a large investor who had raised various stakes. And here, in this high House, we had to listen from the government bank, from the Minister of Finance, from you, Mr. State Secretary Matznetter, and from the Minister of Transport, that AUA is a healthy company and that the stand-alone solution brings the future. And what's today? – Yes, we know: AUA has a debt of €1.3 billion, which falls back on taxpayers! There is no longer a buyer; he only gives someone who takes over the AUA if you pay him something! This is not a buyer, but, as it were, a recipient of taxpayers' money and subsidies! This is the third essential, significant breach of trust that people on the streets only notice with pity. In doing so, the managers who have pursued such a missed policy at AUA – we have heard it in the Court of Auditors Committee – have the highest salary. Mr Mag. Etic or – how do you say? – The Director of the Board of Directors Ötsch is at the top of the salary pyramid. The AUA is so to speak in the basement, the debts are at least as high. The AUA's budget is disolate. These are things that you must also be politically responsible for! This is not just about financial transactions; it is not just about economic economics; it is about the in-house failure of this federal government. This federal government is pressing the banks' eyes, paying the managers high redundancies, although they fail, and has now pursued a completely missing privatisation policy at the AUA – and all this at the expense of taxpayers! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I find that this management failure is rewarded, gilded and honoured with taxpayers' money. That is, I think, the bottom line of outrage that people have long enough of! Return to the economic package: If I invest in infrastructure on the one hand – again in areas where large managers are home – then I look at it more closely. Mr Heinzl, let us take the example of the ÖBB, freight train St. Pölten. That's where I see €400 million and I'm developing a detailed plan for how this bypass is supposed to work. Then I see that these €400 million will be taken to the point that the freight trains will in future pass the freight train station St. Pölten, because the freight station St. Pölten is located north of the motorway and the route runs south of the motorway! We are back here in this House today to decide on'schild-citizens' in the case of infrastructure and economic packages. That's not possible, it's tax money! That's on the table, it's outrageous to the people! It is not possible to make a freight journey without driving the freight station; that is Humbug, Mr Colleague! That's an example. In particular, where we can take real investment useful in the direction of economic recovery and improvement of the educational location Austria, where universities urgently need a rehabilitation programme of spatial nature – 100 projects are submitted, 20 are implemented; for these 20 there are say and write 500 million – there is too little money. I would rather take the €400 million for the journey and at the universities ensure that at last the conditions required by labour law and laid down by law also comply with structural requirements. It will be the It is a shame that we treat our educational and research-based people in part like slaves. These people work partly in the narrowest space – three, four, six people in one room – without daylight in the laboratories; there are miserable spatial conditions; the audiences can trigger depression. On the other hand, however, money managers are thrown down, put into wrong handling projects and used to ensure that we may not demand the necessary framework conditions for bank liability. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a different economic package! We need an economic package that creates confidence; one that does not increase the outrage of people, but puts it where it is necessary: in education, in research, in environmental measures of thermal building renovation. Where consumer power is concerned, every euro of taxes is urgently needed – and not where money is wasted for mismanagement and mismanagement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5141	Mr Wöginger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's 2 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit; the remainder of the speaking time of the group is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5162	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The short-term economic package with the mid-sized billions – primarily to strengthen SMEs – is a necessary, right step in times like this. However, I would like to comment briefly on another item on the agenda, namely the 2008 TOP 4, tax-change law. I would particularly like to thank the chairman of the Günter Financial Committee for his willingness to compromise on the agenda at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Please go! Can we finally hear something else?! Again, “thank you! ” Just more “thank you! ”]] The Greens, ladies and gentlemen, did not agree to this point in advance of the rounding – unlike the other four political groups, I would like to mention this here. It was not until the President's and other political groups' commitment to a further committee meeting in November to increase their willingness to the Greens and to get this item on the agenda. I would also like to tell you what this point is about. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Then do it! The speaking time is already over!]] It is the State aid law for rescue organizations, such as the Red Cross. There has been a tax exemption for the rescue and health services and for the donation of blood for years. The regulation expired with the old law at the end of 2008 and is now being extended until 2013. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, if you stand out here all the time and say that there are junctimized and alternated, then I tell you: It is insidious to ‘pack’ a meeting of the Financial Committee with an important exemption for rescue and relief organisations. That's not all right, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The exemption from VAT allows these organisations to plan for the coming years, and only in this way can these important services be maintained. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You didn't understand!]] Ladies and gentlemen, as President of the Red Cross's Works Council, I know what I'm talking about. It is not always easy to lead these organisations as the population expects. Finally, ladies and gentlemen – it fits the whole package –: It will be decided on billions of liabilities, which are unfortunately necessary, and I will call on you to do so. However, we should also consider the fact that there are many people in this country who save billions of money, namely the volunteers who work in these organisations. I would like to thank these people very much, because they make it easier for us to draw up the budgets in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5243	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. The remaining speaking time of his group is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5264	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Today, we are deciding on a so-called medium-sized package, which, in the form of all possible loans and liabilities, is intended to accelerate the economy and restore a little investment to the companies. I can only tell you one thing: In particular, a group has passed away in these times the desire for investment, namely the simple citizens in this country, the workers and the employees, who for months and years have had to buy an exorbitantly rising price in the last few weeks. Many initiatives have put the Freedom Party into various committees. You can say: Requests were submitted by us in kilos. But the only thing you've done about the great coalition is: You have won by inventing any excuses and making placardial statements to postpone the treatment of our requests. And now you want to make us know in a Husch-Fusch action that there should be an economic acceleration. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, that is more than ridiculous! The only economic recovery can be made by the immediate relief of taxes for the citizens of this country to strengthen purchasing power and to ensure survival for those small and medium-sized enterprises where these people are customers. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] The truth is: Life has become too expensive to invest! And now it's still up to the savings, because many fictitious bank managers have meant that they would have to sell higher-valued charges to their customers through their bank advisors instead of guessing them to a secure savings book or a fixed-rate bond or similar. In fact, these higher-valued charges mean nothing but the highest risk. So now the diligent citizen, who now no longer puts his heavily saved money on a savings book, is investing in any fund that has turned on him any find financial advisor, in front of the ruins of his savings and lives in fear of his existence. Where is the guarantee for the small saver, a guarantee that we give the banks very well? Where is the guarantee for the Little savers, that he'll get the losses he's suffered again? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The banks are protected, they are now a particularly protected area, as we all know, but the citizens in this country seem to you not worth protecting them from losses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] - That's right! And that's why I know what I'm talking about, dear Fritz. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, the first credit line to be deleted is always the short-term, the overdraft line. This concerns both small businesses and private individuals. I am pleased to see you now before Christmas, when it is proven that private consumption is rising extremely, to explain to the father who is currently in short work and whose overhanging framework, why he can't buy a bicycle to his son, or how you will explain to the employee who lost her job why she has to clap her little daughter's hand when she goes through the Christmas market because she can't buy her sugar cotton. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a sensitive time. It is recommended to gather all the strength for the coming weeks and months and to do something for our citizens once – not only for the big institutions in this country, for the banks that are already protected enough and where we cannot really intervene if something should happen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5338	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Kogler. Mr deputies, please start by replaying the claim to be corrected and by contrasting it with the corrected facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5362	Mr President. My previous speaker, Mr Wöginger, said here that the Greens were by means of junk simulations against the support of the Blue Light organizations in general and the Red Cross organizations in particular. Rather, it is true that we today in the Financial Committee voted in favour of this package, which is now being voted on. – That was actually the correction. I would add that Junktime is allowed in the political field when it comes to not allowing the Ministry of Finance to judge what kind of agenda we should have as parliamentarians. It was only about when what was going on in the Committee. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is not an actual correction!]] – This was only a supplement to the actual correction. The correction has been based on the fact that we have already agreed to this. So you're going to leave with your mammoth tales! We'll know how to defend ourselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5394	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5415	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! I would like to make a brief comment on the Austrian airlines. Without heme, because the situation is really much too serious, I would like to acknowledge that the ÖVP is now fully recognized that there is a lot in the arrogance of management. The ÖVP chief Josef Pröll is now taking patience after the AUA debacle. I think this is really important, because this recognition is at all the prerequisite for a limitation of damage, and this is of course extremely important for the company, for the employees and for the economic location. As far as the request by the BZÖ is concerned, I do not think this is a good idea. Why? – [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's coming anyway!]] In the next few weeks, Mr Westenthaler, all the actors are fully required, they have to make full use of themselves in order to achieve the best possible yet – and I do not think it is really useful when parliamentary deliberations and surveys take place. I know that's a minority right, you can also use 46 signatures. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] – Yes, this is your right, but you have the responsibility, of course. The clear best way to do this is to control the Court of Auditors; a follow-up test would be the right one. In reality – and this is of course true in the case of orders going into the hundreds of millions – it is clear that the Court of Auditors, as an organ of the National Council, then looks at these things in an ex-post test. So I don't think it's a very good idea to deal with the subject of the Standing Subcommittee in the next few weeks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5461	Mr Secretary of State Dr. Matznetter spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5482	Mr President. Mrs Colleague at the Intergovernmental Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! First point: I would like to thank all five political groups for having also adopted the tax-amendment law in this fast passage. It is very important for several areas, and I therefore welcome the fact that it is already on 1st. It shall enter into force on 1 December. Second point: Why are we now bringing in this economic package – the package number one? – Because it is our primary task to ensure that people’s jobs are maintained in the event of an early economic crisis. And that's exactly what we're doing with this package! Because the credit of small and medium-sized enterprises is the basis for them to continue to be able to invest. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen: Last week we decided on a framework of 100 billion liability. But also a billion euros, at least almost 14 billion schillings, is not a packerl, but a good contribution – as I said, a first contribution! – to preserve jobs. This is a good measure, and I invite you all to take this step with us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The last point, which Mr Stadler referred to, was: Of course, there will be conditions in the European equinox. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You didn't want to know anything about conditions now!]] We will prescribe the same kind of liability fees as in the European Union. We will, of course, include conditions regarding profit-making, remuneration and business policy in the provisions. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what I'm looking at!]] Of course, when the state comes in, we will demand that the loans be granted for small and medium-sized enterprises. By the way, you have also agreed to this point in section 2(5) of the Financial Market Stabilisation Act last week. So: All together, we have unanimously adopted this. We don't have to be ashamed, we've been thinking about that. And that, as I mean, is a good law and a good Austrian measure. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] .)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5541	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the 2008 draft economic recovery law, together with the title and receipt in 5 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. It's accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's polyphony. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr Colleagues, on the demand for professionalism rather than Dilettantism in the course of the AUA privatisation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, on the rapid submission of a report on the Austrian banking industry. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on the BZÖ package for the recovery of economic activity and the fight against inflation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on measures to speed up economic recovery. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lichtenecker, ladies and gentlemen, on investments in climate protection measures rather than on millions of injections to the nuclear industry. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to draw attention to the votes. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Themessl, colleagues and colleagues on the discharge of citizens due to the financial crisis. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on the necessary financial support for the population by means of a heating aid from the federal government. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Pilz, colleagues on the moratorium for private (foreign) currency lenders and SME and EPU security package to bridge the consequences of the financial crisis. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller, ladies and gentlemen, on the economic package family. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Insurance Supervision Act, together with the title and receipt in 3 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Finance Act 2008 and the Club Finance Act 1985, together with the title and receipt in 8 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the draft. Taxation Amendment Act 2008 and Title and Entry into 9 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. I shall now vote on the request of Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to give the Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection an audit on the conduct of the examination of ÖIAG and the Austrian airlines in relation to the search for partners or the privatisation of the AUA. I would ask those members who are in favour of the request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[18:54:32]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5821	I am still announcing that Questions 2/J to 27/J were received at today's meeting. [[18:54:40]] Reading of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5843	I would also like to make a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol so that it can be deemed approved at the end of the sitting. This will enable immediate decision-making. I shall therefore proceed in this way and now read the Official Protocol: ‘The agenda items shall be drawn up in accordance with § 44 para. 2 GOG unanimously – with the required two-thirds majority – decided to withdraw from the 24-hour delay of the Committee's reports. There is no objection to the President's proposal to negotiate Agenda items 1 to 4. TO point 1: Financial Committee report on the Government template (5 of the supplements): The Federal Act establishing the Federal Law on the Financing of Tasks of the Austrian Economic Service Society with Limited Liability and the Federal Law on the Refinancing of Activities of the Austrian Economic Service Society with Limited Liability and amending the Austrian Economic Service Act, the Guarantee Act 1977, the SME Funding Act, the Income Tax Act 1988 and the Federal Act approving the justification of further presuppositions by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology (Economic Recovery Act 2008 – KBG 2008) (6 of the Supplements) TO point 2: Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (3 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Insurance Supervision Act (7 of the Supplements) TO point 3: Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 2/A by Mr Otto Pendl, Mr Fritz Neugebauer, Mr Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, Josef Bucher, Dieter Brosz, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Finance Act 2008 and the Club Finance Act 1985 (8 of the supplements) TO point 4: Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (2 of the Supplements): Federal Act, which amends the Income Tax Act 1988, the VAT Act 1994, the Health and Social Aid Act and the Customs-Law Enforcement Act – T 2. Taxation Change Act 2008 (2nd Chamber) Box 2008) (9 of the Supplements) Mr Bucher, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/1 EA). Deputies Mag. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/2 EA. Mr Bucher, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/3 EA). There is a request from Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to carry out an examination by the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors (Annex II). Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the resolution Supplement 1/4 EA, which is set out in the key points. It is in accordance with § 55, para. 3 iVm § 53, para. 4 GOG has reproduction and distribution. Members Dr. Lichtenecker, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/5 EA). Mr Themessl, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/6 EA). Deputies Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/7 EA). Mr Pilz, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/8 EA). Mr Kitzmüller, colleagues, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/9 EA). Votes: To TO point 1: The draft law will be adopted by a majority in the second and third readings in accordance with the Committee's proposal. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/1 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 1/2 EA, is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 1/3 EA, is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/4 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/5 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/6 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/7 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/8 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/9 EA is hereby rejected. To TO point 2: The draft law is adopted unanimously in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 7 of the second and third reading supplements. TO point 3: The draft law is adopted unanimously in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 8 of the second and third reading supplements. To TO point 4: The draft law will be adopted unanimously in the second and third readings, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 9 of the Supplements. The application for Supplement II shall be rejected.’; Are there any objections to the version or content of this Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. The agenda is exhausted. The next meeting of the National Council will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
