ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7447	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! The meeting was opened. The official protocols of the 58. Meeting of 7. ==References====External links== Meeting of 8. In May 2008, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies are reported as prevented by Dobnigg, Hagenhofer, Muchitsch, Prehauser and Duster. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7481	For this meeting, I will present the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll is represented by the Federal Minister for Health, Family and Youth Dr. Andrea Kdolsky. The Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Dr. Erwin Buchinger is represented by the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture Dr. Claudia Schmied. [[09:06:44]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7532	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Stop the energy and fuel increase – fair prices instead of unfair taxes” First of all, Mr Klubobmann Strache. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7559	Madam President. Mr. Bartenstein, Minister of Sprit! [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: “Spritminister?”]] The fact that we have put the current hour under the theme “Stop the energy and fuel growth – fair prices instead of unfair taxes” is happening only for the reason that this federal government is, in this question, spotty, inactive. This federal government is a government that operates nothing but to take off, cash off and burden the citizens. You just have to put that very, very clearly to the point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am also glad that today’s “Austrian red radio” must ensure the transfer of Parliament’s duty. If I've been watching Austrian radio in the last few weeks and months, I have to say: We're experiencing censorship. We experience that the ORF does not comply with its objectivity and commitment. We experience that representatives of the Freedom Party are no longer invited at all in news broadcasts up to discussions such as “in the ZENTRUM” and are no longer present there at all. [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: Unheard!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] This is quite a method that must also be shown, because it also shows that political-ideological action is being carried out in “Austrian red radio”. That should also be seen and addressed once! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance is not here today. He apparently already counts as “Uncle Dagobert” the monetary units of the Austrians, which he can celebrate with more revenue by increasing the price of petrol. You have now come here during your government's clatage and have raised the kilometre money and the penalty in a ridiculous height. This is a plantation and a frying plant, because the citizens feel right. The Minister of Finance has only 760 million € in additional tax revenue by increasing the fuel price, and then you go here and give the citizens of 760 million € more revenue, which you can celebrate through the increase in the price of petrol, only 60 million €. And then you think you'll be partyed! They believe that the citizens are happy! - Well, I'm sure that's not the case. This is a drop on the hot stone – no more and no less. They obviously believe that the problem with sittings will be dealt with by themselves again, that the gasoline itself will be cheaper, that energy prices will fall by themselves again without being opposed. They apparently believe in this miracle that energy prices will travel down again. But the opposite is the case. So I can really just say, This government is an insidious cabinet of prices and how it reacts to them, namely not at all! The citizens are desperate whether price increases are increasing and, in part, they really do not know in and out. So the opposite will be the case: Energy prices will not fall, but they can be expected to continue to rise. Increasing demand and speculation in this area will further increase energy and fuel prices. This is also said by the head of the Wiener Strombörse, who said two days ago in the “Kurier” – I quote him –: “Over the past ten years, the share of investors speculating on rising prices of raw materials from oil to food has increased from a quarter to two thirds worldwide. Over the past five years, the capital, the so-called index fund in the raw material markets, has increased from $13 billion to $260 billion.” – Quotes. Nothing is going to fall – you can go out of it – but you continue to put your hands in the lap inactively. They continue to cash in VAT and mineral oil taxes, thus plunging off the Austrian drivers who are in a situation that can be referred to as a very slow emergency. The need of the Austrians results from price increases in all areas, as well as in the food sector. This is, of course, also a background to why food prices have increased so rapidly, because the fuel prices are so expensive and do not relieve you and continue to tax mineral oil and VAT! That's where you have to say: Where red-black reigns, shamelessly disassembled. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This can be shown by a beautiful example. [[The speaker shall hold an empty green-red petrol canister, on which the heading ‘55% tax’ shall be read.]] When I get a 20-liter petrol canister – this one is empty today – the Minister of Finance collects 55 percent of taxes! 55 per cent of those 20 liters that a citizen has to pay for when he gasses fuel, go to the Minister of Finance! And this is not willing to regulate or relieve these prices. In the Eurosuper, the tax share is 50.64 percent. If you buy a litre of diesel today, you pay 70 cents or over 70 cents to the Minister of Finance. That also explains why there are such high prices. This is actually the Molterer cocktail, the Molterer load cocktail for the Austrian drivers. [[the speaker shall keep the said petrol canister up to date]] We can say that with fug and justice today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And while the Austrian drivers no longer know how to pay their fuel and in the truest sense of the word energy and money go out – and that is so! –, go here and decide to give discharge to the super-rich, namely at the Foundation. Instead of finally easing the smaller and medium-sized citizens in this country, in turn, you only relieve the super-rich! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This shows that you operate social policy in Austria! If this goes on, one could think that the fuel will soon cost as much as the expensive red wines that the Federal Chancellor so much likes to drink. That's the impression, and that's not what it's supposed to be. Caring is becoming more and more a luxury. That's a pure wahnwitz! Many citizens need their car to come to their workplace as a donor. You drive 100 kilometers and more daily and rightly ask yourself the question: Can I even do my job? Is there anything left to me at the end of the wage I spend? Many families depend on the car to bring their children to kindergarten or school. Even on the weekend when they want to make a family trip, families depend on their car. But these families will continue to be shameless by you. It is not just the fuel, it is the energy costs that are rising exorbitantly today and where, with its tax burden, the Minister of Finance also deserves due to the need and suffering of the Austrians in this area. Also last winter, 400 000 Austrians needed heating aid because they could no longer afford heating. And it must be assumed that this figure will not be reduced due to the massive wave of inflation in this area, but will continue to rise in the coming winter. In particular, families, single mothers and pensioners who already have to contend with the price explosion in food will naturally be affected and affected by this energy price increase. Something has to be done for these people! The next winter will certainly come. And I hope you won't put in any short-term pseudo-measures until winter is here and the Austrians suffering from the frost are already affected. It's not from the bright sky. We Liberals have already submitted applications last year in November, where we We have called for clear discharge steps where we have called for a legal counter-tax. These developments were already evident in the previous year. At the time, as a Freedom Party, we called for a regulation to limit the maximum price for fuels to € 1 per litre and to convert the pendulum fee and the traffic withdrawal amount into a fixed amount. That's the right way! This is possible, it is possible for a limited period of time. There is also an official price regulation that you have been advocating to this day. You put your head in the sand. You burden the citizens, you tax pensioners, you are currently driving over the medical profession, want to know the cheapest medicine instead of the best possible for patients ordered! They are acting irresponsibly in all these areas today. There needs to be a change: A rapid aid to citizens, the halving of VAT, is also announced to reduce the tax on mineral oil, and if it does not go any differently, even temporarily a reduction in the tax on mineral oil. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There must be no bans on thinking here! And that is why it is also necessary to think about the state price regulation. That can't be a taboo. Fair prices instead of unfair taxes are a command of the hour. Finally, I say: The price and cost increase we are experiencing today feeds up their wages to the citizens. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion by saying: You from the government are in that case the ice-cold profiters! You cash – and the need of the Austrians is indifferent to you! It must be concluded that social responsibility for Austria must be lived!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7700	Mr Bartenstein spoke on a preliminary opinion. Mr Federal Minister, you are speaking. Also your versions should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7722	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It has already been noted that this canister is red-green and not about red-black. [[Abg. Strache:... can no longer afford to tank!]] A symbolism will be meant by this, Mr. Klubobmann! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, in one Mr Klubobmann Strache is absolutely right: Energy prices have, at last, increased sharply. We all know that it will tend to go up in the medium and long term, even if the price for the essential North Sea oil for us – today: Brent – in the last few days a little has fallen: from 130 dollars per barrel to 122 dollars. But that's still well over 100 dollars. We must therefore assume that the trend is continuing in the long term and must respond properly to this situation, but not with populism, not with actionism, but with a reasonable energy policy, which is also sustainable and ecologically oriented, Mr Klubobmann Strache! The Federal Government has not been able to understand any understanding of the care and trouble of many drivers who do not understand this. [[Abg. That's what we're missing!]] This will also be used by you in good time. We have therefore – not yesterday, you are mistaken, but it has been long since, but it has been decided in the Committee on Finance yesterday – decided very quickly and specifically to increase the rate of commuting and also to increase the amount of official mileage. [[Abg. That's a lot too little! That's the frying!]] An increase in official mileage by 12 percent, from 38 cents to 42 cents: This does not sound so much, but, Mr Klubobmann, the mileage in Austria is higher than in Germany – 30 cents compared to 42 cents – and it is not that this kilometers money is used exclusively for spray, but that up to now and in the past about 8 cents of 38 cents were intended for fuel costs and with this increase by 4 cents we actually correspond to a 50 percent price increase in diesel. [[Abg. Scheibner: But we have nothing of that!]] [[Abg. Street: Our citizens can't buy anything of it!]] So, both the increase in the kilometre and the increase in the pendler's fee are accurate and quite more than a drop on the hot stone, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You're talking about this 60 million so little, Mr. Klubobmann. [[Abg. Street: 760 million more revenue!]] In fact, it is €360 million that we have been burdening the low incomes in this country over the last few weeks. A reduction of €300 million in unemployment insurance contributions for low incomes, i.e. up to €1 350 per month, can already be seen. [[Abg. Street: But 760 million more revenue only about the spray price!]] A discharge of €300 to €400 per year for low-income people who are particularly affected by inflation, which is really worryingly high – this is a great policy for people who have not so easily come out with their incomes, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You really believe the fan mile is for you...!]] Fact number one: Energy prices are rising strongly. We have to expect this to go on. But we will also try to react accordingly in the future, especially where people depend on their car, professional drivers and/or even commuters. Fact number two: In contrast to the years before, we in Austria are better than the average in terms of net gas station price than in European terms – this will be overlooked. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No one can buy anything from that!]] We were over years and decades above the European section, 40 groschen then called it, a gentleman's agreement. The net gas station prices, i.e. what oil companies demand and earn at the gas stations, are – per litre – at Eurosuper by 1.5 cent and at Diesel by 1.6 cents below the European average. Looks like: Yes, the competition authority is doing a comprehensive industry investigation, the most comprehensive that ever existed. If market abuse behaviour is detected here, the strictest is to be prosecuted. But from the principle we are better than the environment. What the prices actually the drivers have to pay, my very dear Ladies and gentlemen: They're high, they're too high! We're not happy about it. But let’s get newspapers from yesterday, for example, the “Kurier ” of 4th century. June, in which it reads: “In many countries of the EU, drinking is more expensive than in Austria”. Austria is below the European average, in the lower middle. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Strache and Mr Ing. Westenthaler.]] In the “standard” of yesterday – VCÖ data, ladies and gentlemen, these are: “Dreaked holiday delights”, “Sprit abroad even more expensive than in Austria.” [[Abg. Strache: This is now a Global Abskasser argument!]] In this way, we can say Austrian drivers: You're not going to be rocked off. It is always cheaper in Austria than especially in neighbouring countries. What the mineral oil tax is going on: Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition and, above all, of the FPÖ, you don't have to believe me, you won't believe me either, but believe Mrs Schratzenstaller of the Wifo, who rightly said on Sunday in the ORF that the Minister of Finance had to expect a sinking mineral oil tax over years. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where, please?]] With a falling mineral oil tax, not with an increasing one! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, when we compare the mineral oil tax rates, we see that Austria, for example, is significantly below countries such as Germany. In Austria we have 47.5 cents per litre, in Germany it is inclusive of eco tax, dear Professor Van der Bellen, 65.5 cents – that is almost 20 cents difference in tax burden per litre – in Italy it is 56.4 cents and so on. What is happening to diesel is similar to the differences. Austria tends to be one of the low-tax countries and not the high-tax countries, including the tax revenue. Mrs Schratzenstaller has also made it clear to you on the sales tax, Mr Strache, that sales tax revenue is not currently rising. [[Abg. Scheibner: Because people are less...!]] It may already be that the title of fuel brings in more sales tax, but overall, the Minister of Finance tends to expect stagnant sales tax revenue rather than rising. [[Abg. Strache: Because the purchasing power is no longer there! You're not willing to give the citizen money again!]] Mr Strache, you do not even give a clear reason for who should pay any relief in respect of the mineral oil tax! Who should pay the 3.5 billion to 4 billion € tax loss? You, Mr. Strache, certainly not! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: You have more revenue! The government has record income in payroll tax! 8 billion € Record revenue!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the car clubs are also very critical in these days, which is part of their business, but I can only tell you that the car clubs will also be calling on Austrian drivers to drink in Austria very quickly in the next few weeks. It's too expensive here, it's more expensive here than we want, but it's still much less expensive than in neighbouring countries, especially in Germany and Italy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is right that such a debate should also appeal to the countries, the word heating aid, the word 'pendler aid', which is national, and there are some countries that are exemplary on the road, and others, I think, should follow. It is also true that we are expressing our views on speculation and speculation measures. At the last meeting of the European Finance Ministers, the Minister of Finance has deposited the Austrian proposal to think about a speculation tax. At European level, this is at least technically feasible, but not easy, because of course you also have to give airlines and others the opportunity to secure their fuel price risks far away, to hedge them; that is, if you want to, a kind of speculation. We'll try what's possible, and we'll go this way consistently. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the international energy price development is certainly still pointing upward. In the discussion of the last few days and weeks, I have missed votes from the Greens, which are otherwise always for higher taxes on fuels. [[Abg. Strache: They want 2 € per litre!]] Where is your vote, Madam President Glavischnig, to increase taxes, eco-taxes? You don't talk about that in a phase like this, that probably wouldn't be opportunistic either. In this way, it is a sustainable policy that this Federal Government operates and which always refers to the fact that energy prices also rise, that people are very burdened by the cost of petrol and diesel. It is the better to promote the right policy instead of in the short term adventurous eco-tax models. Ladies and gentlemen! Increases in the fees and kilometres are the right measures at the right time, as are the relief in terms of unemployment insurance contributions for low incomes. We are, in part, clearly below the EU average for both net prices and gross prices in terms of petrol and diesel, so we can point out that it is too expensive, but still not as expensive as abroad. And in this way we will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e7991	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers according to § 57a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Jarolim has now come to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8016	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is relatively undisputed that the fuel price situation in Austria is totally unsatisfying. It is not only the individual people, the individual households under it, but also the industry and thus economic growth. I think that we are really invited here – this can be a common project, ladies and gentlemen – to oppose. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Yesterday, we decided to increase the penalty by 15 percent, to 1,614 and 2 900 respectively, and to increase the amount of money by 12 percent. These are, of course, measures to help people commuting to the workplace. I mean, that's efficient help. [[Abg. Strache: That's a frying egg!]] However, regardless of why the price is actually so high and whether the market mechanism works in the oil industry as a whole. The discussion is now often based on whether the turnover tax, which is always 20 percent, is to be reduced. But what is the point, what is the amount on which VAT is charged? Ladies and gentlemen! In the last discussion in the “ZENTRUM” programme, we have heard the argument that prices are so high, because of the so-called Rotterdam market. The competition authority conducts investigations in this area, and I hope that it will examine it accordingly and really look at everything, including the price calculation of the entire oil industry. It is true that the mineral oil industry – this applies to all companies; this applies to an Austrian group as well as to Exxon, Shell and Mobile, for all – generally to about 95 percent at a price of 20 US dollars per barrel covered with oil, about 95 percent. A very small amount – and I think it is important that you undress this once, namely this mystification of the Rotterdam market – about 5 percent – which are the short-term quantities needed – is purchased on the Rotterdam market, and that there is about 80 US dollars. That is, we have 95 percent to 20 US dollars and 5 percent to 80 US dollars, and this 80 dollars per barrel for this very small amount is used to argue that the entire price should be so high. This will achieve something that none of us understand, namely a significant increase in profits in the oil industry. – I say this again: It is not a specific feature of the Austrian oil industry, but of the world. This will achieve profit figures – that is probably not to be seen well – which develop completely removed from the economy, ladies and gentlemen, and there you have to put on, there you have to look at what has happened. [[the speaker shows a graphic]] The German Federal Cartel Office has made the decision and said that the oil industry in Germany should be considered as an entire market concentration. That is, it is found there that this is a cartel-like complex. And if this is determined, one can no longer choose the price itself – and this is the protection standards of the European antitrust law – but the price must be linked to the costs. And when the price is linked to the cost, it can no longer be that the 80 US dollars for the 5 percent oil is the calculation size for the gas stations and for all of us, but then there has to be an average bill. We can assume that the price will certainly be reduced by at least 20 to 30 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, the competition authority – Mr Bartenstein, I can really ask you here and support you in this matter – is to be upgraded, can be prepared in a material and content manner, and has to do with the appropriate bite. And if that is not enough, we are called upon to involve the European Competition Commission accordingly, at least through the European Parliament. We can't let that happen. It is totally pointless if we are now holding a debate on things that do not concern the benchmark and do not take account of price calculation in the oil industry. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look closely at the prices here, let us see that the competition authority is indeed an disclosure that it achieves transparency, and let us point out that Austria cannot be extorted that Europe cannot be extorted. However, we must not work with emotions, but rather with expertise, with arguments. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8078	Mrs Tamandel's next speech. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8099	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that Mr Jarolim has now brought this to an objective level, because Mr. Strache has, of course, brought us back in the way he used to do, populistly, that, in reality, the opposition – especially the FPÖ – is only about blaming the government for it to blow off. I am just wondering, Mr Strache, what you mean by 'debunking', because if the government or the state takes more taxes, that means that the state can also spend more on projects, on social issues, on climate protection and on cetera. [[Abg. Street: As much cashier as never before!]] [[Abg. Strache: Give the money back to the citizens! Don't blow up the administration device!]] – So stay on the ground of the facts! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Strache, we are very likely to give something back to the citizen: We decided yesterday to increase the penalty. We decided yesterday to increase the amount of km money – it was long called on to go up from 38 cents to 42 cents at the time of the kilometre, because it is of course important to us for people who need the car to exercise their profession or if they are commuters. [[Abg. That's too little! Too little!]] The Greens, in particular Mr Rossmann, always argues here, that the Pendler PAUSHAL is a favour for the separation policy. I can't agree. Of course, in the rural regions there are people who depend on the car – and here we are reacting! We are not inactive – we react exactly where it is necessary for people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It can't live everyone in the city, it can't change everyone to public transport, and we also know quite well that even in the agglomerations, even in the city, even in Vienna, it's not always possible to use public transport, whether it's not working with the interval, because you can't go to the city border because you just have a job in the trade, where you work on the green meadow, where no public transport is going. We have responded with the increase in the penalty rate, and we do not let that make us worse. Take over the government responsibility, then you will see what you can shape for people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Pendler's fee is 60 million! Of 760 million more revenue, 60 million are returned, and the other 700 million is the Minister of Finance! That's not fair! 700 million in addition!]] The Minister of Finance is not involved at all. Stay with the truth! The Minister of Finance manages the taxes to give people something back. People who benefit from shuttle fees and kilometres of money will receive almost €60 million back from the tax pot because they are tax-deburdened by this measure. [[Abg. This is more revenue that has not even been taken into account in the budget!]] As to what you have brought here today as a round-up – you have come from the health reform to the foundations to the pendulums and the gasoline price – I must say honestly to you: [[Abg. Strache: Because you're going everywhere!]] If you think the citizens don't know what it's all about, then sell the citizens for stupid. [[Abg. They know exactly what it's all about!]] The citizens know very well that many things simply cannot be regulated by Austria alone, for example the Clubobmann Schüssel's initiative on speculation tax, for example for raw materials and so on. [[Abg. Strache: Don't always put the blame on the European Union, act here! This government is supposed to act!]] This is a good initiative, we will, they will bring forward the government leaders, but at European level and not at home in the Chamber, Mr Strache! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Your own clubman doesn't listen to you at all! He's not here at all! Why don't you guys listen to Klubobmann? This is probably not so important as you say!]] Madam President, perhaps I could speak, I do not think that the spectators are interested in this by Mr Westenthal. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] On your request, Mr. Strache, to reduce the VAT: Do you seriously believe that the companies would then reduce the turnover tax if it were possible to reduce it – at European level it is not because there is no reduced turnover tax on fuels; but suppose we would do so – to pass it on? The design of prices is quite different. You'd say the price would be gross and so high, and then go down. How about the drink tax? [[Abg. Strache: You must also remember a price regulation! That is why we have price regulation!]] I think you're far too short-sighted about this thing. They should think about how they can seriously relieve people. The government is thinking about this – and it is not picking up! It is only necessary to consider – you have spoken of higher tax revenue in this area – that the mineral oil tax is liter- and not price-dependent. If you were to see this whole serious and the population would not constantly scatter sand into the eyes, then it would be quite easy, then you could also conduct serious policy with you. [[Abg. That's what you're doing, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] But at the end – okay. [[Calls: Off]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8336	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Van der Bellen. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8357	Madam President. Mr Strache, we are talking about targeted assistance for the people who are particularly affected. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These are, of course, the counterparts that depend on the private car, which have no alternative in public transport and public regional transport. It was really a sign of how the EIA has tried in recent weeks to link measures in the Pendler area with further tax privileges for the top ten thousand. That's really unheard of! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I mean the further privileges in the tax system – we will be able to discuss them in detail tomorrow. Secondly, Expansion of local transport, regional transport – yes, of course! Austria has been slowing down here for decades – no matter how the Federal Government looks whether the Minister is a black or a redr in the transport sector; most of the time it was a redr. Billions of people are put in crazy railway tunnels and the like, which only serve long-distance traffic, but in local transport, in regional transport, it's in the back and in the front. Yes, something has to happen! Thirdly, Any help for the changeover to fuel-saving cars! – The NOVA, i.e. the standard excise duty, which was decided here in Parliament, is in no way sufficient. [[Abg. Let's go!]] Sprit saving cars need to be much more favoured here than the big eaters. [[Abg. Stache: Or abolish!]] This is also a challenge for the European automotive industry, as the Japanese – particularly Toyota and Honda – are still in the foreground in the downturn in cars. But, Mr Strache What is well meant is very often the opposite of good. [[Abg. Bitch: “But ”! You want 2 € per litre!]] If we turn to taxes here – whether VAT or mineral oil tax is indifferent – the mineral oil tax on diesel and petrol is significantly reduced, do you know who the ice-cold profiters of this measure will be in the medium term? - No, I don't. [[Call the FPÖ:The citizens!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Call:The Sheikhs]] It's the Sheikhs! The mineral oil companies and the sheikhs from which we obtain the oil! [[Abg. Street: The Sheikhs of the Federal Government!]] You have to deal with supply and demand in this market. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you today significantly lower mineral oil tax, Mr. Stache – which is not that difficult to understand – then stimulate the demand for diesel and petrol – with relatively constant supply on this market; in the economic jargon: in the case of unelastic supply. What happens if you stimulate demand on an unelastic offer? - The price is rising! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is this a lecture now?]] They enable Sheikh – and from me some oil companies – to demand even higher prices by reducing the tax on mineral oil. You won't want to. [[Abg. Strache: This will not be the case in Austria! That's nonsense!]] We currently spend around €6 billion a year in Austria alone for the import of oil; for the fossils as a whole – including gas in particular – about €12 billion. This would be even more expensive with the procedure you have proposed, especially if it is at European level and if the EU as a whole takes such measures. [[Abg. Strache: That's why you demand 2 € per litre!]] That's going to go back! We need to reduce demand, not stimulate it! In the industrialized countries, it is already such – 2005, 2006, 2007 – that oil demand is declining. However, this is overcompensated by certain emerging countries. And you know what they are doing – Malaysia, India, to some extent even China – why there is still an increase in demand for fuels? - Because they do exactly what you want: They subsidize the oil demand! [[Call the FPÖ: Shit!]] Malaysia spends around 7 percent of GDP on subsidies for oil demand – this is a mistake! –, India 2 to 3 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: 1.3 billion Chinese emancipate themselves quite simply!]] [[Abg. Strache: This is the development in these countries!]] – We will certainly not repeat and copy this mistake in Europe, which is economic nonsense. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Street: Malaysia turns from bike to car! This is the only development background!]] But again: Yes, for the help of commuters who need it, for those who are not reasonable for public transport, because there is very often no such thing. Yes to expand local and regional transport by bus and train – of course. And yes, to changeover aids to fuel-saving cars. But no to a nonsensical tax policy measure, as you suggest!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8590	Now comes Mr Mag. Houses to speak. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8613	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! What I have heard so far is evidence of pure courage – heartlessness, because one is unable to finally relieve the population, which is so heavily burdened, immediately. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Given the remarks of the Greens, as I heard them again today, I must say: Dear Professor, you are always taking the second step before the first! Now we have changed to diesel cars in Austria, and what are you proposing? – No discharge when refuelling, when heating, because you want to miss out on this first important step immediately. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Please, it's in the back and in the front today! Now belongs to a discharge! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is not possible to convert our cars, our heaters, our oil heaters from today to tomorrow all to renewable energy sources – what you require because you reject support in the current situation. That is precisely the misjudgment of your policy. The people get it in the back and in the front! I was on my way for days now, for weeks in Tyrol. Mr Bartenstein, of your political blessings, which you have spoken of today, people feel nothing. You, Minister, are refusing reality! Do you remember, as I pointed out here in Parliament a year ago in this House, that people are right to regret that each second says that the wallets are empty as never before? [[Abg. Scheibner: But they weren't you!]] This was already revealed by the media a year ago, and this was also addressed by us, by the FPÖ. [[the speaker holds the front page of an issue of the “Small Newspaper” with the headline “Money bags empty as never before:...”]] But what did you do? – They were sitting behind me like today and have smiled mildly about the FPÖ, about me, according to the motto: Yeah, what's he got again, the houser?, what's he talking about, please? – You lack any sensitivity! Only: The follow-up article on this article of the “Small Newspaper” of a year ago, in which it was rightly stated that income is not sufficient for weitems, showed the condition you represent: The managers could double the gagen in the last five years! – This is your policy, Minister Bartenstein! [[The speaker keeps the front page of a further issue of the “Small Newspaper” with the headline “Managers could double the gages in 5 years”.]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have a division here – a division between the poor and the rich. And this gap between the poor and the rich is getting bigger and bigger! A year ago, the "Tyrol daily" entitled that there are already 100,000 Tyroleans who are vulnerable to poverty. Unfortunately, I have to say that this number has now increased significantly. I've been on my way for days and weeks and I've seen: The population is really bad! – There are no reactions on your part. And it is worrying that even 25 000 Tyroleans, despite work, do not get out with their incomes and live many people on the verge of poverty. I mentioned this a year ago and said: Please, boost the consumption! Reduce the prices for all the goods that the population needs day by day! [[Abg. Street: The purchasing power!]] – It has already been noted a year ago that the prices of basic food have been very much exploded. They have also lured us into the European Union with the argument that we must enter so that life will become cheaper by 1 000 S – that is what was promised at the time. [[Abg. Street: Monthly!]] Do you know how the situation looks? – I say it again to you: If you convert this today, then an extra sausage cream now costs 30 S, a sprayed apple juice 35.70 S, a freshly pressed orange juice 55 S and so on. - Who can afford this, Mr. Minister?- Oh, my God! Many families – even this was held – are not even able to afford a holiday. Last year, 15 percent fewer families have even been able to afford a holiday. What have we done, Minister? We have rightly demanded at the right time that you finally give back to the people the money you had previously drawn out of their pocket! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the first quarter of this year you have additional income, i.e. not budgeted revenue, of € 816 million, please! Make an immediate tax reform! Give back to the population the money you have now taken out of the bags, so that the population with the income it has comes out again. That is urgently necessary! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say: If you continue to do so, you will rightly be given a detour by the citizens. And we say social activities instead of continuing to cash! [[The speaker holds a sign with the same text in height]] Electoral Day is Payday! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I call for the support of the liberal demands.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8747	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8768	Minister! Madam President. If you, Mr Minister, and the representatives of the government parties are heard in this way, you will be told: All right, super! In the international comparison, Austria is at the top! And now the pendlers are relieved! Everything's great! You have the impression that people cheer at you, everything is perfect, this government works really great. - You're exploring something, Minister. I really have the impression that you yourself believe that these fan zones, which are now being built in Austria, are set up for the government to honour them. No, they are for the EURO, Mr Minister, not for you, because people do not honor you, but turn away from your policy of driving prices and disposing. That's the truth! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] From EURO: In two days the EURO begins, and the Austrians no longer have a euro in their pocket. – That’s the truth! You're still cashing off! The Minister of Finance, the Federal Chancellor, the two oil sheikhs in the Austrian Federal Government, Willi Al Abkassier and Alfred El Unsocial, have sat down and are simply paying off! They cash off with energy, food, medication, living. And in the case of petrol, taxes are now massively increased. 750 million € More revenue – and you return only 60 million. That means, the commuters have 700 to 1 000 € more of the load on the spray a year – and you just return 30, 40 €. And that's what you put on your flags, and that's great? – No, that’s a failure on all lines! They leave the People fail! – That is what this government is doing, which is unsocial and in fact has no heart for people. At the same time – decided yesterday in the Financial Committee, tomorrow in the plenary session – you will make the ‘Euro million game’: While all people are being burdened, relieve the super-rich! According to the motto of the euro-million game: “Become richer than rich!” now halve the entrance tax rate at the foundations. Congratulations, social democracy – very serious faces –: You have the responsibility to ensure that people in this country can no longer afford the food, the driving, the living – and for that you will relieve the super-rich at the foundations! Congratulations! This is a “social democracy”, which is a “social policy”! – Generate You're for it! I would recommend this to you from Social Democracy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So if you come and say, We'll relieve the commuters, then I'll tell you the following: Pendants will not be relieved, they will continue to be taxed. But you've completely forgotten someone: What about the families, Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs? What about the mother who is forced to use the car in the country because she has to bring her child to the kindergarten? What about the mother who has to go shopping by car to the doctor who has to drive to the bank because she has no other option? She doesn't see a flat rate, she doesn't see any kilometers of money that pays the full price! - And that's unsocial! That's a hardness that can't be accepted! We therefore call for a tax reduction, which is urgently necessary, on mineral oil tax and on VAT. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I give you a recommendation: Orient yourself once again at the Federal Republic of Carinthia! Where the BZÖ reigns, it's just better for people. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with FPÖ and greens.]] - Ah, now's the reaction. – I tell you the following: Tuesday is at the government meeting in Carinthia – and because Mr. Collegue is just so down: on the initiative of the head of the state of Carinthia!; listen carefully! – unanimously, together with the votes of the Carinthian ÖVP and with the votes of the Carinthian SPÖ, a tank fee has been decided for each donor, a single payment of up to €100, and also a resolution calling on the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Government to impose an official price stop, second to lower the mineral oil tax and third to withdraw the tax increase on fuel oil. – Decide with the voices of the Blacks and the Reds in Carinthia! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What's your applause for, Minister of Economic Affairs? Take this seriously! A whole federal state has decided to: Take this seriously and don't talk about populism! This is a government decision, this is serious to take, and we demand that you also implement it and that you finally do something against the oil multis. In the first quarter, the OMC has gained 795 million – a plus of 55 percent. And what happens? – Prices are further increased! You have the opportunity to intervene here via your ÖIAG share. Call a gas price summit, and take these gentlemen to the chest, so that they don't waste constantly and don't pass on anything to the drivers, but continue to burden them! That's your job, too. That means: Down with the mineral oil tax, down with VAT, set a maximum price – there is in Luxembourg: € 1.26 currently; there is the maximum price and must not be exceeded – and You're finally entering this gas price summit! What you're doing today or decide to do here tomorrow – give the comrades a little bit, 30, 40 € back – that's ridiculous, that's Not acceptable! There must be a genuinely sustainable discharge of Austrian drivers in the interests of mobility, but also in the interests of a social state. We demand this, the BZÖ, of you, and you should also do it – and not put any alibiactions that ultimately do not bring anything to anyone.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8873	Next come Mrs Fleckl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e8895	Madam President. Minister! High house! It is noted that we are in a campaigning phase, and I am really sorry that a topic, a problem that really affects people, is used for platites and is not taken seriously to the extent that it would have deserved it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: It is really a pity that the government does not take this seriously! It is really a pity that the government does not take this problem seriously!]] Yes, it is a pity, Mr Klubobmann, that you – exactly you! – use a theme for your plattites without really making any proposals, just for the purpose of criticizing. [[Abg. Strache: So you haven't heard the proposals today! You were out there!]] The price for diesel is at record level. If someone had told me 10 years ago that the diesel price would rise to almost 20 s, I would have shook my head and said: [[Abg. Straight: Green demand!]] There can't be that! – Today we are faced with this fact. The rapid rise in fuel prices has reached a level for many people that faces massive problems, financial problems. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, yes, I give you the right to act here urgently. And it is done! ==References== It has already been traded for the third time in this legislative period. [[Abg. Scheibner: But that's little,...!]] I would like you to acknowledge this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In Austria, there are about 1.8 million commuters who depend on their vehicle every day and could hardly reach their workplace because they have no or hardly any alternative means of transport available. [[Abg. They think about whether to continue work at all or to be out of work at all! There's nothing left to them!]] They're forced to use the car. This is now a financial challenge – yes, I am right in giving you – and it needs to be helped quickly and directly where help is needed. I am glad that with this first step there is a discharge of 15 per cent in the increase of the flat rate and 12 per cent in the amount of kilometre and 1 per cent. July will help those people who need it, namely, the pendlers. But I am also convinced that this measure alone is not done. The Federal Chancellor, the Federal Government has already announced [[Abg. Scheibner: They're all gone anyway!]] At EU level too, action must be taken! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now the Minister is gone too!]] A tax on speculation with raw materials is an important step in the right direction. If you were to call a little less in between, Mr. Engineer, you might not have slept for the last one and a half years and knew that there had been three trades for the commuters. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call: These are loud records, loud words.]] We also believe that it should not be necessary for people to take part in an existential valley trip through the mountain trip of energy prices. I am therefore glad that those responsible in the Federal Government are working to ensure that this does not happen. [[Abg. Strache: That the foundations were relieved yesterday!]] Now, of course, you can lean back and criticize for criticism – on the one hand, because the campaign is election, on the other hand, because you are simply opposition, or perhaps for another reason: because you simply believe that, no matter what this federal government does, everything is too little. [[Abg. Straight: Apply demands, don't talk about them!]] You can do that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's what the woman Burgstaller says!]] But you can also try and make yourself here and bring real content, Mr. Klubobmann! I would really have liked you to have more than the election panel. [[Abg. You didn't listen to that, gal? That's where you got your ears today! – Relieving citizens! Citizens relieve and do not fight around and produce chaos!]] The only interest you have: to congratulate voters on this important topic. – Shame, Mr Klubobmann! It's really a shame. In principle, mobility needs to be rethinked. It is necessary to take alternative transport seriously and network the offers in such a way that they are also made usable. I would like to see all those responsible – EU and also countries, communities and transport associations – working together, working with us to create a complete network of public transport, to promote transport communities, to work all these things together with us, and not to work against each other as you do in most cases. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Nuclear oil instead of diesel oil!]] [[Abg. Strache: Now you have to relieve people of energy costs!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm glad to see this increase in the flat rate, I'm glad to see the increase in the kilometre. I congratulate the Federal Government on doing this for the third time in this legislative period, and I wish you would bring less flattites and more content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9128	Mrs Fuhrmann's next speech. Speaking time: also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9149	Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, you said earlier that you should take an example of Carinthia because we are now distributing gas vouchers. – I mean, this is a pretty good plantation: In particular, your country captain has increased all country taxes last year, increased electricity prices – in order to stand up now and distribute tank vouchers. It's moral to refuse! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You should learn what a sausage cream costs!]] And the citizens can't be planted either; they will recognize that even in Carinthia. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to dispel and correct another prejudice here, because it is often colported that the Minister of Finance and the Federal Government would benefit from rising fuel prices. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If you don't know what sausages cost, you don't have to get upset! 10 Deca extra sausage – what does it cost?]] That too is totally nonsense, and that must be correct. If the mineral oil tax is on the one hand and the mineral oil prices on the other, I have to say: These are completely different values, which are also not in a context and cannot be interpreted in this way. Mineral oil tax measures the amount of fuel sold and is a fixed amount. And the rise in fuel prices is therefore – that is logically – not at all leading to higher tax revenue. On the contrary! If there is a economical consumption, there may even be fewer revenue. That is, to say, mineral oil taxes and oil prices are in a context and the Minister of Finance benefits from it, that is pure populism. Above all, I would like to inform our spectators and the people at the visitor gallery. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Do you deny that the Minister of Finance has more tax revenue? That's not true.]] Not only do we have the problem of rising raw materials and oil prices in Austria, but the challenge is global, we must deal with at European level and we also have various causes, such as the fall in stocks in the USA and speculations that have been addressed several times. The more demand increases, the higher prices will climb up. These are expert opinions that we must certainly take seriously. I think it is a right way to tackle this, to think about a speculation tax and the measurement of raw materials, at European level, as was proposed by our Clubobmann and our vice chancellor. I believe that we must definitely look at the border of the plate, but we must not forget to get under the arms as quickly as possible to the citizens of Austria. And with the increase of the amount of kilometre money and with the increase of the penalty, that is exactly what happened. This concerns mainly those people, especially young people who live in rural regions who do not have the opportunity to use public transport that depends on their cars to get to the teaching centre or to the workplace. And for this one, this is a great relief. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Moreover, it is a discharge for a total of 800,000 people, and that is not to be underestimated in Austria. I also think that the people concerned are very much aware of this. We're not going to let you do that. Apart from that, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, I am surprised that you are in favour of a state price regulation. I think that the opposite would be more effective, namely competition, the promotion of competition. Check the prices at the different gas stations! There are up to 20 cents of price differences; this must be put in the foreground to also advertise where you can really buy cheaply. Because only competition stimulates the economy, and not state price regulation. Just you should know that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is what the ÖVP Carinthia sees completely different!]] I think it's for the first time. In July, the penalty amounted to 441 € and the increase of the kilometre money from 0.37 € to 0.42 € are the right way. This must be put in the foreground. [[Abg. Street: Last year everything became more expensive, nothing cheaper!]] I would ask you, in conclusion, to negotiate at European level and to be active here.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9278	Next, Mrs. Dr. Moser will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9299	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here and at home! One thing, I think, has become quite clear through this debate here: We need to get out of the oil price trap. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is no longer the case that every day only at the fuel, € 10 million of Austrian funds flow into the cash registers of the Sheikhs or into the accounts of the corporations. We simply need to change our mobility and also our heating systems. [[Abg. Scheibner: You drive yourself!]] Look at this! [[The speaker keeps up to date a newspaper article with the headline “Exploding Energy Prices”.]] I have now taken this graphic back from the weekend: ‘Exploding energy prices’ means: – Please, that’s not something that comes from today to tomorrow! We know the oil price has quadrupled over the last three years. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] What you are doing, both with your populist tax reduction policy and with your punctual support policy, is further driving people into this oil price fall. And that's where we say no! We have to go another way. We need room heat from new sources, we need better thermal insulation. We must finally, Mr Minister, you have the competence to reform the construction regulations throughout Austria. [[Abg. That's what's helping the drivers?- Oh, my God!]] And we finally have to put housing promotion into the renovation so that people are no longer dependent on heating costs. But what are you doing in the federal states, the ÖVP as well as the SPÖ? – Garage promotion with funds that help people actually have less heating costs, so promote garages and build golf courses. Secondly, we must also put mobility on completely new legs. It makes no sense, it has no sense at all to further strengthen the dependence of the people on the Sheikhs or on the oil companies through any subsidy policy. What you're doing is to strengthen this dependence. I am in favour of becoming independent that we are on our own mobility legs. And I know that goes, I can show you from examples. Go to the Technical Museum! There you can see the car that the commuters urgently need. There stands a Renault Clio, which was produced in 1996, with electric drive. 14 square meters of solar panels are sufficient for 10,000 kilometers of electric drive in this car. Look at this! That's what we need. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But what does Pröll do? – Pröll operates at European level for the European car industry, which brings our counterparts into a higher spray price trap, because the production of the cars is not to be reduced towards fuel consumption, but is still to stagnate at 140 grams of CO2 per kilometer. This is the wrong policy. I would like to say a second positive example. Go to the Technical Museum and look at it in the exhibition of “climate:aktiv” that the most energy-efficient form of mobility, the movement is the bicycle. [[The speaker presents a green cardboard box on which a black wire bicycle is mounted, in front of itself on the speaker's desk.]] You know – I brought you an extra small model now – that 50 percent of people's roads with their car are less than 5 kilometres away. [[Abg. Now we're going to Vorarlberg.]] Please, this is a distance – 50 percent of the roads are less than five kilometres – where I invite every person to change to either public transport or bicycle. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Did you ride the bike today?]] I know it's not often because of the terrain. But public transport is finally to be expanded. And my colleague has already pointed out: We have such a misunderstanding, Minister Bartenstein! We have on the one hand 10 million € for new public transport, for new offers at the “open” – 10 million €. And on the other hand, every year we have €1.3 billion for road construction, motorway construction, for an infrastructure that takes the people away from the workplace on the doorstep, forces them to commute, makes them dependent on the oil price, makes them dependent on the Sheikhs and the corporations. [[Abg. May. Darmann: The economy needs infrastructure!]] You must finally understand that there is a constructive path where mobility, where heating, living is finally social, solar and future-looking. And that's our way! We finally have to go – whether in the space-heat area or in the mobility area: away from the dependency, to the energy-political energy-turn-on model, where we stand on our own legs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9428	Mr Kickl has now come to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9450	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I really like to go to the museum and look at all of this. But I also like to go in front of the house and look at all of this. And I now address the question to the ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group, who indeed does not have a car for all of them. Please show me! All hands would have to shoot up like that, after what I heard. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Three Green MEPs raise their hands.]] [[Abg. So three!]] – That is exactly the point where you can say that it is a hypocritical policy that is being pursued by you in many areas. A few words to Professor Van der Bellen: I have read with great interest in an interview that you no longer drive with your alpha, but have resigned the alpha and are now driving a hybrid car. You have already made neat product placement today and called the corresponding company. That's why I have to say that you can clearly afford it, because this car – that is what you say yourself in this interview – is a sponsor gift or is sponsored. [[Call FPÖ and BZÖ:Ah so!]] But in this happy situation, the mass of the Austrians is not, because whoever wants to ride hybrid must be liquid. I've been looking at this once: The car, which is in this particular case with you, costs €29 000 in the new purchase. That's a pretty proud price. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who pays this?]] But that's the cheapest equipment in this car. I'll tell you: The Austrians do not have as long a ceiling as those you can stretch on, but the ceiling is much shorter. It is then a question of having to focus on the used car market and get onto any cars that can be afforded, which naturally have a larger CO2 emissions and are also burdened accordingly. People are asked to check out, they're not in such a privileged position as you are. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As far as the ladies and gentlemen of the government groups and the Federal Minister are concerned, they sometimes feel that they are moving somewhere in a parallel universe, where they have their own rules of thought and have their own logic. We have already experienced in many cases that things happen that are far away from reality. There's been a pension increase. And after this casting builder/molder logic of the pension increase, a pension increase is given if you can buy less for this pension after the increase than before. That is the logic of this parallel universe, in which you also move at fuel prices! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Now I'm gonna tell you something, because we're just talking about the pensioners: The pensioners, who do not belong to the privileged social groups of this federal government, have nothing at all from the pendulum fee and from the kilometre money. But they also drive by car. That means you forgot about this target group once again. Ladies and gentlemen! We find this strange cast builder/molder logic now also in the area of the large announced discharge package at the spray price. If in three months you take away the drivers, who already feed 12 billion € over the various ways in the budget pot, only through the mineral oil tax, take away 661 million € and then don't even return 61 million, but only 60 million of them, then you call this a discharge for the drivers. – This is a frog and a plant! Otherwise, you can't say that at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is now up to the drivers and especially the counterparts who do not go to and from Jux and Tollery, but because they need it for survival, as well as the pensioners, that they can only shake their heads in the face of this government threat. Ladies and gentlemen, if, for example, someone is thinking by car – perhaps even stupidly with diesel, where prices are rising exorbitantly, or with normal petrol, which soon will no longer be there, because it is already priced for super petrol, it will soon be gone – after the work for which he only gets more wages today, which is worth about as much as 20 years ago – this is also a achievement of your great social policy – driving to the supermarket and shopping there and if he still has the luck of preparing these food at home on the gas stove, then that is a horror trip for him. This horror trip is becoming more and more people because the fuel prices are going up and nothing is done about it because the prices for food exorbitantly rise. I am not talking here about the fine food department in which some of you are shopping, but I am talking about the basic foods that people will soon be unable to afford, because of course, as well as basic foods, transport and production costs, and thus energy costs, and the oil and gas price is rising rapidly. You also make a contribution to this. July by another 3.6 percent tax on the oil. The price of heating oil has risen by one third since the beginning of the year, while the summer is usually the time when it is most favourable and stored. Anyone who knows it knows that after the oil in a few weeks the gas will follow. And the experts say 25 percent, about there we have to move at the price increase. Do not say, ladies and gentlemen, that we have no proposals from the Freedom Party or that these proposals are absurd. What we have asked for is in other countries! In Luxembourg there is a price cover, in Italy the mineral oil tax has been reduced. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] What you bring together there, we will still bring it together in Austria: for the discharge of the population! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9546	Mr Scheibner has now come to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9567	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If it were not so serious, it would be possible to enjoy this debate, in particular the speeches made by representatives of the government parties. Unfortunately, however, it is serious, and I am not quite sure that you will not be able to take the opportunity here and take real effective measures to relieve Austrians, to do everything possible to relieve them of this price avalanche. There are two points to be discussed here: on the one hand, of course, the European level. Mr Jarolim, I really wonder: What are you waiting for in the Federal Government? – That would be one of the tasks of the European Union. With each small merger, it is examined whether this is not in any way antitrust or whether any powers are exploited, but with the oil companies one sees inadvertently, as there are clear cartel languages, as there are exorbitant, unfoundable increases in the market, where there are hardly any more price differences in the spray. That is what the EU is looking forward to! It would also be a task for the Austrian representatives in the relevant councils to set up a discussion process at European level. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On the other hand, the level of the Federal Government, Mr Bartenstein Federal Minister. Mrs Fleckl said that the Federal Government had acted three times in this legislative period. - Great! It is now a year and a half ago that we have this government, and it has acted three times. I should like to congratulate you, once you have acted by increasing the tax on mineral oil and even doing more than you have provided for in the government programme. In view of these rising prices, we are really wondering why this federal government is not man or "fruitful" enough to take back this totally impossible increase. That would also be a clear signal for the Austrians! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then you go here in oblivion. Mr Bartenstein, it can't be You're serious that you're the only one to take the statistics here and say it's much worse elsewhere. – The Austrians have no choice whatsoever that the Germans who earn more than the Austrians may have to pay a few cents higher fuel price. But there have been quite other interesting speeches, of the Greens, for example. The Greens should actually rejoice, because at last your demand has been implemented: 20 s for the litre fuel! That's where you'd have to rejoice and not hide. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] – That was no warning, that was your election program at the time: 20 S for the litre fuel. If Mr Van der Bellen gives an economic lecture here and says that we should not reduce taxes, because if the oil price is lowered here in Austria, the oil price is rising internationally, because demand is boosted, I must say: Well, that's a "wonderful" theory. I have to say that the Austrian market already has weight! The Chinese and the Americans have nothing to talk about, but the Austrians. If the tax is lowered, this will significantly affect the market – “great”, this debate! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Moser has put another one on it. She confused the National Council with “Who is basking with?” and brought here nice craftsmanships of bicycles. To tell the Austrians that we all drive from the Greens by car – as I have heard now, the subsidized hybrid vehicles – but you better get on bicycles, which is especially recommended in a day like today. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: By the subway!]] – Yes, metro, Minister Bartenstein. Tell the people in Amstetten, in St. Pölten, wherever, in Mistelbach, they should change to the subway when they go to school or to the workplace. So, please, more evidence of the “lightness” of this debate would not have needed it at all. [[Abg. Street: By bike to Bregenz!]] I think it is good that this current hour has been transferred live today, because now the Austrians can make a good picture of how they represent this federal government here. And perhaps you should consider that three times Mrs Fleckl's action is too little for an active government – even if you increase taxes. Finally, it means taking action at EU level against these cartels and against these oil-multis price agreements, and here in Austria the taxes to reduce the mineral oil tax. It can't be that if someone earns €10, then only €3 Sprit will get this money.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9651	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:20:01]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9675	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The text of the Communication is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 3556/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9970	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply 3556/AB to Question 3586/J by Dr Peter Fichtenbauer, colleagues on the reform of the Office of Ministers by the Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9991	I would also like to say that a request from Ursula Haubner for a brief debate was made to the Family Committee on Reporting on the motion for a resolution 468/A(E) by Mrs Ursula Haubner and colleagues on strengthening fatherly union by introducing a "voluntary fatherly month" a period of up to 7. ==References== In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these debates will be called at 3 p.m. in the order in which I have listed them. Debates of the European Parliament Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10021	The debate on points 1 and 2, 4 and 5, 7 to 9, 10 and 11, 13, 14 and 16 and 17 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed in this way. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10048	The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the design and duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 131 minutes, Green and FPÖ per 108 minutes and BZÖ 63 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:22:11]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (553 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Eco electricity Act (2. Eco electricity law Novelle 2008) (562 d.b.) 2. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (554 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act re-adopting provisions in the field of combined heat and power (KWK Act) (563 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10097	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10127	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have just held an energy policy debate and will continue to do so now. In accordance with the agenda, we are now negotiating the Ecostrom Act, which has been in discussion for several years, in intense discussion. It was a promise from the Federal Government, from the Minister of Environment and from the Minister of Energy, that there would be a new, good eco electricity law. I have been following the debate closely before, and I have the impression that the drama of the situation in which we are now in is not understood or that it will not be seen that politics today, on Thursday, not only has to look at the next Sunday, the election Sunday in Tyrol, but also a few years beyond, and that forward-looking, energy-political reasonable planning is our task. The proposals, which come in part here, are not all reasonable in the long term, medium-term. Because – and this fact we simply have to ask ourselves –: Oil will never be cheap again. We are at the end of the oil age – and we have an economy, a mobility that works exclusively with oil, with oil. We must leave this oil industry in the medium term. Each step of not being taken in this direction is simply a step in the wrong direction. In this sense, the whole debate on tax reduction and so on is the wrong discussion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the meantime, all the alarms are crying; I think you have also followed the international discussion a little bit. The International Energy Agency, which has always very conservatively appreciated the issue of oil prices and oil deposits et cetera, has very clearly positioned itself. Their boss, Fatih Birol, said: We should leave the oil before it leaves us. – This is a very clear warning, especially for an Austrian economy, which is 98 percent dependent on oil in particular in transport. If Mr Strache stands up with a petrol canister today and demands that one should continue to subsidize the dependence on oil and simply leave people in this situation, then that is nothing but to remove a fire with petrol. I also expect you to not only pour populist oil into the fire here – literally – but really think about how mobility and energy supply can actually look like in 2020, 2030. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is not the point, Mr Scheibner, whether he needs the car or not at this really cheap level. I'm also a mother driving into the kindergarten, here and there by car, but here and there with the tram, but that's not the point. It is about ensuring mobility for people in the future. It will be 2020, 2030 simply no longer to be financed when the barrel of oil costs 200 dollars, 300 dollars, 400 dollars. – This is the point, and I also expect you to make a little more reasonable proposals than this cheap mutual downturn. That in all clarity! Reasonable energy policy was the subject. Reasonable energy policy – and I think we can meet here – basically means: Reduce oil dependence, reduce consumption wherever it happens, whether through electricity or through heat standards in house construction, increase and promote renewable energies. Not only that the law that we are presented here by you, Mr Energy Minister, does not do exactly that, no, in the future it will actually shut down, broken down, prevented, destroyed, destroyed the expansion of renewable energy. This is the last point in a long list of errors of an energy minister – they were very long ministers – an environmental minister, an economic minister. In the last ten, twelve years, you have controlled important central areas of Austria, but this exit from the oil price trap to accompany this entry into a new age with measures that you have not consistently made, and today's law is the highlight of this. Here on this day, where we discuss price increases and no longer know how to continue to finance and facilitate heat, oil-based mobility, you will submit a law that actually kills renewables in Austria. This is such a serious failure, which is why we will also have parliamentary consequences today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A few more numbers to make this clear. The Republic of Austria, the Federal Government, gives a surcharge for public transport of € 10 million a year. That's a very, very low sum. Last year alone, the increase in commuting/kilometer money cost €60 million, this year again €60 million, a total of €120 million. – I wonder: How useful are such measures if, on the other hand, one does not do anything to ensure that rural areas – where the is highly complained of – to increase public transport to the extent that they can really be used over the next 15, 20 years? Public transport and rural areas – this is not something that is God-given. We do not want empty rooms either, but of course we want concentrated local centres. But there must be public offers. It doesn't have everyone, not everyone a car, and it can't have everyone a car. That is why it is so inconceivably shortsighted to say: Okay, there's no public traffic, but what do you want to do, and done. That's not the point! This is where political design works. This is where we need to work and expand. 10 million € are a naughtiness. If this is not done properly over the next ten or 15 years, then we will face insoluble problems, especially in rural areas. Already, a rural flight is beginning, rental prices are already rising, housing prices are rising – all this is also a consequence of false energy policies. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Energieminister, the novel that you think we are today – and I am really saying that we feel that this is the case. – to say: We had a functioning ecosystem regime in 2004. The plants have begun to grow, the market has boomed, the companies have developed very, very well, have not only exported but also built plants in Austria. A small fine industry has been created. The law was then to succeed ÖVP and SPÖ, and it was killed. Since 2006, hardly any new plants have been built. 17 million € Funding volume, previously over 100 million € Funding volume. You will now submit to us a law where you will increase from € 17 million to € 21 million, knowing that there are massive problems with raw materials prices in the area of biomass and biomass, especially biomass. The increase in raw materials prices is now included, and the 4 million you provide in addition will certainly eat exclusively from the increased raw materials prices in the biomass sector. That is to say, there will be no additional investment in Austria. They remain in this important industry of the future on a high-primary level and thus destroy not only jobs, but also force us to import further nuclear power, force us to continue to emit CO2. By the way, they want to build five new large gas power plants, which is your energy policy strategy. That means five million tonnes of additional CO2, and that in turn means additional costs from the Kyoto Treaty. – That in total, energy policy is unreasonablely pure! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can only tell you we've been watching for a long time. For this delicate time in which we are now, for this sensitive phase in which our industrial societies need to make a leap into a new age, sit in a very, very important position. I think our children and children will once ask why we have not done this in these years, this decade, and we will then have to answer: Yes, there was an energy minister, Bartenstein, who simply did not recognize the signs of time, but consistently placed on oil, gas and nuclear power imports and did not take advantage of the opportunities we had. That is why I propose to the National Council that the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour fail to trust in Article 74 B-VG. One point to the conclusion. We expect from you – and we have expected this from you – that at European level you are consistently a worker, a supporter of renewable energies and climate protection. You've got yourself in any decision, in any directive – whether it be the emission limit values for passenger cars – whether it be the objective of renewables to the European Union, whether it be energy efficiency, consistently placed on the side of non-environmental protectors, the non-climate protectors. They were a reliable lobbyist against renewable energy sources. In my view, we also have a responsibility – and this is very important – in the European Union, and I think Austria expects its Minister of Energy to make this policy, which is also environmentally oriented, climate-friendly. You didn't prove that. I think that if the population knew that, then perhaps it would give the majority of this mistrust amendment, which is likely to find no majority in this House today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10258	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10421	The next item is the speech by Mr Kopf, with a five-minute welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10442	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs Glawischnig, divisions such as “Frequentness”, “killed” and “Gartenwärg-Niveau” have not yet replaced any arguments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What kind of situation do we have? In this country, we increased the share of eco electricity from less than one percent to 8 percent between 2002 and 2006. With us is always the talk of Germany and of how great they are, what they do well. They also do good in this area, but we are about where Germany is at the level of the eco-current share, but we have also, instead of nuclear power, the large hydropower; admitted: given by nature. So overall, we even have a much, much better situation than the Germans. I don't know what to criticize. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] After all, €300 million per year for this form of electricity generation; the total duration is €3 billion. That saves 3 million tons of CO2. What's happening now? We are bringing in a novel that will enable us to increase this eco-power share from 8 to 15 percent, with which another € 2 billion will flow into the system of funding, enabling us to save a further one and a half million tonnes to the 3 million tonnes of CO2. And that's what you're talking about, "Frequent"? So I am somewhat amazed at the lack of seriosity you are addressing on this issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What do we do with this novelle? There have been some criticisms of the current legal situation; Planning security, investment security has been criticized. – We include a permanent purchasing obligation for electricity from eco-electric power plants in the law. We extend the durations as was the wish of the operators and the potential future operators. We increase the volume of funding; They're always talking about reducing the funding volume to 21 million. We add 21 million each year to these 300 million, which are spent on an annual basis, so that we can all hear this once again. That is, next year it is 321, then 342, then 363 million and so on. – That’s the truth! They always do so, and they always represent it in the public as if we were going from 300 to 21 million. That's not true. But you make it quite conscious to bring about this confusion. What do we do beyond that? – There will be new tariffs in 2009, a fall away – demanded by photovoltaics, manufacturers – from the country’s co-financing requirements by spraying investment promotion on the one hand for the small and tariff promotion for the large. We also disband the CHP funding part from the Ecocurrent Act. I mean, of course, that CHP funding is very useful, but it has always been a criticism that this will be handled under the Eco electricity Act. Okay, we're now laying down a law of our own, because I'm convinced that promotion for power heating is useful, but it's about a law of my own. In these days, the Federal Minister will send an additional law on the promotion of district heating and cold management, so that we can further improve the environmental situation – there are up to 3 million tonnes of CO2 savings in it. I would like to make another amendment to this Government's proposal and explain it in the cornerstones. It is a matter of clarifying which consumer groups are obliged to pay the counter-point fee; Expanding the obligation to contract – I mentioned it earlier – to purchase eco electricity at market prices beyond the funding period; harmonising the time limits for entry into force; Preciseisation of the date of entry into force and so on. A second request concerns a constitutional provision in § 13. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! We present here a legislative novel with which we present the eco electricity share on sensational 15 per cent will be increased. This cannot only be seen across Europe, so we are in a leading position throughout Europe, and I therefore tell you: The Federal Minister is not worthy of our distrust, but of all our trust.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10551	The amendment tabled by the Head of Parliament to the Government's proposal for a directive 554 of the Supplements has been properly submitted, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The amendment to the Government's proposal 553 of the supplements, which he has also submitted and explained in his key points, will cause me to distribute on the basis of the length of the Rules of Procedure. He is also involved in the negotiations. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10991	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement with a desired speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11012	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The share of electricity from renewable energy sources will be increased to 15 percent by 2015. That is right, Mr Kopf, but that is the only statement that is right. It must also be borne in mind that in Austria we have a completely different energy mix than elsewhere and that we have the great advantage of being able to operate with hydropower. Therefore, this target of 15 percent is not particularly ambitious and not particularly great. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If we're already there: A typical example of the ÖVP has come out in these speeches of the colleague's head. Shortly before decision-making, amendments will be tabled, in a length which will not allow us to deal with them in detail. That's unfair, that's not right. You can't do that here in the house. I think we should have a little better discussion cultures. Now, very briefly, to the framework for procedures in the committees. – We have heard of master plans to be presented by the countries in order to secure energy provision. That is to say, Minister Bartenstein and the representatives of the government parties call on the countries to develop framework plans, but they themselves are not able to develop a federal framework plan that shows us where energy supply in Austria is to go. Very curious things are to be noted in this eco electricity law-new. For example, ablauge is also promoted, such as ablauge from the paper industry. That's what you're really asking yourself: What does Ablauge have to look for in the Ecostrom Act? - It certainly has nothing to do with it. Once again, this is clearly a client policy. Mr Bartenstein! It would be interesting to know with what argument you can justify that we are promoting a blues under the Ecocurrent Act. We now have the curious situation that we are promoting the industry three times: first with cheap electricity tariffs, second with the Energy Reimbursement Act and thirdly now with the Ablue Combustion Act. Minister! Explain Please ask the citizen and tell us here whether this is the future, that we are three times promoting the industry under the Eco electricity Act! – That certainly can't be! Apparently, some manager called from Pöls or elsewhere to exert pressure, either on you or on Molterer. I don't know where that comes from. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein:... from Pöls!]] It is interesting that this technology, which could really be important in the future, namely the technology of photovoltaics, will be completely eliminated. While there is always a great deal of talk about energy efficiency promotions and technology promotions, if we put it to the point, the ban on dual funding – except for photovoltaics – is missing. There is no support cover – except for photovoltaics. There are EU-wide limits on funding that slow down photovoltaics. And so on. And now you are making a request to promote the photovoltaic systems, which would really be a chance for the future, only more in the private sector. That's to say, the entire commercial area in photovoltaics is what you're looking for. – This is not what the future of energy supply in Austria would represent! Mr Bartenstein, you have also operated in committee with figures that do not vote. They refer to the following figures for CO2 reduction costs per tonne: 70 € for wind power, 165 € for solid biomass and 1 300 € for photovoltaics. Mr Minister, these figures are clearly wrong, I have taken that into account. Even if you accept a price of 53 cents for photovoltaic power, this is up to 770 € per tonne of avoidable costs. In other words, you also operate in the committee with wrong numbers, and that is not fair. Be so honest and say you don't want photovoltaics that you're afraid that photovoltaics can prove and establish themselves in Austria – perhaps because they can't treat photovoltaics as monopoly. Maybe you're a purely representative of the union. The fact is, however, that photovoltaic is the chance for the future. Now on a few points in the current government paper. First point: You write: The use of support for the efficient implementation of renewable energy. But you do not say with a word how you want to increase this efficiency, nor do you say that there is no reasonable analysis of the energy situation in Austria or a plan. That is, we don't know where we stand, we don't know where we want to go, but we're constantly promoting it, and that's always depending on which lobby is best brought in, which lobby best gets behind your ears. Second point: The production of electricity from renewable energy sources must comply with European Community law. – This is how you write it in your government paper. – The fact is, however, that there is no common market in Europe, which leads to renewable energy, and the import tariffs are completely different. Mr Minister, you know which feed-in tariffs exist in Germany, Spain and Greece, and if you look at them and compare them with the Austrians, you can see how miserable the promotion according to the eco electricity law is in the field of photovoltaics. If you say there are already approaches in Germany to take back the support in the photovoltaic field, I have to tell you: You're ill-informed! [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Minus 30 percent!]] The fact is that this withdrawal has long been reversed. That means: Germany is taking an exemplary path in the field of renewable energy. Curious things can also be read on page 5 of your government template, namely: additional support volume. – They say: The support volume is also there to cover differences from the proceeds from the sale of other eco electricity! – That means nothing else: If the combination and the OeMAG loses in the trading of eco electricity, then this loss must also be fed from the promoters for renewable energies. – This is a situation where you can only laugh more! That is, if the compound and the OeMAG do not operate decently, then this also goes at the expense of the promoters for photovoltaics. So in total, this government template is only there to promote your clients. Mr Minister, you say: We don't need a total reform! – On the other hand, we say: It is absolutely necessary to implement a total reform! Not only do we need a total reform of this eco electricity law, but we obviously also need two new ministers, a new minister of the economy and a new minister of the environment, because their approaches are potentially unusable in order to bring Austria into a reasonable energy future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11073	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Bauer. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11095	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! This debate can be completely linked to the first negotiating point where the question of high energy prices has been discussed. I am convinced that we are actually at a turn of events where we must be aware that we have more and more to go away from fossil energy towards renewable energy. However, we need transitional periods to ensure security of supply and to allow technological developments. Finally, I see this as a terrible opportunity. I've already said this a few times: After the great growth shift that came out of the automotive industry, the computer systems came, and now the energy issue can become what we need: a growth and an employment engine! Because this technology is only at the beginning and is universally usable. I believe that this will ensure more growth. I don't understand the criticism. – Not because I don’t want it, but if you make the statement here that this is a standstill, I wonder: Where is it read that this will result in a standstill during expansion? Anyone who properly interprets this law must understand it as a carrier rocket. This is because we have not only made valuable contributions to renewable energy, but also because, by means of a number of other legal regulations, we have made a very good, positive contribution to climate problems and to CO2 reduction, thus starting a development which, as I think, actually signals an energy transition. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! As one who deals with these questions very intensively – including through various institutions – I have repeatedly made it clear that it is necessary to create transition periods, because all of this is not possible overnight. Then: Finally, everything that is said about the idea of saving is absolutely right, everything that is said in terms of increasing energy efficiency! But it's not enough if you say, We want to increase energy efficiency to 45 percent. If one does not have the time to achieve the necessary technological success. That is why I believe that it is necessary to be realistic once. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the coalition partner at this point, the co-negotiator's head, and also the Federal Minister Bartenstein, who showed a lot of flexibility in the negotiations. If you say that the Ecostrom Act can be judged by itself, I have to go to the meeting: What is the management law different from the heat and cooling management law? There alone 60 million will be invested. This will contribute to a 3 million tonnes of CO2 reduction, which is, as it were, co-negotiated with this law. Now on photovoltaics, an area where criticism is always practiced, which I don't understand at all. We have shared the field of photovoltaics. Photovoltaics are treated in the context of the eco electricity law for plants with more than 5 kW, because this is acceptable by the conversion technology. At the same time, we have located the solar thermal energy in the climate and energy funds. In this context, I would like to make a motion for a resolution on the implementation of a photovoltaic support programme, because we believe that where investment grants are of greater benefit, they should also be used. We will therefore not only increase the amount of funding for photovoltaics from 1.5 million to 2.1 million, but we will also use millions from the climate fund for this. So you always have to look at the sum of the funding and consider it as a whole package. And this is, I mean, truly herable. A package we can be proud of! Now I submit the proposed request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Whoever sees the promotions in the sum, will see that this is a good law, a good entry into an energy transition that is urgently necessary. The next thing we're going to have to deal with is not the eco electricity law, but the energy efficiency law. Here I mean that together with the scientists new opportunities, new opportunities need to be addressed. I am convinced that this bill provides an important basis for a positive technological development for decentralised systems, for systems that are future-looking. Finally, I would like to express my express thanks to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and to you, Mr Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11157	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11225	Ladies and gentlemen, on their own – but I think it fits the debate –: I would like to inform you that Parliament will receive a photovoltaic system for the first time during the roof renovation work. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Schalle. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11255	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The Eco electricity Act is intended to create the framework for the promotion of renewable energy sources and has the purpose of enabling the expansion of electricity from renewable energy sources, where electricity is not yet profitable in purely economic terms. In my opinion, it is crucial that fossil fuel should be saved and CO2 reduced. But if you look closely at the government template, you can see that, at least from my point of view, little to no account is taken of it. But not just that! In the first novelle 2008 the goal was to achieve 15 percent eco electricity by 2015 and without the help of hydropower. Now it is planned that the hydropower will be added and electricity from hydropower will be included. I already know that electricity from hydropower is also part of the eco electricity, but the goal was quite another. What will be now? – We will achieve a maximum increase of 2 to 3 percent for the other energy sources and will far miss the goal that we have achieved by 2015. Mr. Minister! Energies that cost nothing and do not cause CO2 are greatly disadvantaged in this law, yes, I would even say ignored, such as wind energy, solar energy, photovoltaic energy and geothermal energy. These energies are not dependent on a fluctuating, speculative and most overprice trend on the raw material market. I see this law as a purely support policy for agriculture, for industry, but also for the protection of energy groups. And the cost of it is the consumer, he pays the bill for this because he is further burdened and not relieved. Biomass: The result can only be and will also be that agricultural soils will be removed from valuable humus due to the disposal of agricultural residues such as manure, manure, grass or heels. The worst thing about this is that expensive artificial fertilisers must be used, which further lubricate the soils and continue to burden groundwater with nitrate. – Mr Grillitsch, I cannot understand agriculture at all, because it goes a completely wrong way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And what the support for industry is going on: There can be no double funding and 30 percent additional investment aid, whereas on the other hand, certificates are already being funded. The fact that, in a final second amendment, the investment subsidies for CHP investment on the basis of ablaugen were significantly increased shows that very obvious party-political interests were in the foreground of the negotiations on this draft law. There was no reason for this either the Federal Minister or the representatives of the government parties, Dr. Bauer and Lord Head, deliver. Mr Bartenstein, where is the observance of the principle of equality, where the industry, compared to consumers, is already preferred with a very, very cheap electricity price? If it were a real concern for this Federal Government to get out of fossil fuels by 2020 – and that would be possible – very important experts say that this is easily possible – it would finally have to take the necessary steps for renewable energy sources. In my view, there should also be no power-heat coupling operated by fossil fuels. These are removed from the law and regulated in a separate law. But – which is particularly bad – funding remains in the Eco electricity law. The increase of only 4 million in promotions for new energies is actually a joke. Consumers are taxed by this law by €25 more, even to where almost everything becomes more expensive, such as spray and food. I don't fully understand this, because there seems to be no lack of money in the federal budget – so it can't be that – because this federal government has 400 million euros left, which they would have wanted to give to foundations. I don't understand why she's generous there and is small here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I also believe that an important point is that the treatment of hot water with solar or heat pumps should be regulated in such a way that it is mandatory for all new buildings and renovations. In Germany, Spain and Italy, where it is already regulated by law, there is simply no new construction without a solar plant and no conversion without geothermal energy or solar energy for the treatment of hot water. There you should promote! This would be necessary and it would also be a discharge for consumers in the long term. In the area of large office buildings, re-installations of air conditioning would have to be regulated by law, that these would only be operated with photovoltaics. This would be quite easy to achieve and is actually also cost-effective. Finally, I can only say that the adoption of the German EEG would be the right way. This is what the national conference called for. The most important measure should, yes, be to save energy. And there the consumer, the consumer, and its commitment is in demand. But the Federal Government is also more than sparse on this point. Here you should really take a bond at the garbage collection or waste collection. Here you have also started in the kindergarten and in the schools, with the teachers to explain it to the children so that they explain to the parents at home how to save simple and meaningful electricity. I think this model should be taken as an example. But also when it comes to energy efficiency, the Federal Minister is in arrears. I can only give you an example. The now highly advertised flat screen needs four times as much electricity as a conventional one. But there is no consumer info about that at all. The consumer is not informed. Finally, and very up-to-date, just before the EURO, it should be noted that hardly anyone is aware that when the bearder is switched on all week, he consumes almost more energy than the beer actually costs. For the reasons I have mentioned, we cannot accept this government proposal – in the interests of consumers and operators of renewable energy sources and in particular the environment. So we will never achieve our environmental goals, and we will only be able to compensate for this again with expensive certificates trading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11368	Mr Klubobmann spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11393	Madam President. I really wonder if the government parties intend to make debates here in the House a farce. The honourable Member's head comes by the way with two sentences, perhaps it was three or one amendment. This amendment has eight pages, one page, one page, and only a few lines of justification; the usual explanations are missing naturally. In his speech, Mr Bauer von der SPÖ, it is not worth noting at all that the novelle that we have still studied is obsolete in that we have eight pages, one-sided, amendments. You already have to “give ” that! I grasp anything at random out of it: ‘5. In Z 8 the provisions of § 5 para. 1 Z 9 lit. (b) according to the word sequence, Enter tariff volume (§ 21a)’ the word sequence,in conjunction with § 21 and § 22a para. 2’’. I'm seriously asking you: What Member of this House understands in the next hour, where we are debating something, which seems to be out of relevance, namely the old novel, the government template, which is really to be changed? Madam President, this amendment contains five constitutional provisions. I would just like to draw your attention to what can happen if the 183 Members of the House talk about something they cannot know and debate. I would say that the honourable Member is the only one who knows at the moment what is in this amendment. [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the ÖVP and Greens.]] I think such a thing needs to be withdrawn or the vote on this law – from me to July – is delayed, but so is the really ruining of the plenary debates, it may also be in accordance with business rules. I know that this is in line with the Rules of Procedure, but in terms of content, I think a debate is a joke, where no one can know what is in it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11447	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the European Democratic Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11471	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Van der Bellen is perfectly right. We too are now making every effort to read these texts, to read the amendments. We were promised a new form of parliamentarianism. We opposition parties are very much trying to bring us into such important matters, but this possibility is taken by such an approach. I too am in favour of taking this vote at another time.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11496	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler for business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11520	I'm going to join him, of course. It is a completely unacceptable procedure, and I look deeply at Mr Klubobmann Cap here, if he also looks at us, who repeatedly promises that there is a new parliamentaryism and that, because of the events of the last meetings, where we have already massively criticized it, the opposition has also promised that this will no longer happen. Madam President, I also consider it unacceptable if the vote is to be placed only on today's agenda. That's too little! You can't check that. It is impossible to deal with an eight-page request, which must be reviewed by experts, which must also be reviewed by our club experts, during an ongoing session, where we all focus on the current debate. This is unacceptable, and therefore the government parties are seeking to withdraw this request and to submit it another time so that we have time to examine it. This is not the new parliamentaryism! That's what I'm holding.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11556	Also for business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11581	Although the proposal is eight pages strong, it is true, but it contains largely pure quotations here. That's a point. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: May we also check this, not just you?]] – Yes, of course, I understand. Let me say something, I just want to say something. It is a point of content that represents a real improvement, namely that the exemption from the counter-point fee is not only a result of the compensatory allowance, but an extension of the reference circle. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Explain this to us!]] That's very reasonable. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We agree – now we know each other!]] - Okay. I think that's all right that you want to agree. But my proposal would be to send a signal: Madam President, consider postponeing the vote. That's not a problem at all. In itself, the proposal would have been completed yesterday, and I think it should have been transmitted earlier. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] We need a few hours to see the opposition. This is also an appeal to the coalition partner.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11653	Another word message: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11677	It's easy: The criticism of the opposition is fully justified. We have fixed rules here. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] We should stop them, otherwise we don't take ourselves seriously. And the minimum thing to do now is that the vote will really be postponed as far as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11708	Ladies and gentlemen! The only thing I can do about the Rules of Procedure is to put the vote, according to § 65, to the end of the agenda, what I am doing here. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] [[Call the Greens:Reference request!]] Another procedure is not possible for me as President. Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen once again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11745	Madam President. I call for adjournment of the session, because this procedure is certainly unacceptable. That doesn't solve the problem at all!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11773	Mr Klubobmann, you can, of course, make the request for referral back and then vote on it. That's perfectly clear. [[The President shall be informed by a staff member of the Parliamentary Board that such a request is already in place.]] I have only seen this request made by your club. It is therefore also clearly clarified. Your referral request must be clearly agreed. It depends on how it works. I cannot go ahead with the votes. However, I recommend that the President-in-Office, or the President-in-Office, whom I believe we can agree to, at least move the vote to the end of the agenda. We're continuing our consultation. The next item is the report by Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11811	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In particular, the Greens, represented by Madam President Glavischnig, have strong criticisms about the large state of eco electricity law Novelle, in conjunction with a request for distrust: Climate killer law – no thank you!, say here. I would like to ask myself one thing, Madam President: In 2004, they spoke of a well-functioning eco-power law. My question to you and the Greens: Why did you not carry this law, which was passed in 2002, as the only political group at that time? You voted against the 2002 Ecostrom Act! [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Then the political misbehavior of the past will hurry as quickly as possible. And in the sense of a sustainable policy, in the sense of credibility, I already draw attention to this: You'll be glad to hear what you've been defying first. That's how your position on ecostrom is. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] They are simply not right in the face of decisive other arguments. I know you don't have it with numbers and facts. But leave it. You say that there has, of course, been a cost limitation to protect the consumer in the eco electricity law you celebrated in 2004. The cost limit was then set at 0.22 cents per kilowatt hour. Do you know how heavy consumers are today? - A cent per kilowatt hour! Do you know how costs per consumer will rise due to the new eco electricity law novelle? – At about 1.3 cents per kilowatt hour, that is, at the six times the value of what happened when you meant, at least in retrospect, that was very, very good. In terms of volume of support, you have a second or a third time completely wrong, dear Madam President. This 100 million support volume in 2004 cannot be compared to the additional 21 million of today. On the one hand, these 100 million went for the years 2000 to 2004, i.e. for a five-year period. Secondly, I would ask you to listen to me, Madam President, if you already make a motion for a reluctance. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek speaks to Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] You also expect me to listen to you, and I also expect you to listen to me, what you still don't do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you approach the matter – I know, it's quite complex – then you have to ask yourself: What was the market price at that time and how high is it today? At the time, were not technology funding for the countries in there too? Then, out of the 100 million € will be 35 million. So here, too, you are on the whole next door, Madam President, and my dear ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. And how do you manage climate protection? What do you say about CO2 savings as a whole when it really comes to taking action? What do you say? Are you going to the Hydropower Master Plan? This eco electricity law novel, ladies and gentlemen, makes up of 3 million tonnes of CO2 savings per year 4.5 million tonnes by 2015. That's remarkable, it's not for nothing. This costs at least € 100 million per year or more to the current € 300 million per year. This burdenes the household with about € 12 to 13 per year beyond the 35 € per year in force today. But we have on the other side... [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's not true!]] Of course that's true! We have often discussed facts in the past, Madam President Glawischnig, you have still made the shortest move. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have thought of this Hydropower Master Plan with a lot of criticism. This costs the electricity consumers nothing at all – nothing at all! And that does not bring 1.5 million tonnes of CO2 savings per year, but 3 million tons of CO2 savings if you make it reasonable. But this does not fit in with your one-dimensional, narrow-minded and even meager green policy, because there are also some nature conservation interests to discuss and to argue against local representations. But your overall assessment of hydropower is also positive. Only when it comes to it are you not for it, and usually even against it. That's a little bit of credibility. If I want to run climate protection, I want to force renewable energies, I also want to make a mistrust against the Federal Minister, among other things because of the non-forcement of renewable energy sources, but then I also have to say to the hydropower master plan, I have to say to the further expansion of this renewable energy source at the lowest cost, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As we are on facts and figures: Mr. Klement of the Liberals has raised the issue of photovoltaics and criticised the fact that I do not agree with what I have said in the Committee that the tonne of CO2 is saving with photovoltaics at €1 300, which is only €770 per tonne. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, a small calculation example: It is currently in Austria the kilowatt hour of photovoltaics with 62,4 cents – please follow me! – Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community. That's 624 € per megawatt hour. They save 0.5 tons of CO2 per megawatt hour, according to Adam Ries, makes 1 248 €, rounded up 1 300 € per saved tonne of CO2. This is indeed a price for the prince, Mr deputies. But what's completely gone away from you, and I'm telling you now: We have set considerable emphasis in the field of photovoltaics with this eco electricity law. Do you know what was possible at the last time in promoting photovoltaic installations? - Around 3 megawatts a year. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, what will be possible in the future? – 16 megawatts a year, that is, a fivefold increase! But this has been done for you in studying the whole subject – you were in the committee, I think, not really in it – probably gone away. Through the exemplary separation of the topic of photovoltaics, through the promotion of plants, I simplify, with the house-keepers and the transfer of this subject to the climate and energy funds – I only call here the 10,000 roof programme; our Environment Minister Josef Pröll will implement it – there alone about 3,500 plants are possible there with an average output of 10 megawatts per year and with the extended lid under the Ecostroms Act additional 6 megawatts. So 16 megawatts compared to 3 megawatts so far, thus a fivefold! This can be seen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not want to go into many of the principles of this eco electricity law novelle, which Karlheinz Kopf has already made quite excellent. I ask you, Mrs. Glawischnig: We can talk about the principles of the International Energy Agency, but then we do not do it punctually, but always. – By the way: The head of the International Energy Agency in Paris is called Nobuo Tanaka, the former name of Claude Mandil, Fatih Birol is the chief economist of the Energy Agency – a small difference I would like to point out to you, Madam President! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I said the chief economist!]] But then we also talk about how the International Energy Agency sees the development of the energy world in the future, what role the International Energy Agency attaches to fossil fuels and energy sources, that it says today and that it also predicts for 2030 that just over 80 percent of the world's energy sources will be fossil. That's it. You can now make this a little more reasonable or a little more unreasonable and turn a few percentage points, but then you don't look at these realities either, because it doesn't fit you, just as you're not a friend of hydropower, because you don't fit that and also don't fit into your political line. [[Calls to the Greens.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As far as cooperation with the coalition partner is concerned, I would like to say: I would also like to thank you very much, Mr Bauer, for this is an example. If we did this more often, it would be even better for the coalition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think it is very good that we have jointly developed an initiative for district heating and remote colds. There's a direct link. This is CO2-relevant, as is obviously the case with CHP CO2-relevant, even though the primary energy source may be fossil. I believe that in the coming weeks and months we should set a special focus, apart from hydropower, apart from the hydropower master plan, towards energy efficiency. The unconsumed is the most efficient, cheap, ecological kilowatt hour. And there is some or even much possible. About my request, the E-Control will be on 3rd. A first presentation of a Green Paper on energy efficiency will be held in July. And from my point of view, this Green Paper should be a guide for Josef Pröll and me, for the countries, for you, for all of us, for the economy like a red thread, for more energy efficiency in Austria's economy and for Austrian consumers. This is about concrete savings, which is a concrete example of sound energy policy. Mr Schalle. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. I'm used to a lot of things from you. It was back in modo forte in re. But that you justify this with geopolitical power interest, if as a coalition we still decide to do more about ablauge than was planned, I think it is a strong piece. We know that you, for whatever reason – probably even earlier in your function – were very skeptical of the industry. I don't know what trade would sell if industry didn't exist, but be it. You have to judge that. But with every fiber of my heart I stand to the fact that we have to protect the energy-intensive economy in Austria and the jobs, because it makes no sense at all if they migrate to either the Black Sea or China. What happened to ablau transport was a joint act of strength in the interest of the Pöls site if you want to do so. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] 450 jobs directly, some thousand jobs in the supply sector, for example in the agricultural sector, for example, timber. That's what I'm talking about. And if there are similar facilities elsewhere, they will also be eligible in the interests of jobs, directly or indirectly, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Summary: That's a big novel. This puts the topic of ecostrom on new legs. By the way: Whoever sings the Song of the German feed-in law: Read a little German newspapers, there is a very busy discussion about whether you should not lower the feed-in rates for electricity from photovoltaics from 45 cents per kilowatt hour to 35 cents. Well-marked: In Austria they were supported by 62 cents last year. So take note of such developments! We are on the road on the way in terms of ecostrom: 1.5 million tonnes in addition. – To all of you, especially to Mrs. Glawischnig, to the Greens: If you want to be honest, you are politically obliged to take part in the hydropower master plan, in further expansion of hydropower. This is also renewable energy, with the great advantage that you cost the electricity costs nothing in addition because it is calculated on the market. A small contrast to the topic of ecostrom, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11943	Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11964	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to draw attention to the content of Mr Schalle, who, by the way, meant that we want to get away from fossil fuels, and it would be quite easy to change over here. In fact, it is true that some countries are really striving to get out by 2020, such as Sweden. But what you're not saying is: They're going to put them on nuclear power. Or the greens: There is no alternative concept of you! Their position on hydropower is indeed – there are some oberösterreichische projects that I know – a relatively distanced and skeptical. As always, one has to say, and this seems to me to be very important to me today, that you have clearly escaped what the eco electricity law is supposed to serve for. While Mr Schalle has quoted the objectives, I believe that the background is simplified: I do not now have a market price for certain electricity generation mechanisms, especially in the alternative sector, and therefore I should like to draw these types of energy from the market price. And there is the question, are the useful methods of action or non-usable processes. I think that this law contains a lot of innovative, creative ideas that will also lead to structural changes. It has once meant one of your colleagues in the committee, the eco electricity is actually financed by the taxpayer. That's an indirect match somewhere. But in effect Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. On the other hand, it surprises me that you are now talking about the “climate law” if you can’t show any alternatives here at all, you haven’t done anything about this. Therefore, I would ask you to deal with the details once. The details are always in a field of tension, and this looks like this: the location Austria, the taxpayers and the needs in the climate. The new law, I would say, will, in particular, bring the eco-electric generators on considerably. For example, we have more planning security. It has always been a problem when it comes to pricing prices, which has been set here to the date of conclusion of the contract. Now you can switch to the date of the application. Is an advantage, brings much more planning security. Second point in this context: Applications shall be taken up to four years after the submission of applications and shall not expire until such time. An improvement of the applicants. Third point: The tariff periods will be extended. This means that you have more continuity, especially with regard to biogas and biomass. On a regulatory basis, there is even the possibility of extending them to 20 years. The volume is increased overall. And what has not yet been addressed and what is particularly valuable to us: They also have a location in Austria, and there is the industry, which is also very energy intensive. And if there's an overload here, I have real problems with the desiccation. Therefore, I think it is very positive that we have a compensation scheme for energy-intensive companies here, provided eco-electric costs exceed 0.5 percent of the net production value. The promotion of ablue projects is also very positive, because this is the second reason that industry remains in the country if it receives 30 percent support – like the idea of promoting investment, for example in the field of small hydropower, is a very positive idea, because I do not burden tariffs, but encourage investment, encourage many to be active in this field. I also see the photovoltaic with the roof programme, which is funded by the Climate and Energy Fund, as a truly positive structural and new effect. To sum up, therefore: The new law brings us much further than before, contributes to the climate objectives and can also be financed in some way. I don't understand how you reject this indiscriminately.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12025	Mrs Lichtenecker's next speech. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12047	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! So over a year now again and again the ÖVP, the SPÖ, has shown that we Greens are right: This is a bad eco electricity law that we have had, and there is an urgent need for reform. So today, besides the fact that there is an 8-page amendment and that a Lex Pöls is being introduced into the Committee a half-and-a-half hours earlier, namely that investment promotion is increased from 20 to 30 percent. That's a scandal special, a hustle and bustle action! [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Today's law wants to conceal your lack of the long-term plan. You are missing the plan because: How do we make ourselves more independent of the fossil energy sources? How do we support and force the renewable sector? [[Abg. Grill: That's what we do!]] Mr Grillitsch, not even in the approach to what is at all necessary! The 21 million, as we know, are too few. If you're talking about seriosity, Mr. Head, then let's look at the law and the destination that's inside: 15 percent are inside! Now, if you consider it serious, we already have 13 percent if we take the basis of assessment as it is now defined. This is an increase of exactly 2 percent by 2015. And it's a scandal to talk about a doubling here! It's just wrong how you act. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you already limit the photovoltaic industry with the development goals and thus do not give an enormous future industry the opportunities it urgently needs, at least listen to what its representatives say! The OTS they sent out to this law is: Too little to live, too much to die. That's how you want to make energy policy? – That’s what I’m saying: no, thank you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Then Look The biomass targets are as follows: 100 kW by 2015. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: MW!]] 100 MW, excuse me! 100 MW by 2015 means nothing but 15 MW per year. And, my colleague, you know that the biomass power plant Timelkam in Upper Austria has 15 MW. What a ridiculous goal per year in relation to biomass! It can't be! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: You don't have wood at all, Mrs. Deputies! Where are you taking the biomass? She's already being imported!]] With regard to eco-stromability: We know that the benefits are three times as high as the costs. And I believe that the task of a minister of energy is to think nationally, to plan for the long term and not to pursue an absolutely short-sighted and ignoring policy here. And that is an essential point that we are also criticising here. Mr Mitterlehner, you seem to confuse the law with something that is of course good in the industrial sector. If you are making a press release entitled “Ecostromgesetz-Novelle relieves energy-intensive industry”, I say: Thematic miss! – The Eco electricity Act is about something else, not about the discharge of the energy-intensive industry, but about the expansion, the promotion of renewable energies. This is a question of giving the industry an opportunity to create jobs and finally stop imports of nuclear power. That must be the goal! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you want to move photovoltaics up to 5 kV in the climate and energy funds, please think – kW, yes, yes – then think – Mr Bartenstein, you are also represented in the Climate Fund – of reporting the last months on climate and energy funds. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: kW! Not kV! kW!]] It is called a self-service shop for the ministries, nothing goes on, millions remain. And that's also the fear, if we move the small plants there now, the house builders, that nothing goes on here, not even for the photovoltaic industry. The last highlight is read in the press today: Climate funds millions are on ice, nothing goes on, it's a self-service store, it's a pure dispute. – And that’s what you want to see in the industry?- Oh, my God! That's what we're saying: No, thank you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you're talking big about the hydropower: Of course, we are about renewable energies. We also stand for hydropower, hydropower in an ecological form, and there are also examples in Upper Austria. Just, Minister, you're making it very cheap. They submit a master plan of hydropower, which in no way takes into account nature reserves, Natura 2000 sites, on the last freely flowing areas. And that can't be it! It is not possible to play the role of climate protection against nature conservation. Finally, we need an eco electricity law that does not even exist in this form today. We need 50 million funding, at least. We need a long-term tariff guarantee, namely 20 years. The 13 and the 15 years are far too few. We need fair feed-in rates and fair cost distribution. This must be the goal in order to actually make climate change and sustainable energy policy here. I'm telling you, that's not an eco electricity law that's in place today. [[Abg. Grill: What is it then?]] That's a law of climate protection prevention, Mr Grillitsch! That's a law for dependence, and that's a law for nuclear imports! And to that we say: No, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12183	The next speaker was Mr Ing. May. Kuzdas. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12205	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Lichtenecker, experience as in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy: They are trying very hard to disprove this law, but the constructive proposals that I have not heard today and in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Then you didn't listen!]] [[Abg. Hornek: No one can find them!]] I am with Mr Mitterlehner when he says that nuclear power can neither be sold as clean nor as cheap. That's really not an alternative. With the Ecostrom Act – and it is not only the Ecostrom Act that we advise and decide today, it is more – it will ensure that the expansion stop you claimed will finally be terminated by the 2006 novel. That's gonna work with this novel. The chief negotiators of the government parties Karlheinz Kopf and Hannes Bauer have made themselves especially worthy, but also thanks to the Federal Minister for his creativity and flexibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Ökostromgesetz will make a significant contribution to achieving the CO2 savings target, and we do not need to hide with the target of 15 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's only 2 percent growth in eight years!]] However, the Committee has also made a significant statement, namely biomass, that the raw material balance is not disrupted by the production of green electricity. This does not mean food for energy production, nor the reduction of the raw material base for food and feed production by the Eco electricity Act. This too is a very important component. However, I would like to take two further improvements from the variety of these improvements. It has always been criticized for lack of planning security. This planning certainty is now, on the one hand, due to the relevant time for setting the tariffs, namely the time of submission, and on the other hand, what the IG Wind Kraft has always assembled, by the so-called extension of the waiting loop from two to four years and, on the other hand, by the extension of the funding times. Wind power is of course not undisputed everywhere. I come from Lower Austria, the Windland in Austria, and there are also resistances on the part of the citizens and the mayor. We also have a task in front of us to address and resolve this problem through the spatial planning. This is also part of it if we want to end the expansion stop. On the topic of photovoltaics. I believe that the field of photovoltaics has never gone as well as it is now through this new law: on the one hand, through the division in domestic production plants with less than 5 kilowatts and with those who remain in the support regime of the eco electricity. And last but not least, the motion for a resolution which has been tabled significantly increases the proportion of research and we expect efficiency to be improved. Ladies and gentlemen! Wind and sun are undoubtedly the most future-proof energy sources. They are particularly cost-effective at our disposal. They're not sending us a bill. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today is a good day for the future operators of eco-electric power plants, because planning security is produced, because there is clear funding regulation and because there is a key impetus for strengthening research and future technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12280	The next item is Mr Themessl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12301	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The government is now in office for a year and a half and a half, and slowly systems are recognizable. It's going anywhere. Mr Bauer said that the debate on this item on the agenda could actually go seamlessly to the current hour, because it is also about energy in terms of costs. And all that we have experienced in recent weeks and months has in the meantime adopted a certain system: They're hurling the population where you can. And if the pressure of the population and, above all, the pressure of the media becomes too great, then try to do something. I'm right, Mr. Kopf, you're already doing something, just: What you are doing is either you distribute alms, or, as here in the Ecostrom Act, you make minor improvements, which are basically never and never enough to achieve the self-defined goals, including the Kyoto goals, even the goals that have been set within the EU itself. That won't be enough. And then it goes on: In principle, they introduce a modified government template one and a half hours in front of a subcommittee to deal with this issue, which no human being can actually deal with in detail in one and a half hours. But not enough – the colleague Lichtenecker has also mentioned it –: Today, during the debate, you are introducing an amendment which is eight pages long, and then you expect the opposition parties here to shout Hurra and say: Great what this government is doing! That's not a job. For example, a work in Parliament cannot be targeted at the Austrian population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to your eco electricity law and the minor novels you always make: The only thing you seem to have noticed yourself in the meantime is that a promotion of power-heat-couplings and thus the combustion of fossil raw materials should not be carried out through an eco electricity law. That's what you've outsourced, you're currently promoting it with your own law. But at least you noticed that it didn't lose anything in the Ecostrom Act. If your ÖVP-own ex-EU Commissioner Fischler says again and again: A rethinking in the Federal Government is long overdue, the time of the lazy compromises is over!, then I have to give it completely right. I'll tell you: If you only want to achieve the goals yourself and are to be spared from this penalty payment of €1.5 billion in the EU, you need to take more funds into your hands. Then you have to fundamentally renew the eco electricity law – as we did not only demand it, but also the greens in requests from the public – and then we may have a slight chance. An example of this is that one buys 500 million € of emission certificates abroad by saying and writing. Value added is lost in the country, and it does not help to achieve our own EU goals. With €500 million you could have done a lot for renewable energy in Austria! One could have bought 1,000 windwheels, one could have donated 20,000 voltaics for single - family homes. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: €500 million?]] This would probably have been much better than was €500 million in the next few years, until 2012 for the purchase of foreign emission certificates. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another word on the Greens concerning renewable energy: You know, I would have wanted a little more honesty there! Whenever it comes to the expansion of hydropower, the Greens are the first to oppose and try to prevent or delay the start of construction as long as possible, with opposition, with citizens' initiatives and so on. The second is: In the meantime, the Greens and Citizens' Initiatives are already criticising wind farms because they are too loud because they do not fit into the landscape and, and, and. [[Abg. You're right!]] Thirdly, If you always bet against nuclear power, I am surprised that the Green Council of State in Upper Austria has made no appeal against the fact that Upper Austrian Energie AG is taking TIWAG into the boat, although it is known that TIWAG has at least 25 percent of the highest amount of nuclear power in the world. – So much for the honesty of the Greens in climate policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Then I say something to you, because it fits well here and could perhaps help create an additional incentive for renewable energy. To this end, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, take a heart and make a new eco electricity law, perhaps also according to the German model, because it has been proved that it is not only targeting and will be easier to achieve some Kyoto goals that you have set yourself, but above all, because it is of course also important for the economy. Germany has managed to obtain 250 000 additional jobs in this area over the last five years! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12393	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Themessl is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12458	The next speaker is Mr Grillitsch. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12479	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we are all in agreement in the goal that we need a law that makes us safer and more independent to supply, creates jobs through the use of domestic potentials with new technologies, and at the same time contributes to the protection of the environment when it comes to ensuring CO2-neutral, sustainable energy production for Austria. That is why I can really say today that reason has prevailed that the many interests of industry, industry, environmental organisations and agriculture have been placed in this law. I would particularly like to thank our two Federal Ministers Martin Bartenstein and Josef Pröll for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: Why do you thank the ministers? That's their job!]] Mr President, here in Parliament too, we have ultimately made our contribution and improved a number of points in this law, so that we can meet the objective of increasing the share of green electricity from 7.8 percent to 15 percent in the coming years, by 2015. Mrs Glawischnig speaks of the need to take care of migration from rural areas because it is also a matter of infrastructure and energy supply. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] This law also provides people with work on the spot, income on the spot and investment on the spot! Finally, this means that the value added remains in the region and that we do not experience a drop in purchasing power in Arab and Russian countries, but that the purchasing power remains here in the country, in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Of course it comes to...! A tie doesn't make a plan yet!]] By 2015 for example, we save 5 million tonnes of CO2. This eco electricity law is therefore also an appropriate climate protection law, ladies and gentlemen, a good law that fully takes this into account. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: A Climate Protection Prevention Act!]] The questions for photovoltaics and small hydropower are also well dealt with here. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Go! But not at all!]] Here too, there will be a boom: with the 10 000 roof programme, for small installations with appropriate investment support from the climate fund, for larger installations with corresponding tariffs under the Eco electricity Act. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker:... but nobody else believes!]] Mr Veit Sale – Unfortunately, you are not here, but I will tell you personally – believe me: If this law also takes ablauge into account, and I say this also because of responsibility for the rural regions, then it is about securing jobs in these regions! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: The Lex Pöls!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For the investments in Pöls, also through this eco electricity law, secure 450... – Mrs. Lichtenecker! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: This is a distortion of competition you are doing!]] Say that you are opposed to jobs in rural regions! – Come on You're out, and you're public! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: We ensure that Pöls...! But not you!]] We save 450 jobs in Pöls! As a result of the investments, there is a return rate for 5 000 to 6 000 people in the region and for the domestic forestry there is a surplus of 500 000 solid metres of wood. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker:... after the money!]] Regional value added is the motto of this eco electricity law, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Finally make economic promotion!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] I hope you finally get it. Test Not only do you always copy our eco-social market economy, but hopefully you can get it, Mrs Colleague! This is really a policy of sustainability. [[Abg. Sburny: Explain it to us once!]] This is the economic principle of sustainability set out in this eco electricity law.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12714	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12735	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! The appearance of the previous speaker was significant for what is going on here: There is an amendment, and the two speakers who make the amendment have not been able – or do not want it or can not – to explain what the content of the amendment is! Instead, the Klubobmann of the ÖVP is speaking in a debate on the Rules of Procedure, trying to save what is to be saved, and throwing a few pieces in the Rules of Procedure, which could be meant in substance. It's just a mess! You have proved that probably most of you – as we do, but we admit it! – not able to decrypt on the fast, which is in here. But you try to do here as if you were the wisdom With the spoon you would have eaten – and with it you will draw the picture that is now coming to the public about the driving and working of the parliamentarians! Now it is really time to start distinguishing between government groups and opposition groups as to what this is all about. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's what you're doing on a tour! Again: In the content debate, the applicants were unable to refer to the content of their request, but the clubman in the joint debate is acting as if he had understood it. Maybe he really understood, I think he's an intelligent person, but he's got to rework with you. We will make the sample on the example and then keep an eye on what it looks like with the understanding. But now on the matter itself. – Mr Federal Minister, the Green Group has tabled a motion of censure, and I very much believe that this needs further reasons. It is not enough if you have prepared a bill which is then adopted by the majority here. That's a normal process, that's right. But I say to you that you have also committed enough mistreatment in your executive behaviour in recent years, and above all in your preparatory actions as regards the management of economic and energy policy, so that this mistrust is justified. Let us start with the e-control, an in itself independent authority, but essentially on the tape of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, your home. This is a scandal for itself. What does that authority do? – It operates in the public with wrong numbers! This has to be said in public: An independent authority shall act with false figures, having regard to this law, as regards the cost of the eco electricity. Let us once again raise the question of economic importance and the economic accounts with regard to the operating economy; this alone would be worth a discussion, but it is now leading too far. This you negate, it's understandable, because you're an agent of the Industrial Union yourself. We're still going to lead the evidence. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] But even in business calculations, this is your authority, which you are ultimately conducting with, so that the energy regulator explains a multiple too high cost burden for households and industry from the Eco electricity Act. Apart from the fact that it still remains nationally reasonable. You have the responsibility because you do not intervene and may be behind these things. These numbers are tendencyal and false! But it's even worse: These numbers are advertised by the e-control. A few years ago, there were “profile” listings in which the e-control pointed out how terrible this is with the eco-strom. That's absurd! We do not have this authority to do so. I ask you: With what money does the e-control operate here? What money is thrown out to spread untruths? The last point in this context: It is also significant and treacherous that this Quasi campaign of an in itself independent authority was completely synchronized with a campaign of the Industrial Union. The industrial association began already in the early 2000s by torpedoing all these ecologically meaningful measures, laws, promotions et cetera! You can read this in the publications there. With a corresponding delay of time, therefore, the independent authority comes and checks it. You know, that was the time when the Industrial Union held a finance minister here in the house and in the government! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You, Mr Federal Minister, are sending to become a worthy successor of this minister, who has acted and operated on the gangband of industry. Now You are the one, the face in the government, which essentially represents the interests of the large industry. You are the agent of the large industry, and that is why this distrust is justified! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you come with your arguments – whether this concerns hydropower expansion or other things – then leave the church in the village! They also fail in a completely different point, namely, to invest at last in improving efficiency, especially in the field of electricity use and electricity consumption. We have increase rates of 2.3 per cent per year! This is devastating, but nothing is done. The plan you have published contains the target of a 1 percent reduction in consumption. It's no wonder it's the way it goes, because nothing is done! Now, to refer to other hydroelectric power plants – you can already talk to us about it, and you will also get our consent for one project or another – and to do so in a large way, as if the relatively modest residual potential in Austria, which is still to be installed somewhere, without enhancing nature conservation, is supposed to be the salvation, that is completely absurd! They have nothing but expansion plans that can't go that way. Only this increase, which is finally in check, is the annual work of a Danube power plant – so that you can finally see the dimensions. Assuming dimensions – and coming to a close –: Mr Federal Minister, trust is also a failure to you because you have for years ignored what has long been clear, what is actually the main problem today and what has also been the subject of the current hour: the development of the oil price. There are scarceer resources behind that. These are the economic questions of the future! have still in 2004/2005 You here claim that the oil price per barrel – I quote you now – will go back to $35 per barrel. Bartenstein: He's not expecting an oil price shock. No, 35 dollars per barrel – to my confrontation that this will take a different development. You don't want to understand it, or you can't understand it! Both are a reason for mistrust.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12847	The next item is Mr Wenninger. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12869	Mr President. High house! If Mr Kogler is concerned about Parliament's appearance, then of course one must also worry if a law that has been discussed for months, which is intensively discussed in the committees today, is to be blocked with questions from the Rules of Procedure, and on the other hand the alternative proposals – neither in committee nor here in the House today – are to be made bad under the motto "It is nothing, but nothing is too little". [[Calls for Greens]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have, of course, seen very clearly in the process of the creation of this law and also in today's debate, that there are different economic and social interests and that there are, of course, discussions about which forms of economic promotion, which forms of the promotion of energy production on the one hand are ecologically meaningful and, on the other hand, economically acceptable. [[Abg. Sburny: What does the amendment say?]] [[Abg. Sburny: Explain this!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Explain it to us!]] The fact is – and this should be undisputed – that today's decision will increase the share of green electricity to 15 percent and that there will be a reduction of 6 million tonnes in CO2. That is to say, the result is a tangible one and brings us a step closer to the common Kyoto objective. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is also about the economic conditions that are set by them. This €500 million in additional funding, coupled with the investments that the Austrian Federal Government will make in the field of research and development and in the public transport development programme, will bring new job opportunities to the Austrian business location in the field of research and development and will also transfer Austria as an energy business location on the international market. However, I would also like to address the question of distribution justice. There has been a great deal of discussion in this debate about the special promotion of both agriculture and industry. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that the Austrian budgets also provide a respectable intermediate to the achievement of climate targets with this innovation. The SPÖ will be happy to give its approval to this step towards energy autarchy, towards better security of supply and towards achieving the climate protection objective.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12938	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Hofer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12959	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The good first: It's not all bad. Undoubtedly, this novel is an improvement compared to the last text of the law. But energy autonomy and security of supply cannot yet be discussed. That is a fact when you look into the truth. Because there are many things we need to do better. With this innovation, we have agreed on our goal of reaching an eco electricity share of 10 percent by 2010. We now take the year 2015 into view and want to reach 15 percent, which is in the next legislative period. There's still a cover. I believe that the cover is not the right way because we know that due to the damping effect on renewable energies, due to the Merit order effect, there is an argument that you can also give up on this cover. Because the Federal Minister has referred to the EEG and the discussion in Germany: I still believe that the German EEG is a truly useful model, which has been adopted by many, many countries. The fact that Germany is behind Austria's share of renewable energy is obvious because we are lucky to have mountains as a small country and water – and water is known to flow down – and so far we have been able to use hydropower to a very high degree. I am also in favour of the use of hydropower Austria has a rich treasure of a renewable resource with hydropower, which is to be further expanded in addition to wind power, in addition to geothermal energy, in addition to photovoltaics and in addition to biomass. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the question of energy autonomy or the declining dependence on oligarchs, sheikhs and fossil energy sources is also a social question. We experience this in days like this, where fuel is becoming increasingly expensive, where heating is becoming increasingly expensive, in which food prices are also increasing, among other things. That means we have to reduce our dependence. A very important measure in this context is that we not only rely on domestic renewable resources but also reduce our consumption. This is very, very good in the area of thermal rehabilitation. We should therefore really start a thermal rehabilitation offensive which significantly reduces consumption in Austria. I would also like to make a motion for a resolution which deals with the improved tax deductibility of rehabilitation costs. [[Quoted print version removed]] Background: If you take up a loan today and with this loan you clean up your house, you can claim interest and repayment tax. If you save and clean up with the saved money, then you don't have this option. We want to change that. Since the opposition also has the task of criticizing not only what it does not like, and an opposition party who wants to assume responsibility has the obligation to bring in its own ideas, I propose another motion for a resolution which is very comprehensive. I should therefore like to distance myself from reading the text of the decision. The issue here is that we can put in place a whole series of measures to make Austria more independent. This starts with such small things as that electrical equipment in stand-by operation should not consume more than one watt. – I think the SPÖ has already applied for this. However, it is also a matter of ensuring that there are residential ventilation systems with heat recovery in public buildings, that there is independent energy advice in the federal states, that the connection between the forced power plants operated at fossil to be terminated and the donor was given the opportunity to exchange his consignor's fee for an ÖBB annual ticket. So he can decide whether to take the shuttle fee or an annual public transport ticket. Solar cooling in public administration buildings – all these are things we can implement. I have also mentioned the eco electricity law here again and suggested that we orient ourselves to the German EEG. And it is also important for us to speed up the production of the building energy ID. – This application is distributed. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria is a great country. We have skilled people, capable entrepreneurs. We have above all a healthy nature with rich renewable resources. We use these renewable energy resources for our energy supply, and we do not make ourselves dependent on Sheikhs, Oligarchen and Group!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13057	Mr Van den Broek, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13120	The second request by Mr Ing. Hofer on concrete measures in the sense of climate protection was explained in the cornerstones and is distributed in the hall because of its size, which is also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13233	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13255	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The various and so important measures contained in the novel of the eco-electric power law have already been discussed in detail by my previous speakers. I would also like to underline what Mr Grillitsch meant by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany: An important step is this law also for the Styria, for the top Irish paper and pulp company in Pöls. I think it is also very important for us to say yes to climate protection, that is to say, to extend the eco electricity law, to its further development. In this context, regarding the article in the current “profile” of Peter Pilz: I work in six committees. And that's not just research committees like Peter Pilz's. I also cooperated with the Ecostrom Act, also in terms of content. Although Mr Pilz is not present now, he may be among the voters who, hopefully, do not choose him: I am neither unsuspecting nor disinterested, nor lazy in the committees, because I rarely let myself be represented. And I am one of the few who have a regional mandate – and that for over 14 years. In this context, I would like to say: What fungus has done with its “profile” article is a bottomless naughtiness – I don’t know if I get a call for it – and a more than bad nest pollution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I was personally very concerned, very concerned, and I do not think it is all right not to sit here, not to have a regional mandate, just to light up on committee of inquiry, not to recognize the content, but to talk big.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13298	Mrs Sburny's next speech. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13328	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Steibl, please do not recognise: We have an amendment, and those who have tabled it are not willing or able to explain what is inside. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] And I'm wondering, As a colleague, he spoke about all possible major acts of this request earlier, I asked what he was talking about. I don't know the amendments. So maybe he's talking about an application that wasn't discussed. In the one who lies before us, these great acts are not included. Since Mr Weninger – if that was his first speech today – was sorry, I didn't know that – so talked about Parliament's referral to the eco-strom request, my guess was that he's been here for a long time. This presumptuousness, to say that it has been discussed forever, and to present eight pages to us today, which we have never seen in life, however, I also think that one who gives his first speech is an expression – I am sorry. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's right!]] As far as the government itself is concerned, it does not seem to be very convinced of its own programmes. Not only that you do not comply with the objectives of the new EU Directive, which sets an increase of 23 to 34 percent in total energy consumption by 2020 as a goal: You have 45 percent in your own government program – and from that you are something like that from miles away! With this ecostromnovelle, nothing can be reached, and you know that very well. Well, if someone's small-minded, it's probably the government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What are you trying to make us know? . They are trying to make us aware that this innovation is an essential step forward in the field of renewable energy. The opposite is the case! There is not enough funding, for example, in the first law adopted in 2004. Yeah, you're all pulling the axles. I wonder – and I think you have to ask yourself that in politics: Why did you put it that way back? What are the interests of this if you so back up renewable energy and in return promote and subsidize oil and, for example, now, instead of supporting the producers of renewable energy in the small, economic regional sector – if we are already talking about economy – instead of promoting five megagas power plants? We shall still see what the price will be, so to speak, because the gas is just as dependent on oil in terms of pricing. So you can and must ask yourself as a Member of Parliament: What are the interests behind it? Who do you feel on the part of the government is actually committed if you are promoting oil on the one hand, but do so little in the renewable energy sector – “nothing” I don’t want to say, because the polemic is not so much of mine? You're doing too little, and you know that very well. Finally, to explain this once again, because it is also a very... - How to say? . They simply say the untruth here to express it discreetly with regard to the green initiatives, the initiatives of the opposition in general. So, as far as the Greens are concerned, We have introduced several templates in the fields of feed-in law, acceptance, pricing, energy efficiency. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection alone, only the ten requests you refuse to deal with are to be dealt with. So: What are you talking about with your petty law, which is still based on a lot of information that no one can understand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13384	The next speaker is Mr Kirchgatter. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13406	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Without a doubt, climate policy is one of the greatest challenges of our time. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: When does this happen to our government?]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] It is in the nature of the fact that the opposition sees a lot different, but I think that the current eco electricity law and the CHP law and the climate and energy funds meet the challenges, and the international comparison is actually a confirmation of that. The international comparison can be seen, also with regard to the number and quality of the Austrian companies dealing with energy efficiency and renewable energy, which are very successful. The new, improved framework conditions will further strengthen this. I would particularly like to mention the many very encouraging regional initiatives. This also includes the very successful annual energy saving fair in Wels, which has also become a platform for dialogue with internationally recognized personalities from science and research. Our energy spokesperson Hannes Bauer has already pointed out the increase in funding for green electricity by a quarter, the expansion of the district heating network, the promotion of photovoltaics and the promotion of small hydroelectric power plants. It is also important for the employees in the Austrian industry to promote investment in the use of ablauge. I'll finish. Good conditions are created for a socially compatible energy transition and for a genuinely safe supply of Austrian households, consumers, small and medium-sized enterprises, industry.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13446	The next speaker is Mr Ferdinand Maier. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13471	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We all follow the price trend on the oil market and also have to note that the barrel has already been recorded at $135. Now we're a little down. Of course, it is also a fact that the gas price has actually increased by three times since the beginning of this year, resulting in an incredible increase in household costs, in particular with regard to electricity bills. That is why this eco-law is an answer to this development and an alternative because we can decouple a little. Regardless of that, I think the initiative that this law could take is extremely important if we look at our regions, because that means nothing but investment in the regions, that is, jobs in the regions, that is, of course purchasing power in the regions and at the same time CO2 savings in the regions. That is why I think this is an important impulse, which is also based on this law in the sense of the climate change campaign. I therefore hope that this law will have broad support.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13507	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. – Would you like me to give you a speaking time? - That's not the case. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13529	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Steibl has made a speech to which it is worth answering. First of all, however, on the fundamental issue: We have received an 8-page amendment. What is contained in these eight pages of amendments has not yet been able to explain to us any speaker of a government party or a speaker of a government party. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not enough for us to do so at the end of the day as if we knew about what is contained in this request. That is certainly not enough and no preparation! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! My colleague Werner Kogler pointed out to you that for the second time after the debate we had at the end of last year, the image that Parliament is giving to the public, it is a devastating, disastrous one and it will be this time too. A Parliament is voting on provisions which would, of course, overshadow the individual Members during the vote. So there are no conditions to be able to actually decide. One cannot even say that at least the experts in the respective political groups know what is inside. Let me give you an example, ladies and gentlemen. I do not know whether you are all clear, and I do not know whether this is now being changed by the amendment – I suppose it has not been changed – that the company Pöls in Styria is being considered with an exclusive provision and that the investment support for a single company is being amended by a law that you and we are to decide here today by the Eco electricity Act, by a single amendment provision. I do not know if it is clear to you that the Federal Minister has obviously increased the funding from 20 to 30 percent on behalf of Pöls. Perhaps the amendments contain a further increase to 40 percent? I have not yet been able to discover this, but perhaps the Federal Minister will explain this amendment to us. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I come to what Mr Steibl said about Mr Pilz. You do not have to agree with the Member of Parliament Pilz and with what he wrote in the comment. I don't agree either. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Bravo!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, for the picture that we are producing here on the occasion of such votes, you bear the responsibility. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I already know that it is all our problem that the legislator, so we here, still could not decide what we are in favour of a kind of Parliament, a representative parliament or a working parliament. Is it necessary for Members who work full time and exclusively parliamentary, or is it legitimate that Members also have other jobs? This is a question that could be discussed very objectively, only: They have been refusing this debate for years, and that is the problem. What you are doing here with this request is confirming the fact that you are not interested in having a serious debate on the role of Members, nor in having a serious debate on the content of the Eco electricity Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13580	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13602	Mr President. Of course, there are different points of view among the parties that are discussing this eco electricity law here today. However, I believe that the energy question and the question of the future of energy is not a question of parties, but a national question – of course, with different accesses. We have experienced this today in the current hour, in which the opposition – in part entitled, in part unlawful – has brought in its demands and Mr Hofer has also said some very positive things. For me, the Ecostrom Act is a good law because we are right about it. The infrastructure boom worldwide, which I have selected today from a specialist magazine, is expected to cost 11 trillion dollars by 2030 in order to meet global energy needs. – That is to say, we in Austria are not talking about 11 trillion dollars, but we are talking today about certain sums that we use ecologically very well in the eco electricity. Rightly, we invest in ecostrom and not in nuclear power. The amendment is, of course, a compromise, but a good compromise between the two government parties. The chief negotiators Bartenstein, Head and Bauer have negotiated well, and I think it can be seen that in the next few years we will save up to 5 million tons of CO2. But one more important point at the end: We confess ourselves clearly and clearly to the hydropower too! For us, hydropower has an economic and ecological priority! We will save 3 million tonnes of CO2 in the next few years through this Master Plan. We Austrians have the “white gold”, and I think we should invest in our hydropower. We are proud to invest there, and I hope that the Greens too will be proud if Austria invests in an ecological product: in the future of hydropower, in the future of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13639	Mrs Dr. Brinek spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would like to draw your attention to the provisions of § 58 of the Rules of Procedure. 2 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13663	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! With regard to the status and self-definition of parliamentarians, Mr Oellinger said that these were disspositions: We have to decide who we are here and whether we want to be active or not. The fact is that this is not the disposition, but we are, like the experts like Theo Öhlinger and so on, a so-called military system. That is, we “have our professions in it, ” we draw from our professional qualifications our knowledge, and it is even necessary to practice these professions. So it's not about the disposition, but it's decided who we are here and how we define ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13699	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13720	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! Yes, that's how the Greens as a professional politician do! – We are of a different opinion, we are still in a firm position with our profession and therefore we know how to make laws – including this eco electricity law, which has also come about in the field of tension between climate protection, renewable energy and with regard to the cost-effectiveness. That is why this novelle is also a corresponding consensus and a step in the right direction, because we are protecting the climate better in the future, we are forcing renewable energy more strongly, we are becoming more independent – I believe that is a very essential point – and we are boosting the new technologies – that is, we are doing something for research and development – we are driving the domestic economy – and that from industry to farmers! – we secure jobs, and we also open up additional income opportunities for domestic farmers. All this is done by a minister of the economy together with an Environment Minister, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, are going to make a request for distrust. – I believe that this is really a huge unfrozenness, and I find it totally incomprehensible. That's probably how you catapult yourself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You also go here and now praise the law of 2004 and say that it was a super law, although you voted against it. – So, you really don't know what dance floor you're on. [[Abg. Sburny: Comparative! ...distinguish! ...as good as the present, you will understand!]] That is, I believe, the proof that you simply don't want to join, as is the case with the hydropower, for example: You may agree to a careful extension for a long time, but you too are against it. That means that you are actually driving everything towards nuclear energy – and you are against it too. So there is complete misunderstanding, unfortunately also in the direction of the other opposition parties, FPÖ and BZÖ, who believe that there would be too little looking at photovoltaics or wind power here. – That’s not true, and it has been proved, just about the photovoltaics! That's what it says: from 3 megawatts to 16 megawatts, and I think that's a huge step in the right direction. So we're not just talking about green electricity, we're acting as well. And I would say that the opposition is even behind the energy turnaround here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13761	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13784	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Sburny, although I cannot fully share the criticism of the subject – there are some aspects where I can do so – I share your criticism in the following area. As part of the Chancellor's Party, I must say: It is not okay that you did not get the amendments yesterday evening or today. [[Abg. Sburny: Today! Today!]] I would say that would have been possible at least yesterday evening. – This is my access to it. I am allowed to deal with two side-by-side measures of this eco-energy law, two side-by-side measures, which, at first sight, do not have a ‘Austria-moving’ effect, but which have a direct positive impact on consumers – so much to Mr Colleague's sound about costs and not social justice. The first measure is the innovation of the heating billing law. That doesn't sound dramaticly positive, but I know from my own experience as a politician that it's because I've supported consumers for years, including through processes and court proceedings, so that they can get their right to a correct heating bill. – With this injustice of not having access, it is now over, and consumers have a right to review and correctness. The second area is social justice, and I would like to thank in particular the SPÖ Group and Mr Colleague “Johnny” Bauer, who is something like a politician with economic, energy and social competence, for the fact that those people who are among the poorest and poorest in Austria, namely, minimum pensioners, those people we are going to include in basic security, are freed from the payment of the additional costs related to the counter-point fee. I think it's great that in the last hours, minutes and seconds last night, this was also realized, because there were no problems in terms of content in this question, but in terms of how to administer it. In this context, I think, criticism is always appropriate – we should all get better – but this eco-energy law, because it concerns much more than just the electricity, and the parliamentary work of the two negotiators head and, in particular, those of colleague "Johnny" Bauer, although much is still worthy of improvement, outstanding because the starting position was not good: There was a unanimous decision in the Council of Ministers with a title, but without a text. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13828	The next speaker is Mr Steindl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13849	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I am glad that we will adopt this eco electricity law today or perhaps tomorrow because it will ensure our advantage in Europe in environmental and energy policy. There are a number of measures which, on the one hand, strengthen the planning safety of eco-electric plant operators and hydro-power operators, on the other hand, take a lot more money in order to expand the basis of possible renewable energy. It also takes into account the location and allows for a fair distribution of costs – after all, consumers pay a large part of it. About €45 will cost per household and year, the other part will take over the enterprises. As an entrepreneur, I am really glad that this is set at 0.5 percent of the net production value. Let me also make an international comparison here: We are in excellent fourth place in Europe with a share of 23 percent. For example, the EU climate target for 2020 is 20 percent, so we are on the go. If you only compare Switzerland with Austria – and I think you can compare them well – Switzerland has a similar CO2 emission to Austria, but with an atomic current ratio of 40 percent. Finally, I would like to say a word to the Green Group: It is not enough to make climate and environmental policy or energy policy by means of contradictory and unrealistic measures and proposals. The performance will not be better achieved by acting with unqualified measures such as this today's distrust against our Minister Bartenstein. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] In this sense: Minister, congratulations on this law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13894	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13916	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Mrs. State Secretary! I would very much like to talk more generally about the energy and energy price situation, so that it becomes clearer how important eco electricity legislation and eco electricity activities in Austria are in the overall picture. We know from an up-to-date study that in energy prices, production prices are around 40 to 45 percent of total electricity costs, charges for grid operators are between 20 and 30 percent, and taxes are between 30 and 35 percent of costs. The share of green electricity costs for households is 1 percent, with industrial enterprises even 5 percent. It is also known that electricity prices are roughly the same as in 1998. The changes in the cost structure have resulted from lower network charges, which the network operators and the regulator have so to speak, but this has, of course, been re-fatted by increased wholesale prices and production costs. Of course, we know that primary energy is very much dependent on the cost of production, because we still have very high shares in gas power plants and coal power plants in Europe as a whole. In this study now presented by Kearney, we see that from August 2004 to December 2007, prices in the natural gas sector were 19 percent, coal by 11 percent and even crude oil by 22 percent. We are, of course, talking about an area which is not necessarily a large, very market-oriented area, but we know that oligopole and the competition problem in this market pose great problems for us to keep price developments under control, so there is a demand from our judge to the competition authority to act here. We know and we see but Also that the eco electricity is not really the price driver of electricity costs, and therefore one should not be afraid of it either. What I wish for is that we should invest the CO2 certificates in which we will be investing in the next few years in a volume of €500 million, in particular for certificates purchases on foreign projects – which will then be carried out in part by Austrian investors – and also provide municipalities with energy-saving measures or technological innovations. I am thinking specifically of an innovation of Austrian origin: There are new LED street lights that could bring energy savings for municipalities between 60 and 90 percent in this field of outdoor lighting, which are very durable and are a very innovative Austrian development. I could really imagine that the legislator is taking a decision to convert all external lighting systems to LED technology throughout the next five years in Austria, enabling the birth of a new Austrian industrial field, so to speak. Let me also briefly talk about another factor, which is the Leipzig Energy Exchange EEX. We know that this stock exchange in Leipzig is a very lively stock exchange, but today there is a problem with all the exchanges on which commodities and commodities are traded, that hedge funds work there, and that these hedge funds have a massive impact on price formation on these exchanges. Therefore, real capital should find itself and say: On these exchanges, which act, market and trade viable raw materials, should really only be place for customers and buyers, i.e. hedge funds should be taken from these exchanges. In this sense, I believe that I have brought in some points that are not so much related to the eco-power law-novelle itself, but which highlight the importance of the eco-power law-novelle throughout the energy problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13971	Mr Klubobmann spoke. Dr. Van der Bellen. You do not wish to have a speaking time, Mr Klubobmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13992	Mr President. I would like to take the opportunity to describe this unusual situation today and the measures we will take against it today and in the future. Ladies and gentlemen. I regard it as an open provocation by the government parties, in the middle of the session, in the middle of the debate, to propose an octagonal amendment to a complex matter without any difficulty. Honestly, I consider this to be an open provocation by SPÖ and ÖVP, regardless of whether the changes that are contained in it and which we cannot judge at present are important, whether the insertion error or anything else is irrelevant. It is enough that there are still five constitutional provisions to say and write about, and none of us can ‘check for speed’, which is what it is all about. But the government parties are acting in accordance with business rules here. The Rules of Procedure allow such conduct, namely, to be carried over through the opposition parties and their own Members, as if it were the case and nothing else. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Bravo!]] This is by no means just about dealing with the government parties with the three opposition parties, it is also – and I am really surprised that you are able to do so – about the conduct of your own Members, towards the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] If such an 8-page request is made available at 10.30 p.m., do not come to me with your own Members knowing what they have debated at the speaker's desk. In this way, you are degrading Parliament into a farce – not only as far as the opposition parties are concerned, but also as far as you yourself are concerned! I've already said: This is a business-regulation-compliant approach of the government parties – beautiful! The Rules of Procedure have not been aware of such behaviour, I think, but they allow it. – We can do that too! We can also: It is in accordance with the rules of business to demand a nameable vote, and it is not illegal to be present in person in such a national vote. That is why we called for 39 votes to be taken on the amendments. - That's what I'm looking at! [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Of course, you can miss these 39 votes if you agree to the referral request to the Committee. Mr Zögernitz von der ÖVP informed me – and he is an excellent expert in the Rules of Procedure – that the vote on the referral request is now happening immediately, that is, after the end of this debate, regardless of whether the President-in-Office or the President is moving the vote on the content of the Eco electricity Act to the evening or not. If you agree to the referral request to the Committee, then our request is practically complete, because then there is no vote today, not even a natural one. But in the meantime, you may be able to think about how long that takes. How long does a nameable vote take, Mrs von der SPÖ? [[Call the SPÖ: A quarter of an hour!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Half an hour!]] A quarter of an hour, half an hour, we make a compromise, we say it takes 20 minutes. This time 40 is 800 minutes – that is 12 or 13 hours that pass with a natural vote. This is an emergency measure, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! [[In the case of greenery, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] We do not let you offer us such an approach anymore. You have another chance: Voices To the request for referral back to committee! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14088	Mr Glaser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14110	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I hope in all our interest that this threatened draconian voting process does not come about. I assume there will be a solution. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is yours!]] I assume that this can be clarified formally. But I would like to come back to the matter, and I would like to say that, in my opinion, the opposition’s cash-and-run calls, as far as this eco- electricity law is concerned, are absolutely unwarranted; for this eco- electricity law is a good step towards more alternative energy, a good step towards meeting our Kyoto targets, and thus also a mosaic to get a little grip on climate change. It has already been said several times today that it is the explosion-like increase in the roaming journey, which is driving energy prices as a whole. I therefore believe that this development can only be countered by alternatives that can be achieved on the broadest possible regional basis. I should like to refer specifically to an energy form, namely the use of biogas plants. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer to a study by the Darmstadt Institute of Eco-Institute, where it is found that biogas plants are the most efficient form of energy generation when it comes to CO2 emissions. When producing a kilowatt hour of electricity from biogas, 409 grams of CO2 are saved. Wind power plants are comparable to 24 grams and hydropower plants are 40 grams that are saved. This bill therefore clearly speaks in favour of biogas plants, which I believe must also say that biogas plants are also very positive for other environmental reasons. Just remember that in this way waste such as jauche, dirt and dung are not so much disposed of or reused as it is smelly. Overall and in conclusion, I would like to note that with this law today we are taking a further step towards good eco electricity legislation, which regulates the financial burden of old biogas plants, achieve a proper improvement in photovoltaic plants, and thus continuously and reasonably develop eco electricity legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14146	I call Mr Strache. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14168	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only agree with what Klubobmann Van der Bellen said. We are not often of the opinion, but when it comes to democracy and parliamentarism in this way, as it is once again the case today, being trampled with feet – albeit in accordance with business rules – then the opposition must show closeness! It cannot be that you believe you can continue with this method à la “Speed kills” – as you have already celebrated and lived here several times. It cannot be said that you believe that today we are dealing with an amendment with five constitutional amendments without a committee dealing with it before. Today, we have discussed a matter in which your own Members, your own clubs of SPÖ and ÖVP, may not even have known the content of your amendment! I can only confirm that today, as an opposition, we want to take this emergency defence measure for democracy and parliamentarianism. I think that we also need to think about changes in the Rules of Procedure – in view of the way in which you use them again and again in this area. I can only advise the government in its work to ensure that laws and constitutional changes are prepared accordingly, so that a committee can: papers will be submitted in good time and we will be able to discuss and vote on them in Parliament as planned. What you've been living here once more is a sense and provocation. This shows self-glorious, pre-potential behavior and is sad and not worthy of this house. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think that, in view of the natural vote that has been called for today for these 39 points, you have the opportunity to go a little bit in and agree to the referral request. I think that is the basic condition for a fair and correct conduct in this matter, namely: Reference request to the Committee, discussion in the Committee, then new item on the agenda, another discussion here, and then please vote! - That's the correct process. It's up to you to make sure. If not, the opposition must resort to business rules in order to prevent such practices for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14231	Mr Hörl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14252	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! From my point of view, the current novel of the eco electricity law would be a good compromise. [[Abg. Oillinger: What variant?! What are you talking about?- Oh, my God!]] It takes into account the problems of biogas plant operators. Investment grants are made for photovoltaics and small hydroelectric power plants. I believe that in the case of eco electricity, we are trying to promote energy forms that do not achieve a corresponding price on the market so that we can get rid of gas and oil. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Say something about number 17!]] In these one and a half years, I experience a responsible Federal Minister, who is too hard on the record, seeking a compromise, taking into account economic efficiency, caring for jobs in this country and unit costs, and trying to find a reasonable compromise here – and you are therefore coming and making a request for distrust! That is, I believe, no way of dealing with the issues. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls for Greens and FPÖ.]] We all want to get away from oil and gas and to hydropower. But a Federal Minister, who thanks God on the one hand, looks at the jobs, and on the other hand, that we have reasonable costs in this country to meet with a distrust proposal, is a scandal. Since you spoke about TIWAG today, I would like to tell you the following: The TIWAG produces and sells the cheapest electricity energy throughout Austria. In Tirol we save 100 € per household because TIWAG still belongs to us – to the difference from Carinthia, where they have already sold it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] I think you should see this with a little more serenity. The Federal Minister has my full confidence. Besides, I congratulate him on his birthday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14332	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14354	I too wish you all the best on your birthday today! We too, of course, have been happy to join in this business regulation-compliant opposition-party cross-border military action against the government parties. I am glad that, as an important part of this House, at least the opposition parties stand behind their back legs and prove that there is agreement across party borders and that Parliament, parliamentarianism and the Members of this House cannot be dealt with as the two government parties do. That is why we welcome this action and, of course, we supported it; all the more so, Mr Klubobmann Cap and Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, because you are a repeater, because this is not happening for the first time today! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We've been inoculated several times and we've said okay. We heard: We'll look at this and make it better next time. In the case of Rules of Procedure debates here and in debates at the Presidential Session They always said with a loyal eyelash like a little dample: No, we'll never do that again! We've been taught a better one! We will never again confront Parliament in this way with short-term requests, which are eight pages long and include some legislative amendments. Mr Kopf and Mr Bauer – you are also mentioned as an applicant – are very much in mind, you are really valued and honourable colleagues, but I do not think that you can understand every single point here exactly as it stands in this proposal, I simply do not take that away from you. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Trunk and Mag. Worm.]] If that's not true, please prove to me the opposite. I just don't think so. Finally, we must stop including this Parliament more and more in the hostage of these two major government parties – with requests that are being put on the table and that we can no longer review. Therefore, this emergency action is good, right, important and takes place at the best time you can even choose. [[Congratulations with BZÖ, Greens and FPÖ.]] I am very, very glad that we now have an instrument in our hands together. So far, we have not known exactly how to resist it, but now we know it. Whoever thought it out – congratulations! We'll do it that way in the future. Every time you try again to gnaw Parliament so to speak, there will again be this slut of requests for a name-named vote – this is a wonderful business-regulation instrument. Van der Bellen has predicted: 39 applications correspond to ten hours. Then, with the vote on your own request, you will be going through about until tomorrow's Question Time. Then we'll get back to it and we'll be there too. The whole thing is really sad and not funny, so I urge you to finally agree to this referral. Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel, it is not possible to go through this now in the Husch-Puss procedure and say: All right, you're going to do some committee next time, we're going to discuss this a little bit, then we've discussed it, then we can say there was a committee, and then we'll decide again just tomorrow. I believe that this amendment also belongs to a decent, proper parliamentary procedure. in a committee, as should be the case with any law. I am therefore also opposed to a subsequent Husch-Puff procedure and think it is good that we have found this emergency action together. I'll invite you to: Accept the opposition of the referral!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14423	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap. Would you like to limit your speaking time? - No, I don't. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14444	First of all, I would like to reject the claim that Member Bauer would not know the law. He knows it very well, he negotiated it. Mr Kopf has done the same. Of course, both have contributed to these amendments. I would therefore like to make the most of this statement. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would, however, like to continue with what I said in the debate on the Rules of Procedure which took place on this case. I think the criticism of the opposition is correct. We have been trying for a year and a half to achieve a new concept, namely, “New Parliament”. This means that dealing with the opposition is another one, that the opposition must have enough time when there are templates, proposals for initiative or amendments; that it is involved that it can, of course, take a picture here in terms of content, and that it should also bring in an extensive amount of time. We are also trying to improve Parliament's image. We know the opinion of some outside this House, which is very critical. That, of course, is part of how we conduct debates and committee work here, how we present ourselves and how the opinion-forming processes are going about here. I have always considered it to be an unsituation if there have been amendments in the last few moments. This is not the first time today, it's an old problem. That has different reasons. Sometimes there are simply discussions or conflicts, but sometimes there is also an attempt – I say – to take the opposition the opportunity to practice criticism. It has already happened in the past that one has said: The shorter it knows the opposition, the less it can practice criticism. I don't think it's clean because it's supposed to be on the table in time. [[Abg. Let's keep it!]] This will give the opportunity to debate openly. This is a very crucial point if we are to give Parliament this importance, this respect and this respect. I also say quite openly to the government: We are among those who say that the relationship between Parliament and government must be close to the eye. From an emancipated, respected position, Parliament must have the opportunity to participate in the work of the lawmaking process, i.e. in the development of the templates, corrections, improvements and additional changes – even where good ideas are, to participate in it together with the opposition. That's why I'm saying: That was too short-term today, that's right. That is a fundamental question. We should try to give these 24 hours prior to the opposition even in the case of amendments. We should ensure that the opposition has the necessary time not only to know, to examine and analyse this, but also to give an extensive opinion here in plenary. This is only possible if the whole thing is referred back to the Committee if the matter is discussed in this Committee with this amendment and when the next plenary session comes back to the agenda. In the sense of this attitude, which we have been trying to do here for a year and a half, we shall vote in favour of this referral.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14496	Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14517	High house! The emotion would not have been appropriate, because we have already said before that we agree to this referral request. At the same time, however, we ask that a committee be convened as soon as possible, for an objective reason: After all, dozens of biogas operators and a number of investors depend on it, and history needs to be notified to the Commission. Once the whole thing is fixed and decided in a month, it will have significant economic consequences. [[Abg. Oillinger: Then we will hold a special meeting!]] Therefore, the opposition was asked to arrange for us to be able to recapture this legislative decision here in plenary as soon as possible. A second point: I would like to say very fundamentally – as I am quite different from my previous speaker Josef Cap: We must, I think, make a very precise distinction about what it is all about. On the other hand, I am against the fact that at the end of the day an eight-page proposal consisting of 95 percent pure quotations is put down – you can do just as well before. But I do not think there should be any political group – and this is what we Members are – that we should have the right to make proposals at second reading. This applies to the opposition as well as to the governmental parties. Professor Van der Bellen, it can't be that you put the rod in the window, that whenever government parties bring a motion for amendment in the second reading, then you come up with 40 requests for a name vote! In my opinion, this would not be an emergency defence, but rather an abuse of business rights, which, of course, exists. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why I very much plead for consideration in this situation. We have the message – yes, of course, I am talking about it, but I also say my opinion without now paying any consent. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: for your part too!]] You can meet tomorrow. I do not want you to make a request to us 24 hours before you make it to the second reading. If he had 40 pages, I think that would be correct; but I think we must find a reasonable way to deal with each other. Today we will do so with the referral back to committee. We will also call on the ministerial officials to make all these requests available in good time. We will also try to find common practices. But for it to fit together – I say now also in the direction of the Greens – we would have to leave both laws together. In terms of content, the Ökostromgesetz belongs to the Kraft-Wärme-Kopplungs-Law, and it would be a mistake if you tear it apart. I would therefore like to make the following request: If we refer back to item 1, please refer item 2 back to committee so that we can discuss this together.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14597	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. With regard to the Federal Act amending the Ecostrom Act, 562 of the Supplements present a referral request from Members Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and colleagues. I am seeking to refer back to the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs in 562 of the additions to those members of the House who are in favour of this draft federal law amending the Eco electricity Act. – This is unanimously accepted. The vote on the motions for resolutions and the requests to be submitted will be taken for now. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Schussel's request to refer the subject-matter of the CHP Act back to the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs in 563 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. The vote on the motions for resolutions and the requests to be put forward will not take place. [[13:01:58]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Tourism on motions for resolutions 772/A(E) by Mr Mag. Melitta Trunk, Franz Hörl, Dr. Gabriela Moser, Herbert Kickl, Josef Bucher, colleagues on “One-stop-shop” for promoters with climate-related support in the tourism sector (565 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14682	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Obernoster. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14712	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I mean being able to talk about tourism in this House is always a friend if you look at the development of the Austrian tourism industry in recent years. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] Especially in the last winter, the first time in the last half of the year, the 60-million-retirement limit has been exceeded. In 2007, we had over 121 million appointments in Austria. If you calculate what tourism brings to the Austrians per capita, we are – you can say that well – world champions. More than €1 600 is the per capita income for tourism. There are about 170 000 employees, and the gross domestic product of direct and indirect value added via tourism accounts for about 16.3 percent. In recent years, however, there has also been a great deal of investment in the tourism sector, and the government, our Federal Minister and the Secretary of State, have also taken a very strong grip on tourism over the ÖHT. About € 760 million have been handled through the ÖHT alone, i.e. through funding. The coordination of the resolution agencies from the Austrian hotel loyalty hand and the competent institutions of the countries works exemplaryly. It is only now that we are dealing with new support measures which, of course, are very much going into the energy sector. This means that the energy factor has also become a major cost factor for tourism companies. That is why we particularly welcome this climate fund with €500 million, where tourism will also have its access. But also through the municipal credit, a lot of heat saving facilities and investments is being handled. Especially today, a lot has been said about the load that energy is talking about. I would like to address this – it is still in my ear – what Mr Klubobmann Westenthal said: Carinthia is an example of how people are taken under the arms. To do this, I have to say: It's true, there's the hundred-tent compensation, there's now to be a 50-€-Benzinscheck. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: With your voices!]] But if we look in total at the burden on the country and the population, I would like to quote a study that is not mine, but an official study which refers to the period from 1985 to 2005. In Carinthia there has been the head of state Haider since 1995, i.e. for about ten years. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you are ruling in Carinthia!]] I would like to say that the burden of national taxes has increased by around 90 percent throughout Austria at this time. [[Call the ÖVP:Aha!]] Mr Westenthaler, Mr Klubobmann! Do you know how high the load in Carinthia has increased in the same period under a head of state Haider? – 202 percent! [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] I would like to present to you this graphic, which does not come from me, where Carinthia is clearly at the top of the country's charges. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You weren't there?]] And I say quite clearly here, I congratulate the government on its action. We know one thing: It's never enough. But I would also like to say something: I hope that this Republic will not be infected by tax policy in Carinthia. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14808	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14829	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. I think the end of the discussion of the last two agenda items has shown that sometimes with longer start-ups, more difficult steps and stumbling stones “government new” is possible. There have been mistakes, the consequence has been that this is referred to the Committee again. I should like to point out – not without pride for all of us, not for the SPÖ alone and for myself – that we have a different form of cooperation in the leisure and tourism committee. For it is not a coincidence, or it is not of little importance that we have jointly worked out and decided unanimously on all the requests made last year, which are on the basis of the government programme, in terms of content and material. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This way of sharing the coalition parties with the opposition parties can be a model and should also be a model for other areas in this House. It is necessary to take back a little bit of your own vanity, to go a little bit and to deal mainly with content and material with know-how, then you come to this way. Therefore also in all openness: Today's proposal actually has a history that has been 11 years old. So long there were efforts. There was no tourism committee back then. In the field of leisure and tourism, climate relevance, the energy issue, which is a problem for all companies in the Republic of Austria in the business sector, which is a problem for all companies to address in the form of applications, has not been possible in the last seven years. Today we are saying: at least step by step in the right direction. But, of course, this proposal includes the minimum variant of what the Socialist Group is proposing in this context. But as I said, One minimum of the other is also sometimes a total picture. Therefore, this route “One-Stop-Shop” for companies to get know-how, information and then, of course, to get the appropriate promotion is the first step. We know that the climate issue was one of the first issues we dealt with in the Tourism Committee. We were the first to make a very, very high-ranking conference and survey with many results. If I am in support, it is also – and this is a verbal promise made by the Minister, also in the Committee and in the public – that we must now make haste to really evaluate the previous funding structures, funding and funding criteria. That means: The Minister also said that it was a mistake, just the big one – let's call it by name – to have tourism companies in mind and to forget the little one a little bit. – That was not evil, but it was a different approach. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, in addition to climate relevance, we also have to vote on our promotions that small, small and medium-sized enterprises and family businesses have a chance to promote this Republic of Austria if we do not want them to be viable and viable due to the competitive and competitive situation. This is a task that we urgently need to face this year. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But not the Bear Valley!]] It's possible. A small example of this is that some children have a long prebirth phase: For seven years, the fight against the SPÖ’s project “Creation of Model Regions in Austria” has lasted – or has been shubled – because one meant that nothing will happen. It is from budget use that: Those model regions, which are rated as the best or the most typical four, receive €45 000 in tax resources to make innovative development and develop themselves. This is not a high level of budgetary commitment, but it is a recognition and an incentive for innovation in tourism and the leisure industry to finally be equated with the value of innovation in the rest of the economy and, for example, in the field of science. This means that innovation in tourism must not be luxury and hobby of individuals, but must be a basic principle if we want the framework conditions in the area of tourism to be sustainable. I think it is a positive sign for all of us that not one, two, three regions have applied. Many have meant that there is competition among the regions that would not work together. As I have learned, nearly 30 Austrian regions have applied! And this is a strong sign that there is an interest in cooperation beyond regions. I thank all the members of the Tourism Committee and all those - they know it themselves - who have spent more hours and time with us with one request or another.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14896	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14917	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! This proposal, which has been tabled by all the parties, is a sign of how parliamentaryism can really work positively. We have a common concern, we are working on it and we are voting together without any fractions. It is about this, and this means that companies in particular will be able to achieve a savings potential of 1.5 million tonnes of CO2 in a easier, administratively better way. I wish this one-stop shop principle not only for tourism companies, but generally for businesses. And I would particularly like to see individual budgets also supported by this simple variant of consulting and implementing measures to move forward towards energy change. I do not want to say more now, taking into account the collegial use of time, and I would just like to stress out once again: If systematic work is done on the basis of common progress, it is very likely that positive examples of positive legislation and decisions will be taken here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14948	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Houses with 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14969	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to join with my previous speakers and also to note that this proposal, which has been discussed jointly in the Committee on Tourism, is very positive and very useful for the Austrian tourism industry and, of course, has our support. However, I would also like to say that in the past we already saw a lot more for the tourism and the tourism committee and we should have done more and should have done more if we were to be left alone. What I miss and criticise is that Parliament – not we of the opposition – is not clear about its legislative competences and, in the main, the mandates of the ÖVP are in fact always rebuffed when it comes to implementing additional meaningful initiatives for tourism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederweiser]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I just remember that we have been in the Committee for a year and a half, with a view to increasing the allocation of Austrian tourism advertising, because the means of Austrian tourism advertising since 2002 It has less money available under the line than it did in 2002. And if you calculate these missing resources in inflation-adjusted terms, Austrian tourism advertising is now lacking a sum of between € 7 and € 10 million compared to 2002. It is very gratifying that, despite this reduced means, tourism has been able to make a very positive decision on the winter. This is mainly due to the fact that we have entrepreneurs who spray their heart blood around the clock in tourism and do everything to satisfy the guests. That's positive! Thank you, in fact, to the entrepreneurs who try to fill their businesses around the clock and achieve an utilization, which has also enabled these figures in the last winter, although the support from tourism advertising could be better. I'm saying it's time to get extra money. I would already expect that the Tourism Committee will prevail and we will succeed in implementing this increased donation for the Austrian tourism industry in the course of the discussion and decision-making on the double budget. [[As a result of the accident at the FPÖ as well as in the SPÖ's representatives.]] We know that very well internally – not to the outside! – leading leaders of tourism advertising already say that they need more money to be able to reach and edit new tourist markets intensively. In addition, an application has been in the Committee for more than a year and is subject to the decision-making process of strengthening the promotion of national regions. Of 66 nature parks and national parks there are at least 60 massive declines. And I think we really owe the national parks and nature parks more and more to help them that they not only provide us with the beautiful landscape for the image of Austria and the tourism industry, but that they can also successfully manage with this landscape, in this landscape. We have products. Only, these products need to be made known. And there is also a great deal of agreement. There too, the ÖVP slowed down. I would be very concerned that this initiative, which is facing implementation, will be implemented in the course of the double budget, namely the increased promotion of the marketing of tourist products in the national parks. [[As a result of the accident at the FPÖ as well as in the SPÖ's representatives.]] It's a very big concern to me, too. The consensus is in fact there between all the political parties involved in the Tourism Committee, and we also have a very positive dialogue climate. That's really undisputed, just: We need to implement more. We can achieve a lot more theoretically. Finally – because the red lamb is already flashing here – I would like to say: I too believe – and I have already put in several initiatives – that tourism SMEs must in particular be supported and promoted. It is not wrong for me to think of a number of special promotions, for example in the district where a five-star operation as a control company receives 25 percent lost grants. That's a lot. Control plants are necessary, but other establishments which have already done construction work for years in the district, which also have to carry out work, will be fed down with much more modest percentages. They don't understand! No one understands that no funding instruments are available to us, which will also help these already existing small and medium-sized enterprises. In this respect, I have taken initiatives. I hope that these initiatives, even if they are likely to have to be modified, will not be taken as a purely free initiative, which I am sure is. I am also quite willing to accept this modification if under the rule an improvement is made for the many small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Kickl.]] So under the line: Today's a good thing. It's still a lot to do. We have many initiatives to implement them. I hope that the Tourism Committee will still succeed in some major throw in the interests of the Austrian tourism industry and ask for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15062	The next speaker is Mr Bucher, who is speaking for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15084	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Climate change is certainly the biggest challenge in the coming years and decades. Hardly any industry other than the tourism industry is more interested in meeting climate change with targeted countermeasures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Let's look at the tourism companies: There are about 19 000 industrial housing companies that produce 1.5 million tonnes of CO2. This is a huge scale, because a lot of heat is required. Each one of us who visits a tourist facility, indoor pool, hotel or whatever, knows that he finds preheated rooms there. A indoor pool must always be heated, whether only one or hundreds bath in it. This supply of heat, of course, entails very high costs, and these are also reflected in the balance sheets of these companies. We wanted to achieve more with this request than “only” – under quotation marks – this first step, which, of course, is useful and important. We would like to see a targeted support for these tourism companies from the Climate Fund, from the 500 million who are set up there, so that we can help them efficiently – tax benefits for investments, especially in the conversion of premises, in the thermal renovation of buildings, in the energy efficiency improvement and in the conversion to renewable energies. These are important measures that are necessary if we are to achieve the climate objectives. We must not ignore tourism, of course they must be treated as all the other institutions of our country, if we continue to want to remain world tourism champions, and we must also take the appropriate measures and structures to ensure that the tourism industry continues to develop as positively as in recent years. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, I should like to say to Mr Obernosterer: That's his way of bringing things in here. But as the country tourism director of Carinthia, I know how much money has been poured out from the direct taxes into the tourist pot and how many are poured out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] I'll give you the comparison: We have around 20 million revenue on taxation, local tax, tourist tax – so that you know, also the colleagues in the ÖVP series – and spend over 50 million on tourism, tourism advertising, direct support for businesses et cetera, i.e. Many of what comes in from tourism charges. It is therefore not a bad support balance for the Carinthian tourism companies. I wish all tourism companies in the run-up to the European Football Championship good business, a lot of success and that this European Football Championship is as good as we all wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15150	The next item is Mrs Marek's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15171	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Trunk – although she is not in the hall right now, but I think she will hear it – has addressed the evaluation of the funding. In fact, we have also agreed on an evaluation for this period in the new directive for the ÖHT 2007 to 2013. Significantly, this has to be done after a representative period of time. I think there will be a first interim evaluation next year, and then let's look at that. I think that makes sense and is important for further development. Mr Hauser, you once again mentioned the increase in the budget for Austria's advertising. You know – we have often talked about it – that the ÖW is an association where the Chamber of Commerce and the BMWA pay. Therefore, a unilateral increase in the membership contribution does not make sense. That means we have to do well-balanced. Of course, it is true that with more money, more activities can be put in place, but I would like to stress that with the current budget resources, the public authorities are making an excellent job and that Austria really represents excellent worldwide and sets out very, very, very many activities. Mr Hauser, you have referred to the national parks and have said that there is a request for it in the Committee. It may be that in the stress of the Tyrolean Landtagswahl, some perception is somewhat distorted, because we have debated this already in the last plenary session. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hauser.]] The request was adopted unanimously at the last meeting of the Tourism Committee. Mr President, I was allowed to give a brief overview at the last meeting of the Committee on Tourism. It is already being worked very intensively on by our side – it is a task force set up in cooperation with the Ministry of Life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They know that due to the ecological sensitivity in national parks – it is the essence to preserve ecology – tourism marketing is particularly sensitive and difficult. We will discuss this again and again with the representatives of the Committee on Tourism and will surely find an excellent way between the departments, ours and the Ministry of Life. [[Abg. May. Houses: Not yet secured!]] So we have been very happy to take up this suggestion, and I can tell you about it and express the things positive, which may contradict your statements a little, but which is probably in the nature of the matter. I would like to come to the positive because tourism in and for Austria is an incredibly positive thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hauser.]] He is one of the central pillars of the Austrian economy; I would like to support this with a few figures. We have recently received the latest figures for the winter season 2007/2008, and we can really say it was a record winter, a great winter for Austrian tourism, starting with the sensational weather situation in November. Austrian tourism had more than 15 million arrivals, over 60 million nights and an increase in sales of more than 10 percent. I can only say: Shut up! The greatest respect for businesses and for employees in this area, really a great job and results that can be seen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and BZÖ.]] We have an increase of 6.6 percent in the nights. I find it particularly interesting that the numbers of foreign guests – for foreign guests there is an increase of 7.4 per cent, for domestic guests one of 4 per cent; thus, the increase in foreign guests is higher than in the Eastern European countries, with double-digit growth rates: Poland 32.9%, Czech Republic 27.7%, Hungary 10.8% and Russia 28.5%. This shows, I think, that we are rightly focusing on these guests. But there are also more German guests coming to Austria to make a holiday here – a plus of 6.4 percent shows us that. In all federal states, across Austria there are strong increases. I can point to a brochure, “Tourism in Austria 2007”, I have already presented it in the Committee, it is very current and downloadable on the homepage of our ministry. [[The speaker showed that:]] It summarises all of the figures, data, facts and background information for all those interested in tourism or active in this area. A very important issue is – and I would like to explain this before I come to this proposal – the EURO 08, the first game will take place in Austria on Sunday. It is particularly important from a tourist point of view, offers us many opportunities and hopefully is also effective in the long term. It is the most important and largest event this year in and for Austria and the third largest sporting event in the world. It is the question when we will again have an event of this dimension. This was the case last time in 1976 with the Winter Olympics in Innsbruck. After that, some of Austria's starters did not go so happy, so I would like to express a great pleasure at Schladming, which the World Ski Championships brought for the second time after 1982 in 2013. This will be a great thing for the region and for Austria as a whole. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] We note that large sporting events always have a sustainable and broad effect for Austria and for the region, especially for the tourist perspective. Especially June is one of the weakest months of tourism in the year, it is therefore golden as an event month for the euro. We have two objectives here from a tourism perspective, on the one hand the short-term objective of having a great many nights during the euro. We expect one million extra nights during this period. The expenses of tourists will certainly be higher because football tourists usually have 50 percent higher daily spending than normal tourists. In the medium and long term, this is our main perspective, sustainable effects of the euro. We want to use the increased attention during the euro to position Austria as a holiday country and, so to speak, to carry out an international charm attack for the holiday country Austria. The top countries of our guests are participating countries of the Euro 08, where we have corresponding expectations. I should like to stress once again: We have set priorities here with three activities. First: to bring the Austrian Business Agency investors to Austria, € 1 million. Secondly, Mr Hauser, €6 million in additional budget for Austria's advertising, which was very, very active here. It has set a total of 650 activities on over 30 markets and has made a huge image campaign for Austria. And third, the additional euro quota for seasonal kidneys. This is a very important thing for tourism companies, plus 1 040 people who are additionally approved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, finally, very briefly on this proposal, which is a five-party proposal. We know – in particular you know what you are dealing with – that tourism has particularly important aspects of climate and energy, and that these are becoming increasingly important, of course also the costs. We can really achieve steering effects with the promotions, I think. There are, however, a large number of additional funding facilities in this area, on the one hand, there are different funding agencies at the Federal level at the ministries, on the other hand, of course also between the federal government and the countries. In addition to the AWS, this is – the KLI.EN Fund has already been addressed – the CCP, the FFG and, of course, many at national level, especially the ÖHT as, I would like to say, the most recognised and well-known promoter of federal funding in tourism, which are company-related. Environmental support is also included. We think that the ÖHT can be widely used or used here to provide and act as such this information-one-stop-shop, which is addressed in the application. We will be happy to take the initiative with the ÖHT and to create appropriate networkings in order to easily pool information, to provide easier access to support for businesses at a first stage, or to implement it and to think about it in a possible second phase – this was also the subject of the Committee; there are often or sometimes particularly negative issues for businesses – such as mutual recognition of the day of filing from which funding or costs can then be claimed, so that this can be mutual recognition can be achieved. This would be a possible second phase that we would like to discuss within the framework of this information-one-stop-shop. Here too, the initiative will be taken by the ÖHT. I think it was a good, consensus-led discussion and we will achieve a good result in the sense of Austrian tourism companies. I am grateful for the good cooperation and the good climate also in the Tourism Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15253	The next speaker is Mr Hörl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15276	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Austrian tourism is a success story, we know. Mrs. State Secretary, you're perfectly right: Austria's advertising has worked very well. How else would it be possible that we have exceeded the number of 60 million, that in Tyrol almost 42 million nights can be achieved in total, and that in my district of Schwaz, and I am very proud of that, we have over 8.2 million nights? The Zillertal alone has 6.45 million nights. This makes Schwaz one of the largest tourist districts ever. However, it is necessary to promote tourism because tourism is not only in tourism-intensive regions and because they are very small from the corporate structure. 84 percent of tourism companies have less than 10 employees. That is why it is also important that we grant funding. The countries and the federal government have set up a different funding system here. The Austrian hotel loyalty hand is here a competent partner, we are well removed from it. Of course, it would be desirable to ensure, after this information-one-stop-shop, that as far as possible all promotions at the ÖHT are united. If Mr Hauser claims that we are opposed to the increase in the budget, that is not the right thing to do. Of course we are in favour, but according to the budget. I would like to say to you, Mr Hauser: The People's Party, including the Tyrolean People's Party, has always been concerned that East Tyrol is not only good, but also expensive. We have made sure that there are as many funding as no other district in our federal state, not even in our Republic, as I mean. One should not create envy here by saying that control companies get so much and others so much. I believe that East Tyrol is sufficiently supported, and I hope that on Sunday the East Tyrol population will know that it is best lifted at the Austrian People's Party, and that thanks to a proper election result. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As far as the national parks are concerned, I still have a request to ensure that tourists in this task force are also sitting and not only greens, protectors and keepers, because we also need dynamic economic operators who work there so that we can further develop the national parks into a tourist product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15332	The next speaker is Mrs Pfeiffer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15353	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With this resolution for a "one-stop shop" for promoters in the field of climate-related tourism, we want to achieve two things at the same time: promoting the tourism industry, especially small and medium-sized enterprises in this area, and improving climate protection. It is a general problem for the economy that companies are faced with an impenetrable support thickness. Due to this lack of transparency, much is lost, both at work and in potential promotions. In the tourism sector, this is no different, and especially in smaller businesses or family businesses, the effort to apply for funding is often a taxing task. There are around 60 000 tourist small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria, so we are not talking about a marginal problem. The preferences of the guests, my Ladies and gentlemen, who are on vacation in Austria, are constantly changing so that the requirements for service providers are also met. The trend towards a wellness holiday, for example, is unbroken. My state of Burgenland has a pioneering role here. The thermal spas in the south and the middle part of our federal state are now also being built in the north, in the lake corner, a thermal bath to be opened in 2009. This was necessary to have an alternative for the bad weather period. Or in the area of ski tourism: After a day on the slopes, skiers want to relax in the indoor pool or sauna. This, of course, requires an expensive infrastructure, which, in turn, is very energy-intensive in operation. What tourism companies need, this is an in-depth consultation on possible measures to reduce energy consumption and, at the same time, advice on what incentives are available for the necessary investments. Austria, ladies and gentlemen, now has the opportunity to acquire the reputation of an environmentally and climate responsible holiday country as a popular holiday country. The proposal to be dealt with here makes it easier for us to move in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15398	The next speaker was Mr Eder. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15420	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! I would like to refer more and more specifically to the item on the agenda. We have already heard of the term “one-stop shop”. This means that in economics and administration, all bureaucratic steps can be taken in a single place, with the shortest possible communication processes and, above all, the decisive one, the result-oriented. Tired work steps are to be transferred away from the applicant and beneficiaries to the administrative equipment and, hopefully, should act well, quickly and professionally. Especially in the funding sector, which is located at different levels and in different institutions, the system can prove itself, especially in the area of our small businesses and also in tourism, for example in energy-related investments. Consciousness and the need for such investments are surely increasing in view of the high and rising energy costs. That was also the theme of this morning. The energy demand in tourism is naturally higher than in the average industry, and there is a great potential for saving. In many cases, targeted investments make it possible to reduce energy costs of up to 5 to 7 percent by up to 50 percent. In addition to the savings, our tourism companies also have the optimal use of existing resources with the lowest possible impact on the environment – also in the sense of more sustainability in tourism. It is a contact point which provides information on promotions and accompanying advisory services. These are mainly known at the ÖHT. The extent to which these benefits are to go and the costs involved will have to be discussed. In principle, it is a question of customer orientation, and it cannot go far enough because of the high taxes our tourism companies pay – although they are obviously very different throughout the country. Overall, I think that is certainly a sensible all-party resolution request. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15459	The next speaker was Mr Faul, speaking at a speaking time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15480	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! I congratulate you on the new wording “Charm offensive”. But that means to me, you have to represent the Minister more often on this issue, and I also believe that this charm offensive must be brought into the world despite all praises. I think there has to be a rethinking here, because with all the great numbers – you have confirmed it, colleague Obernosterer – you have to say that domestic tourism has fallen in autumn and winter. And I also believe that we have always forgotten an essential segment in funding policy, namely the segment of the small people and the young people – saying: the school schiz courses have fallen by 16 percent. There are no promotions specifically aimed at young people, no initiatives that make it easier for parents to take the children to a school skiing course: through rental equipment, rental skis, rental equipment, rental shoes and, and – there are hundreds of approaches. Finally, it is also about a will caused by the teachers. – As regards foreign leave, language leave, we only received the results of this efficiency check yesterday, which shows: In reality, the language leave, as it is carried out with us, is of no use! – That is why an initiative should be set to get used to the young Austrian holiday. In the end, you also have to introduce the adventure holiday a little more, the summer freshness as a real physical source, and in the end you should also take advantage of it, Mrs. State Secretary, that it is getting warmer and warmer – I remember in this context an initiative that we, the smaller tourists, have once created and which unfortunately, under the pressure of the greatest, has disappeared somewhere, namely the “Keep Cool” initiative – or: Summer freshness that we have just translated into modernity. Maybe you can sit there again! I think that would be a big step towards fertilizing our tourism and connecting young people to Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15514	The next speaker was Mrs Mikesch with a speaking time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15537	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! As we have already heard, tourism is one of the most important sectors in Austria. 170 000 people have found employment in this area in 2007, and it has really become an employment engine. With about 15 000 apprentices in 2007, tourism as an instructor and employer is not to be thought away for our youth. However, the role of women in tourist training is particularly encouraging: 54 percent of all apprentices are female, and in the tourism and leisure sector, with the colleagues who go in this direction, the proportion of women is 76 percent. The colleges have a female share of 71 percent, and the higher education schools have a share of 69 percent of female pupils. In tourism, it is quite easy to see that women strive for significantly higher forms of training than men. The current application for the creation of an information-one-stop shop for tourism promoters, which in particular includes climate-related promotions, will facilitate tourism operators to use all means of promotion. Especially in winter tourism, where we are delighted with a record winter with double-digit growth rates, the investment in energy-saving technology and the transition to renewable energy sources in the sense of sustainability is just the right way to a future that continues to be so successful – a successful future of winter tourism and a successful future of our entire tourism industry.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15570	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15592	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to go where my previous speakers stopped: Nearly 20 percent of the tourism and leisure industry contributes to gross domestic product, which is almost one-fifth of the total gross domestic product. Incredible € 43.6 billion in value creation generates this industry, and almost every fifth employee in Austria has something to do with the tourism and leisure industry directly or indirectly. The successful numbers in winter tourism have already been addressed. This record result last winter was really sensational. It is therefore important and necessary to promote joint development in this area in particular, and policy in particular has the task of exercising responsibility and creating necessary framework conditions. I am also glad that there is a five-party resolution request that will be adopted unanimously today, I hope, because we know, of course, that the situation regarding the equity ratio in this sector is very difficult, and because we know that energy expenditure is a large part of the overall result. Therefore, there is a need for action here. It is simply about coordinating the various contact points in order to make it possible to simplify this funding procedure. I assume that this proposal will be adopted here today across all political groups, and I am very pleased about it. We will also be happy to present this proposal. Mr President, I should like to express my support for this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15628	The next speaker is Mr Hoefinger. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15649	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen visitors to the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think, in view of the great achievements that the tourism industry has accomplished and has done in recent years and that the many dedicated employees in this area provide, it is really only right that we try to support and help where it goes. If there is really a point of contact here in accordance with the one-stop shop principle, this is certainly a practical solution for many matters, especially when it comes to climate-related implementation and promotions that the tourism industry has to carry out. We must not forget: Especially when it comes to climate and energy, the tourism industry is facing a huge challenge for competition. These are enormous demands, which will continue to be placed on them in the future. The more favourable, the better, of course, the more the application and the implementation proceed. It's supposed to go faster and better. I now also have a request concerning the actual implementation: There should be a contact person, a well-structured office, perhaps also with well-founded outside staff, who can then advise on the spot. In further development of this, it might also be desirable in terms of eGovernment if we had Internet solutions, where the entrepreneurs actually have round-the-clock access – the Internet does not sleep – because we know that especially in the tourism industry, there are often job peaks that fall back into the hours of office, which always appear again and again when the usual business times are not observed. Therefore, as has been said, there is a need for a practical solution here – at least in terms of information, but partly in terms of implementation – also via the Internet. In this sense, I believe that we can really help, and we will all be very happy to support it together.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15683	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15704	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is not often enough to highlight positively the fact that the establishment of the leisure and tourism committee has simply given political relevance to an important economic factor. Today's five-party proposal shows that we not only need general support for the leisure and tourism industry, but also climate-related support for businesses. A share of 5 to 7 percent of the annual accounts – it has already been mentioned – of hotel companies is attributable to the energy expenditure. By targeted advice, this energy effort can or could be reduced to half. Es But this is not just about money, it is about helping companies to switch to climate and thus energy-related investments in order to protect our environmental resources. The fact that such investments are already implemented shows leisure and tourism companies already today. I am thinking of two major hotels in my region, which have been dedicated to alternative energy in recent years. On the one hand, electricity costs could be significantly reduced by a solar plant, and in a second operation with 230 beds is heated with biomass, which is therefore independent of the oil price. I see this as an important contribution that the locals and the guests appreciate and now almost presuppose. I believe that a rethinking of leisure and tourism businesses is an important step in the right direction. And this was done from a political point of view with the application of the 8th. It also took account of the situation in May. It remains to be hoped that implementation will take place as soon as possible. The funding must not only be more transparent, but also the information for the promoters, but also for small and medium-sized enterprises must be forced and bundled, because finally these enterprises are the major structures of our leisure and tourism industry.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15746	The next speaker is Mrs Hellerer. Speaking time: also 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15768	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Austrian tourism and the economic importance of tourism have already been thoroughly dealt with in the debates. Today, we are dealing with a request which deals specifically with investments, namely those made in the field of energy. It is currently the case that, if you want to make investments that are environmentally friendly, you have to deal with different funding agencies, you have to make various applications. An example from Lower Austria shows that if you decide to set up a heating that is to be environmentally friendly, you can apply to the local credit funding department, to the department RU3 of the country and to the ÖHT. In Lower Austria there is a central point of contact for tourism promotion in the Lower Austrian state government, which is the Department of Economics, Tourism and Technology. There will be information on all funding, of course also on environmental and energy investment promotions. But it is above all the health tourism industry in tourism, which has generous wellness areas and, of course, also a high energy consumption. Here, investment is made in new plants that offer energy-saving and environmentally friendly solutions. In particular, there is great interest in solar systems, biomass heating and energy renovations of the building's shells. Projects contributing to the Kyoto objective will be assessed higher than others, and priority will be given in Lower Austria in particular to the field of environmental technology. The general objective of economic and tourism promotion is, of course, to force climate-related investments and above all to ensure that a very high level of investment is carried out. low level of access to financial assistance. The motion for a resolution is therefore also aimed at: It will be examined, Secretary of State, whether there can be an opportunity for such an information-one-stop-shop in the future, so that climate-related investments can improve the infrastructure of our businesses, promote the competitiveness of tourism companies, protect the environment, safeguard jobs or perhaps create new ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15804	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching, also with a time limit of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15825	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank my dear colleague, the SPÖ tourist speaker Melitta Trunk for her work and efforts. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Hörl.]] You see the applause of many here that it is very likely that it is a fruitful activity to work so hard in advance that all political groups are satisfied and that opposition applications are treated as valued and finally received in the decision-making process as requests by the government. That's why I think it really needs a special thank you here. Thank you, Melitta! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The intention of today's proposal to examine, in a system of the one-stop shop principle, the applications for climate-related support and then to address them, I think is a very important step forward, an important step, and this first step in the right direction in the promotion of tourism should make school. It is essential for the future, however, to evaluate the entire funding sector in the tourism sector. I am very grateful to you, Mrs State Secretary, that you have also announced today in your opinion that this has, so to speak, been put on track and is to come to an evaluation. We know very well that especially small and micro-enterprises, especially family companies, need a special attention here, that it is particularly difficult for them to have access to the large promotion cake. I'd say they're just about to get a few crumbs from the big promotion cake. And that should be different. Therefore, I am pleased that this evaluation will be implemented and will be discussed soon, and I assume that in the good style that has been used so far, it will also come in the context of this evaluation to formulate common points and proposals and will then also be included in future decisions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15871	The next speaker is Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15892	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! As a thank you have already been given, I should like, of course, to join this House, Mrs Trunk. However, I would also like to express my express thanks to all the other tourism speakers – Mrs Moser, honourable Member, Mr Hauser, Bucher and, of course, our colleague Franz Hörl – who, of course, worked to a great extent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] In the last hour, there was almost a song of praise for tourism, which I am particularly pleased as a steward. Whether what is promised in this song of praise will also be observed, all the promises and rallys that have been made today will show up when it comes to making preparations for slamming. I would like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen who have helped Schladming to conduct the 2013 Ski World Championships, especially the mayor of Schladming, Mr Jürgen Winter, who has been working for many years, with Mr. Delegate except for Secretary of State Lopatka and with all the other honourable personalities, for it is possible to see again that something is going on together. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] If we look at the figures for sladming that we expect, 80 to 100 million € will be forecast in value added. Of every million that will be invested, 50 percent will remain in the region, of course, not only the region of Schladming brings a lot, but also for the future of the Austrian tourism industry. The image will be improved. I only hope that we will take appropriate measures in the labour market. I would also like to see a joint agreement as it happened today in this case. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15949	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 565 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 75.) [[14:01:46]] 4. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government Template (542 d.a._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the General Basic Book Act 1955, the Basic Book Transfer Act, the Property Sharing Act, the Accounting Act, the General Civil Code, the Court Fees Act and the Survey Act (Grundbuchs-Novelle 2008 – GB-Nov 2008) (582 d.B.) 5. Point Report and request of the Legal Affairs Committee on the draft federal law amending the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the European Union (583 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16008	We now come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. It is the first honourable Member to report on the matter. Cups with 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16037	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This novelle of the ground-books ensures that, on a state-of-the-art technological basis, the best possible cooperation of the ground-book, digital and documents archives, catasters, address registers and the process automation of the judicial and survey offices is carried out. This can be expected to improve the right to basebook and survey. As a central measure, the Survey Act is mentioned because it implements legislative measures necessary for the implementation of the technologically renewed land database and the associated procedures. In future, a very important innovation is that only an automation-supported introduction of plans to the survey authorities and the withdrawal of the previously mandatory additional submission to the basebook are foreseen. Several procedural acceleration measures will ensure that the deadline for the implementation of a plan in the basic book can be significantly reduced. The business register is established as a new component, namely an electronically managed central register of authorities, where all documents relevant to the disaster are also stored within the meaning of a long-term archive. Municipalities and other authorities or surveyors will recognise changes in land early on, and, after the basic book decision has been adopted, the change will also be presented as a valid catastrophe and open to the public. The adoption of this government template also gives rise to very positive relief effects for citizens and entrepreneurs through certain administrative simplifications. The standard cost model is EUR 170 000. This technical and very important matter for the Austrian economic location and for the citizens, who have also led to cross-sector cooperation, we will be very pleased to give our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16080	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16102	Madam President. Ms. Minister of Justice! My predecessor has already characterized the law very nicely. In particular, my recognition applies to the ability of the Federal Ministry of Justice, after all, to bring to a denominator three locations, which were responsible – then the Federal Office for Eich and Surveying and the Federal Accounting Centre – in order to create these new legislative innovations. It is, after all, so I believe, seven laws that have now been summarized and adapted under this coat law. This is a remarkable performance, even the result is remarkable. It is not only a fundamental technological renewal of the basic book, but also a corresponding improvement, but also, in particular, the modernisation of the aspect of administrative simplification. to be removed in particular. In any case, I would like to do so, because if – and that has already been mentioned – only by removing existing information obligations in the future some € 170 000 per anno can be saved, this is already a significant discharge. It also fills me with some courage, but still to believe that in the administrative simplification we have undertaken, we can actually achieve the goal of saving 25 percent, if a minister really writes about this task and his officials are ready to crush the sleeves. This has happened here – thus a truly encouraging example, What pleases me – and I assume that this will also highlight speakers – is that this law has found a broad consensus. There have already been representatives of the various professional groups, particularly concerned, lawyers, notaries, and they have given their consent there. The whole thing was also a discussion with the credit industry because of the pledge order, but there was also a very good solution. So, all around, recognition and praise for the Ministry of Justice and the officials involved. If you – and I may say this in conclusion – would also give us the opportunity to express praise and recognition for other materials of this kind in the future, such as the group complaint, I would be very pleased. [[Rejoicing with Federal Minister Dr. Berger.]] We will, of course, agree with these materials today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16153	Next, Mrs Hradecsni comes up with 3 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16174	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Yes, we also welcome the current novelle, because the change to an electronic property database – which has already been addressed by my previous speakers – is clearly in line with today's requirements. However, I would like to make one very important point in this context, namely that the data on the size of the land are taken from the basic tax register and are merely reproduced in the base book extracts. And precisely these areas in the land tax disaster enjoy a very high confidence in the population and are then used as the basis for the purchase price determination. However, it is hardly known that exactly these data in the land tax disaster can differ up to 20 percent from nature. In the end, however, this means that the buyer or the buyer of the property often only learns in retrospect of the actual size of her property and is justifiably annoyed when they may have paid for square meters, but in fact they do not have in nature at all. This is based on the fact that the basic tax disaster is based on the 19th century. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website There was the area, the country measured with the aim of obtaining tax justice. At that time it was primarily about the agricultural land, the settlement areas were completely adjacent. That's what happened back then. With the appropriate, yes, modest means, they are so inaccurate. Now I have to hurry, I've seen the red lamb shine. In this context, I am pleased to be able to make the following request in the sense of transparency and clarification: [[Quoted print version removed]] Unfortunately, Mr Fichtenbauer did not want to support this request by fear of legal uncertainty. – I mean, the opposite is the case!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16238	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16299	Next, Mr Fichtenbauer spoke with 4 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16320	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! In fact, as Mr Ikrath said, this is a very commendable occasion, a show of quality, which has been delivered by the Federal Ministry of Justice, which can only be fully acclaimed. From the same and similar occasions, I had several times the opportunity to point out that Austria has a pioneer quality at all compared to abroad, in particular abroad, Austria, with regard to the ED-based recording of the book, the company book, the electronic reminder procedure and, at all, the IT legal system. There, great and greatest nations have far less to show in relation to us. This is based on a highly qualified know-how developed within the framework of the Ministry of Justice and in the Community with judicial jurisdiction. The creation of the new database which leads to the connection of land data is very important. Of course, it is a great step forward and important that one is able to refer to the catastrophes in the survey office in particular in the case of partitioning. On this occasion – unfortunately I did not think of it in the debate in the judicial committee –: If you are already in the course of meaningful harmonizations and simplifications, an ancient problem is that, when you present the documents, for example in the proof of citizenship, you could, for a long time, proceed with a certified copy of the passport, which can only be obtained if you are Austrian citizens, as well as finding out. Rules which are less anchored in practice have been clarified in such a way as to establish notarial or court-appointed upon the establishment of the ground-bookable document. There people have to prove themselves, usually bring the passport. It would be very easy if the notary produced a certified copy of the passport in this process, which could then be attached to the ground-book application. This has been proposed x-fold for years, but it never came to a conclusion. On this occasion, perhaps you should take this into consideration. Why I see problems in this previous proposal and do not want to go along with it: It is indeed true that the basic book extract is an essential point in connection with the real estate business. If one goes on to say that this is not binding, this will lead to a very great distrust in the population. And the problems that have been identified are not so intense. For example, I've never heard anyone give this money back after the price measured in square meters. There were, of course, processes when someone was assigned less square meters after surveying – of course, this almost always comes only in the case of unbuilt land and never in the case of built land – that a process has come in the opposite direction. In my opinion, it would be sufficient to refer to the provision of § 8 of the State Survey Act, where according to § 8 para. 1 the liability of the measured area size is laid down by law. According to the revised provision of § 13 the correctibility and the lack of acquisition in good faith is, in any event, sufficiently well regulated according to § 49. I am not in favour of introducing such an uncertainty factor into the public document. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16372	Next, Mr Magistrate. That's what you're talking about. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16393	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Watchers on the Gallery and on the Internet! The 2008 Basic Book Novelle – and I can join the previous speakers – is one, I would like to say, mastery of the Ministry of Justice; therefore, a preliminary thanks to the Minister of Justice in representation for her staff and also to the staff present. However, I would also like to say that the development of today's novels has taken its outcome in 2005 by a Council of Ministers decision, which initiated the renewal of the land database. The unanimous decision-making process has led to a comprehensive analysis of existing systems and processes with the aim of optimising these processes. I can say – and I do that for the BZÖ –: Today's decision-making will create a technological renewal of the land database, which has existed in this form for more than 20 years. The technical development of the last 20 years has now been taken into account. This, in a logical consequence of course, will lead to an increase in practical capacity in this area of basic book and survey law, both for the economy and for the administration. Questionnaires are extended by the notaries and lawyers, and in future the plans will be submitted without exception in support of automation. It is also important to highlight – here the special thanks of the civil engineers who keep their document archive up to date in a special way – that the document archive of civil technicians is now directly integrated and thus the processes are simplified. For the territorial authorities, the 2008 Novelle Basic Book means that savings and simplification of the booking of public installations will be achieved, both in the areas of roads, roads, railways and waters, in particular with regard to the management of public water resources while safeguarding legal protection. In order to refer to the Law Law of Law, it should be noted that the need for a change is already justified in 2007, because since 1. On July 1, 2007, a general obligation was given by lawyers to bring all inputs into electronic communications as far as possible and authorised. Of course, this introduction in electronic commerce has also led to a considerable increase in the cost of this sector, which also makes it necessary to set higher amounts, particularly in relation to the opening of proceedings. For this reason, the BZÖ will give its assent to both proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16441	Next, Mr Köfer, speaking at 3 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16463	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! At the 2008 Basic Book Novelle – which we have heard several times today – there are, roughly formulated, only winners. This will make it much easier for municipalities, countries and local authorities to have roads, roads, avalanches or other facilities included in the basic book. At the same time, however, it will ensure that the citizens concerned do not stay on the track. This could be argued in simple proceedings before the Court of First Instance, since they did not agree to the transfer of ownership or were legally expropriated. This Novelle basebook should therefore also include disputes that have so far been brought to the public prosecutor's office, as well as actions brought by countries and communities regarding the fact that, in the simplified procedure, the limit values are too low in order to allow the plants to be entered in the basic book cost-effectively and efficiently, they are now part of the past. This innovation also creates the legal basis for the changeover to a new database. The old computer from the 1980s was limited to the collection of catastrophe data and the basic book entries. New functions, such as electronic traffic in the basic book and electronic documents collection, which can be accessed via the Internet, now require a new database. With this in mind, the Austrian judicial system, together with the survey offices, once again underlines the international pioneering role in the avenues. the development of electronic media in the field of public administration and justice. - So far, so good. An interesting discussion with the basebook leader of my constituency in my hometown of Spittal/Drau brought me a little closer to this practice. He, the practitioner of the office, sees the most important advantage of this new computer version in that every citizen and citizen can now read something out of the purchase contract from home at midnight. So far, one has only been able to do this during the hours of office and has often had to take very long journeys. From the point of view of office and from the point of view of the notaries, however, the new system also means a little more work. Moreover, according to his experience, many notaries and lawyers are currently not yet equipped for this system. There is a drop in advertising at the Novelle, which should not be kept silent, and here I speak as a representative of the upper Carinthian communities, namely: that the municipalities must continue to pay fees throughout Austria for the inspection of the basic book and survey data.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16505	The next item is Mrs Franz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16526	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! As my previous speakers have pointed out several times, the basic book novelle is to be welcomed, as the proposed changes contribute to administrative simplification and to procedural acceleration. On the one hand, the legal basis for the changeover to the new land database will be established, but on the other hand, there will also be sustainable improvements in the booking and surveying system. So plans in the future will only be implemented in full. This means that all changes will be made at once after completion of the construction work. Furthermore, the burden-free depreciation of low-value partitions in the Property Sharing Act is significantly facilitated. A particular concern of the countries and municipalities was that value limits should be raised or completely eliminated, because in the case of public investment, a booking was very often made difficult by the constant increase in land prices. Now, in the case of simplified accounting procedures, compliance with certain value limits will be avoided in the future and a right of opposition will be granted to owners and creditors. This has therefore been taken into account and allows for faster booking of public investment plans. This gives rise to great benefits both for the property owners concerned and for the public investment beneficiaries. All in all, these changes in the survey and basic accounting system are very welcome, because it is precisely local authorities that are significantly relieved by simplification of the process in the accounting of road, road, railway and water construction facilities. Whoever has ever had to do with it in a community can sing a song of how much time and effort it took to book roadways. Thank you very much to all those who participated in this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16569	The next item is the speech by Mr Glaser. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16590	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In my opinion, a few legislative bodies have recently received as unanimous an agreement as this Novelle of the Basic Books. In the run-up to this, as far as I am aware, there were quite a few discussions on the extension of competences, on the limitation of term limits and the like. But all of this could be cleared out. As has been said several times, this novel brings about the necessary technological adaptation and even better interaction of the base book, document archive and survey offices. Above all, it also brings improved consultation opportunities and accelerated handling of procedures. Personally, it is important to me that the two-year period, which remains from the preparation of a division plan to the introduction of a basic book, is preserved, because this also preserves the possibility of disposition for the applicant. It is also important and very positive, I believe, that it will be possible in the future, if a request has been formally forgotten something to improve within a week. The application does not have to be simply rejected, but it can now be repaired in the course of the improvement of the law. At any rate – and I believe that we can see this unanimously – this innovation ensures that truly European-wide work and cooperation between the basic books and the survey offices, which, as has been said, take a leading position within Europe, continue to be preserved. – Thank you so much to all those who have worked on it. I hope that we have done a really good job here for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16627	The next item is the speech by Mr Praßl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16649	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the amendment of the Basic Book Act and a number of other legislative changes, we are taking a very big step in the right direction of modernisation. In addition, legal measures to improve the right to base book and survey will be launched. In order to take account of technical developments and to meet the ever-growing demands of the economy, but also of public administration, Justitia has, in the best possible way possible, launched a law. The Minister of Justice and the officials responsible are very grateful for this. Ladies and gentlemen! The previous speaker from FPÖ, Dr. Fichtenbauer, has also confirmed that we have a very good numbering material available in the basic book, which can be seen in Europe. I also have in my home district In the event of a very, very large hall cleaning, the basic book can rely on these documents, which is a great help in such cleaning procedures. What changes are still being made? – The electronic definition, for example, or the resolution of the railway book, electronic booking, amendment of the Property Sharing Act and more. Perhaps one of them is the resolution of the railway book. The electronic definition of this railway book is used to ensure that the registered land is transferred to, and for itself, the base book of, the respective catastrophe municipality, but the railway can nevertheless assert the right to its railway deposits. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: It is good to decide this law because it ultimately serves the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16694	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Berger spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16715	Madam President. Thanks to all the speakers who have dealt with our law in great detail, it is technically a somewhat complicated matter. But especially those who have suggested that they themselves come from local politics know how important a modern book process and a modern property database are indeed. So thank you so much for the recognition. Mr Ikrath said he could or would like to agree to a federal law on the introduction of a group complaint. – The draft of the Ministry of Justice is complete. If If you would like to agree, we can also consult this House very quickly at any time. I would also like to expressly support the initiative proposal. We will also be happy to implement this own-initiative proposal with regard to the information that is useful to the persons who have a basic book extract. I ask for an understanding of the limitation that I could not take over this for the Kataster – because of lack of competence in this area. It is also true that the Austrian property database and the high degree of electronization that we now have in both the base book and the company book have become an international show project and we are getting very, very many requests from other countries to help them build similar systems. I would like to ask whether the holders of citizenship certificates and Austrian passports are actually identical. I have been told that there are some differences here, but we will certainly accept this proposal. The freedom of charge for the municipalities was also mentioned. I think we are creating – and this has been honoured here – a lot of relief for the communities through this law. Unfortunately, to the extent that I can grant the municipalities free of charge, it cannot be done because the revenue from the basic book is very important for the functioning of justice. For our independence it is very, very important that we have a high share of own resources. In particular, the basic book plays a major role here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16761	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We first come to the vote on the draft federal law which amends the General Basic Book Law 1955, the Basic Book Transfer Act, the Property Sharing Act and other laws, including title and receipt in 582 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft law at third reading too, for a sign on this point. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hradecsni, Mr Jarolim, Mr Donnerbauer, Mr Darmann, Mr Darmann, on the non-binding nature of the land in the case of electronic basebook extracts. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request was accepted by the majority. (E 76.) Furthermore, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Law of Law, including title and receipt in 583 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:33:49]] 6. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (555 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act, which amends the Federal Law on the Establishment of a Justice Service Agency ( JBA-G) and the Federal Law on Health and Hospital Care (GuKG) and the Federal Law on the Regulation of Up-to-Date Medical and Technical Services (MTD Act) (584 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16855	We're coming to the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser with 4 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16882	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! We know we have a lack of social workers, psychologists and nurses in prison. This is the extent to which the analysis of the Federal Minister and his colleagues is still taking place. But then our ways are shared, because the logical consequence of this miscarriage would be to create the necessary plan posts. But that doesn't happen. Instead, this judicial service agency is now being set up, and the staff will be hired there in the future. I think that is an expression of dishonest policy. If we need staff, this will be negotiated with the Federal Chancellery and the Ministry of Finance and the necessary planning points will be created. Why don't you do that? – Because one wants to keep the number of public servants artificially low, because one can hide staff employed by an agency in the cost of property. This is a classic label malaise for which we are not at our disposal, for which we are not at our disposal, because we consider it dangerous. In reality, this judicial service agency is laying the rails for a later partial privatisation of the execution of the sentence. I assume that no one wants to privatize the execution of the sentence today, but anyone who is now starting to decommission will be able to create the conditions for the possible privatisation later on. There will probably never again be a plan post in the field of skilled staff, which will be created in addition. Each additional body will be created in this judicial service agency. In the Committee, all of us have faithfully assured me that we are not in favour of privatising the execution of the sentence. There was great consensus. If that is really the case, then you have to look at reality. What will happen to the judicial service agency? First of all, and this is what Mrs Bundesminister says, the staff is employed there for individual projects. At some point, it will be necessary to allow new recruitments in the field of specialised staff only more in the judicial service agency, and at some point, when a large number of employees work in the judicial service agency, all, including contract staff, will be “parked” in the judicial service agency. And if that's the case, you'll say: Since the entire professional staff is already in the agency and nothing is being done in the first place, we can discuss whether these services cannot be provided by a private person. – Then we are in the middle of the criminal enforcement Privatisation debate, which we all do not want. That is why, Mrs Federal Minister – even if that is not your intention –: They're laying the rails here for a later partial privatisation that nobody wants. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Regardless of whether it comes to it or not, the consequences of this exclusion will already be extremely unpleasant, for: Who will select the staff in the future? – The Justice Agency. Who is responsible for training? – The Justice Agency. In fact, I would like to see the public hand responsible for the quality of the staff in such a sensitive area as the execution of the penalty. What's going to happen? We will have two categories of staff in the judicial institutions. One – that will be the judicial guards – are publicly served, the other – that will be the external ones – will be the specialist staff. This will lead to a hierarchy that we all do not want. The question of parliamentary control is also very different in the case of such exclusions. Can we even control such a judicial service agency in a parliamentary way? - I'm afraid not. Parliamentary questions will then be scrambled and the reference will be made: This does not fall within the scope of the Federal Minister. The main argument, which is repeatedly brought: This is only a small area, namely the implementation of measures!, is not correct. It is true that, at the moment of the implementation of the measures, it is financially unprofitable, but that can be changed. This could be changed by the use of contract staff. That would be just as cheap – you say yourself – probably even cheaper, because the overhead costs are lost, but you don't do it because there are no plans necessary for that. That is why I am back on the label issue, and that is why we are voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16940	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm with 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16961	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Steinhauser! Why is this law enforcement agency now? . You know that the large increase in accommodation over the past few years has been very stressful in the implementation of Austrian measures. Because the burdening capacity of the special institutions of the implementation of measures, namely in Göllersdorf and Vienna-Mittersteig, is no longer sufficient, one has just had to resort to psychiatric hospitals, to psychiatric departments in general public hospitals. This meant a threefold increase in the financial burden for the provision of forensic patients in public hospitals: While €10 million was needed for these expenditures in 2000, the cost of this expenditure increased to €30 million in 2007. The average daily rate in public hospitals is around €400 for permanent residents, while in the Göllersdorf judicial centre, for example, the cost of care is about half. So there's a huge difference! If this trend has led to a great imbalance on the part of expenditure – and you also know that eight percent of the budget had to be spent on around 12 to 14 percent of prisoners in prison homes – then it is also an inequality between the prisoners. Why do you want to fill out now? – Because, as already stated, it is much cheaper to carry out the action. The cost reduction is one of the reasons why this is done. It has already been said that the increase in the number of prisoners or the increase in the number of prisoners has led to disincentives. We know in this context that about 200 contracts with doctors had to be concluded. And that's a certain wild growth. Therefore, this justifiable support agency is not only necessary, but also an important step. Now the range of services that this agency should cover. It is responsible for medical care, psychotherapy, social care, psychological care, occupational therapeutic care and also for the advice of the judicial department on care management and the prophylaxis of relapse, which is also a necessary measure. Now to criticism, this will lead to privatisation. – It is very likely that the judicial staff or security staff are still publicly and stately organised. And this is something very necessary and important in a rule of law: that, although the care staff are privately organized, this is very likely to happen in a legal form, which can then be examined by the Court of Auditors, which is necessary and important. – That too must be said. Now we are also talking about the expected cost-saving potential! – In 2009, € 2 million will be spent less for equal care. And for the year 2010, it is estimated that around €8 million of savings per year will be available. We urgently need this money to reintroduce into the various judicial institutions all that is necessary to make the execution as we wish, namely that a certain resocialization is possible. This is something important and necessary. I can assure you, Mr Steinhauser: It is not a question of privatising the execution of the penalty, it is an efficient measure which is concerned with saving costs on the one hand, but, on the other hand, pursuing the objective accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17016	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17038	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has already explained very clearly and very comprehensively what the background to the introduction of the Justice Service Agency is and which will ultimately also be the very concrete benefit for the budget as a whole and also for the care of prisoners by the same. I can join this fully in content. I would just like to make some clarifications and also to provide additional information. First: Mr Steinhauser, the introduction of the judicial service agency is not a privatisation, as you said or argued in the judicial committee. Nor is it a first step towards privatisation, but it is clearly an outlay, but one that is also a hundred percent of the responsibility of the Federal Government and Parliament. In the run-up to the assessment draft, there were quite legitimate criticisms – and from my point of view too. Therefore, I am glad that these criticisms have been taken into account in the course of the legislative process and that the decision in the judicial committee has also made some adjustments, so that I can no longer share the concerns you are still articulated here. What were the concerns that we have taken into account in the decision we have on the agenda today? On the one hand, this is the fact that there can be an extension to all areas of the executive in the judicial system, including the judicial guard. It was originally kept open. That was also one of my criticisms. This is no longer possible. It is, as already stated, limited to care: to medical care, to social therapeutic care and to therapies. - That's the one point. The next point was the question of control: parliamentary control, control of the Court of Auditors, control of the public prosecutor's office. This is also fully clarified by this draft law, as it is today on the table of the House for decision-making: that this control is possible here that it is subject to the government administration. Thirdly, the responsibility of the Federal Minister for Justice for the staff of the Justice Agency. – This point has also been clearly regulated. There is now a link of instruction and also a relationship of responsibility with a supreme body, namely the Federal Minister. Overall, I can say that in a very good, constructive work we have taken into account various concerns regarding the original draft, including those presented in the review process. We now have a tailor-made solution, which will at least solve and solve the problem that has already been explained, namely the cost of care in hospitals. I therefore believe that I can only recommend to all Members of this House that this draft be approved today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17089	The next item is the speech by Mr Fichtenbauer. 4 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17110	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! This law is reasonable, and it will therefore also find our approval. [[Bravoruf des Abg. Pendl.]] – “Bravo” can always be said with me; that is very reasonable. It is not, of course, as Mr Steinhauser said – he is now being quoted more in the course of this debate than the Holy Father at a Holy Mass – that this law – and this concerns is already a step in the right direction – is being taken a first step towards privatising the execution of punishment. That is, please, not visible from God, with all skepticism. In this context, it is rightly referred to the Federal Accounting Agency, with which the Ministry of Finance has not been privatised. We do not know whether this would be more reasonable in view of some of the projects that we have to face in this House. But his criticism is a little overstated. There will probably never be the condition that with the execution of the sentence per se and with all the contents of the sentence, there will be only joy and everything will be in vain delight there, but that will always be a problem point. And you will always be able to try asymptotically to do the cheapest according to the current possibilities. But that, in order to achieve the same effect, the cost reduction, which has been presented transparently, is only an extremely supportive measure. I do not think that there can be any responsibilities in this area of implementation in the sense of ministerial responsibility. Summa summarum can be said: It's pragmatic, it's right. And when these two things meet together, one should also give the law the consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17156	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 3 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17177	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The key points of the Justice Agency Act have already been discussed. As part of the debate on the Article 15a agreement on health care costs for prisoners, we have already discussed the problem of increasing costs in this area, especially as public hospitals also charge private tariffs. A solution had to be found in this area, and I believe that it is really a more than just a suitable approach to establish the judicial service agency through this law. Considering that, in the case of measures, a caregiver of around €200 to €300 per person per day would cost the same care in the public hospitals at an extreme rate of €500 per person per day and per person, it is clear that the path can only be taken in the direction that this significant difference between the care provided by judicial institutions, especially by the judicial service agency, and the care in public hospitals must be used as a positive means of ensuring cost-effective and yet high-quality care. This is about saving around € 2 million in the first year and starting in 2010 at € 8 million. So these are not small amounts, but really substantial savings that can be achieved through this measure. And that's what I think is particularly important: The tasks of the judicial service agency will be very comprehensive. For example, psychiatric care, psychotherapeutic care, medical, even dental care are allowed. All these areas are covered here. Against the concern of the Greens that any influence of the State on this area is taken into consideration, several paragraphs of this law can be brought into the meeting. For example, § 18. – There will continue to be a law of the Federal Minister for Justice in this area. Or § 19. – There will be a supervisory obligation of the Federal Ministry of Justice. Or § 26. . There will be control by the Court of Auditors. Furthermore, there is the right of the Ministry of Justice to nominate four Supervisory Boards, which look virtually constantly at the management of the board. There is even a reporting obligation. For example, each Supervisory Board may require that: Report to be returned. This means that there is still a real strong roots with the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, the concerns of the Greens cannot be shared by our side, which also gives our consent to this law on judicial service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17232	It has now been reported to Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Berger. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17254	First of all, let me say that we have huge personnel problems in criminal execution. I have often had the opportunity to report on it in this House. This has to do with the sharp rise in the number of inmates, particularly in the implementation of measures which have not been taken into account in recent years, neither in the personnel sector nor in the construction sector. I then tried to obtain additional planning posts in the planned negotiations for the 2007/2008 budget, in particular for the execution of the penalty. I got it,I am very grateful for it, but it was – I have to say so – just a drop on the hot stone. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. ==References====External links== Pendl]] I do not want to be embarrassed to be ashamed of this and to refer to the next planned negotiations. It is clear to me how limited the possibilities of the Federal Chancellery and the Ministry of Finance are if we also want to comply with the general requirements which we have set together. That's why fantasy was in demand, and a product of this fantasy is the judicial service agency. I should also like to mention some of the arguments that have to be made in order to ensure that this is by no means a privatisation. The staffing situation has already led, among other things, to the fact that a lot of foreign services had to be awarded in the execution of the sentence. We currently have about 270 contracts with persons providing services for the execution of the sentence, including in the field of medical care, medical care and similar areas. We will pay very close attention to the staff we want to employ through the judicial service agency – and the foundations are laid on it – to ensure that they work well in the respective institutions, and to ensure that, as far as legal matters are concerned, the difference is essentially only the formally different employer – they are fully equal in these institutions as well. We will not give these people to other institutions. We do not act as a job rental company, so the employees of us do not send to other employers. The management functions for the individual care services and, of course, the management of the institutions themselves will continue to be reserved to officials and contract staff of the federal government. The rising costs have already been pointed out. We had to respond, and at the same time we can provide better – and often the accusation in the course of privatisations is made that there is less demanding services – and that more cost-effective care is provided for patients with this solution. I'm convinced of that. Our plan is to build two new smaller institutions to improve self-sufficiency: in Asten in Upper Austria and in Vienna in the 3rd century. District. And the additional requirement – and only the additional requirement! – which we need for these institutions, we will organise through this judicial service agency. We expect that for the institution in Asten, we will accommodate about 60 people through this judicial service agency. Another argument: The Justice Agency is an institution of public law. She'll lead the federal coat of arms. That is to say, the distinctions with the other state of the state are very, very small. I would like to thank all those who have tried to contribute to a solution to the question of human resources in criminal execution and who have been so detailed in this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17315	The next item is Mrs Stadlbauer. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. This will take place until 3 p.m. until the end of the sitting. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17336	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! If we have had to observe for several years that there is a continuous increase in financial effort in the implementation of measures for external medical services, and if at the same time we see that there is a lack of facilities for psychologists, psychologists, social workers and medical staff, then there is a need for action. For a long time I was a member of the Penal Enforcement Commission in Upper Austria, which has the task of monitoring the situation in judicial institutions, and on almost every visit it was to hear that the biggest problem is that staff are missing or that there are too few capacity available to staff, especially in the psychological, social and medical field. The fact is that the Minister of Finance does not increase the number of planning posts, although there is an increased need for action. I think Mrs Berger has chosen an extremely creative way of doing this. Now the Greens criticize this law as a privatisation, but it is not – apart from the fact that the executive is not outsourced; Mrs Berger has already pointed out this – I think it is the opposite, because the services for the treatment, care, education and care of inmates of detention facilities had to be purchased so far, and in addition to increased financial needs, the people in these areas were also more precarious, but now there will be additional employees in the judicial service agency, now additional jobs are being created. For me, this is even a kind of privatization. Another buy-in would have led to another cost explosion, and on the other hand, the situation of the prisoners would have worsened dramatically. All of this overlooks the Greens in their argumentation, and above all they do not provide an alternative and no solution. In reality, this law includes a political formula that we would like to see far more often, namely: More staff plus less money means better care in judicial institutions. Through the establishment of the Justice Service Agency, there is a sustainable improvement in the care of prisoners, and that is why we can: agree with best knowledge and conscience. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17385	I am now interrupting the negotiations on the 6th. Agenda item. [[15:00:45]] Short debate on the reply to the question 3556/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17409	We shall proceed to the implementation of the brief debate on the reply to the question 3556/AB. As the above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, a reading by the writer is not necessary. The copy bearing the title ‘Full copy’ shall apply. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a 10 minute speaking time available to the first speaker for reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please, you have the floor for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17443	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to ask, in all the gentile courtesy I have here, not to understand the possibility of today's debate as an exchange of unkind attacks, but as the possibility of being able to talk to the elected people's representatives about not very uninteresting issues of the conduct of money in ministries. [[Abg. Scheibner: You camouflage!]] Mr Scheibner thinks he has to manifest himself. – The acquisition of the motivating situation, which is currently under debate, has not been publicly perceived as a routine measure, but has also been significantly commented on in the press. From your side, these measures have been commented on or justified by the fact that you say that it had to be, so to speak, because the traditional or the old symbolism of rule, which of the space – so I speak of your ministerial office – originally assumed that it would almost be forbidden to hold relevant talks. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] For example, in the postings, there is the opinion that this is the greatest waste of money that exists: Just a few years ago, one of the most important palaces – that's your ministry's seat – is to be restored and then to carry out the wrong history liquidation. I can gain this opinion, because it is now a fact that the mass of the public space used today, especially the one used by ministries, comes mainly from the period of history of Baroque and later. That's not quite all right if you version this with aberrant vocabulary. “Glory symbolism” can only be understood in the negative context you complain of if, with the “Glory symbolism”, there is also the oppressive exercise of power in the alliance, which would, of course, be unthinkable for you, but it is truly not suitable to be able to justify this radical innovation, which is eventually financed by tax funds. With the same mentality, for example, baroque facades were also defeated. An interesting hint for people who are too young to have it present: The beautiful baroque “smoker church” was torn away in 1962 because it was believed that you had to enter the earth with line 62 – an insanity from today’s point of view! But one sees that certain intentions are long-lasting characters. It goes on to write this opinion: An educational politician is not only the completely tasteless mix of furniture, but also the ahistorical approach to this traditional interior is unworthy. Innovative, progressive and reformable is something other than this postmodern housing of a Baroque palace. So people's voice, and people's representatives are sitting in this house. Now for details of your answer. – For example, it is about the ceiling sculpture of Hans Kupelwieser, which is a loan of the Artothek of the federal government. But: When was this work actually purchased and for what reasons and at what price? So with what height is the purchase price of this ceiling sculpture to be estimated? After all, it is obvious that this ceiling sculpture was purchased on the occasion of an office facility and that the loan via Artothek is merely a circumvention structure. So I would ask you to present the time sequences in this context. Then: Why is the cost statement on questions 14 to 16, which you offer on page 3, only with net prices indicated? There is probably a duty on turnover tax, and the tax on sales cannot be calculated by the federal government. Moreover, the prices indicated do not appear to be in line with market prices. For example, in 2007, the Alessandro Mendini Proust Armhair had an estimated value of €45 000 in the Quittenbaum auction house in Munich. 45 000 €! You write: 9 €421. That can't really fit. The Chaiselongue of Mies van der Rohe has an estimated value of €6 500 to €7500 in the Dorotheum and more. At that time, the “standard” was calculated to have about €150 000 if you could charge the total cost of renewing your office. Furthermore, you have allowed yourself to point out that the funds that, as we meant, would perhaps be better invested in school or in social focal points would not be counter-calculated that this would be politically inappropriate or inappropriate. “Eligible investments in the Ministry’s office infrastructure cannot be linked to necessary investments in local schools.” – That’s what your reply says. And that's what it says: ‘Especially as the cost of the reform of the Office is estimated at around 0,0001 % of the education budget.’ That's what I'm asking: Why can't you put that in relation? The budget for education, for your ministry, is a budget. This means financing educational measures, but also expenditure for the office. This can be seen under a budget item. I do not see why there is a need to debate teacher savings and high school students as a problem when, on the other hand, such expenses are being debated. Summary: I already admit that with this issue the Republic cannot be put into a frenzied excitement, but 100 000, 150 000 € is the average earnings of two non-poor families. It is to be said that it is inconvenient and politically unpleasant to hear and, at least, to have a discussion that explains the whole thing that the “religion symbolism” is so unbearable that one cannot stand on baroque chairs. In this light, I ask you to feel the relativization of this measure by the petitioners, and I think that other members of this House may intend to argue in a similar direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17492	I would like to draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of Members who are now speaking is not more than 5 minutes: The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17516	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fichtenbauer, Radical Innovation: Until now, I have always understood the word “innovation” as something positive, as a further development, but it is obvious to you that innovation is not a positive term. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: That depends on what is being innovative!]] I can only say to the debate: Obviously a lot of noise for an artificial excitement, which is not really understandable, a matter where with great effort it is tried to make a fly out of a mosquito – elephant will certainly not be anybody – and I can't really spare you the accusation of populism here. First of all, I would like to say that the infrastructure in the office of Minister Schmied should clearly have been renewed. After all, no investment in technical infrastructure, lighting or furniture has been made in the last 50 years, and I think it is obvious that a ministerial office should be up-to-date with regard to technical equipment and should also be modern, functional and, as far as the facility is concerned, user-friendly. Each of you knows when we have two days of meeting here, what it means to sit on such old armchairs that ergonomics are not exactly the best either. The questions about the cost of furniture of the office were answered in an extensive way in the answer to the question, including the costs of lighting design and other costs that have arisen. Let's get to the heart of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen! Who, if not the Minister of Art, should set up her office in cooperation with a recognized artist and thus send a signal towards modern art and design? This is an important signal for contemporary art, a symbol for the opening of the house and the fresh wind, which now blows in the field of art and cultural policy, but also in the field of education policy. Especially the area of furniture design is a significant part of the connection between art and business and the resulting value added. I do not think we should overlook what is ultimately going on in the creative sector, and that is why it is in my view quite the responsibility of the Minister to send a signal of this kind. Unfortunately, the understanding of design is still very little developed. Obviously, design is something strange, exotic and therefore draws attention to itself. If the office had been furnished and equipped with typical office furniture, which is usually also very expensive, you would certainly not have asked the FPÖ, but because the design is unusual, the attempt is made to create artificial excitement. Gentlemen of the FPÖ! I wish you more courage to shape and color. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17559	Next speaker: Mr Morak. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17580	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the discussion has something good too. We should not just talk about what is in the postings of the “standard” and the Internet, not about the new office, but about how a minister answers questions from Parliament. And, Mrs. Federal Minister, I can't spare you one accusation or another. We're suffering from something. We suffer under multiple conditions: One thing is that the Federal Chancellor lets us do something about it and we basically feel that we are not being taken seriously. I know that this is a serious accusation for Parliament, not to mention where we say the power in this country goes from Parliament. That's the part. [[Call the FPÖ:Stand in the Constitution!]] But I also have to tell you that, in the face of this self-confidence of some Member of Parliament, of course, the answer to one question or another is a matter of course, and I believe that what we have experienced lately, including you, is so unacceptable. One could now hang this on to saying: “the ancient symbolism of rule”, and could then interact with the chair of Mendini, on which the Emperor Bokass has not even set himself, because he radiates more symbols of rule than the moustache you had at the time in the office. And I also do not want to talk about the fact that the offices on which they were incredibly moved at the time, for example perhaps by Mr Cap, by Mr Strasser, by myself, and perhaps also by Mr Schusel, were also sitting at the offices where the Ministers of Education took their furniture. But, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should discuss this when an art minister, if a minister of culture, if a minister of education or a minister of education really wants to show a sign, then one might ask: Why does this have to be when it's supposed to be a sign? By the way: I made the effort to look at the Design Austria website, how many Austrian furniture designers there are. There alone are 74, and believe me, ladies and gentlemen, these are not all. And now you could say, Okay, friends, why is there no furniture in there from Porsche, from Kiska, from Schmidinger Module, from EOS, from Wittmann, from Kiesler, from Hoffmann, from Neudörfler, from Hollein, from Walter Pichler?, and so on, and so on. For example, this would be quite a question to be discussed here, because this is Austrian design, and I do not mean it in a national sense, because these designers are designing worldwide, I would like to stress, but the problem is, of course, that they do not design in your office. And I'd like to say one more thing. I have been mentioned very often after some articles, including the “standard” and the “falter” in the newspaper, were asked: Where does the normal taxpayer get all that mobbing you have in your office by €35 000? To learn this address would, I think, be incredibly important to our taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17624	Mr Zinggl spoke next. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17645	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of February, the “standard” states that the entire office costs €38 000. That's what you said, Mrs. Minister. I was called by three newspapers at the time, which I say about whether this would not be a waste of money, and I said: Guys, let's leave the church in the village! Yes, it's not necessarily cheap, and I could imagine a cheaper facility, but €38 000 – there's really worse. And then this question comes from Mr Fichtenbauer and the answer to it, and then I started to research. I found it suspicious, and I thought the carpet was missing, there were some other things missing, and in my research I finally came up with it, the office costs at least € 108 000 to € 110 000. Now one can say that this is no longer modest, that is certainly not economical, that is not economic, and whether it is appropriate, Mrs Minister, that is what you have to decide. But I am a little disappointed, because we are already starting this cover-up strategy, which we have been spared from with you so far. So far, it's actually clear: If you say that costs 100 000 €, then you can stand for it, and then it's okay, but if you're getting used to it, you're starting to cover up. Then something is wrong, and somehow you have the feeling that you have spent too much. If you look at this in detail, for example, this light sculpture, which the colleague Fichtenbauer has already mentioned, which cost 20 000 €, where you say that is a loan from Artothek: That's more or less the artotheque from your office. That's quite clear. In the moment Artothek buys it only where it already hangs in your office, it's no longer an issue of Artothek, but even then it would still be tax money, because that's also federal money. That means you can count it calmly. The carpet is missing in the list at all. The work performance is completely missing. From the light design to the reconstructions of the floor, which also has to be opened, and the wood coverings, that's all missing. Now I come to this day's lie, this really funny daybed, where you say that's a loan from the MAK. The director says he made this available to you from his fundus. We know he bought it for the museum, that's right, but a month later, you already had it in your office. And a month before he bought it, he already had it in his design inside, he said he needed it for the office. That means he obviously buys it for you and then takes it into his fundus. But now I have a very different question: If this berth belongs to the museum's fundus, can you lie on it at any time? – I was in the MAK last week and wanted to sit on a chair of Mies van der Rohe, I am immediately being pushed away – not even a second. The ordinary citizen is not allowed to sit on it anywhere, but you can now lie down for years on it? There's something wrong with that. With the same reason, Faymann could get some Bugatti from the 1930s from the Technical Museum and make his service trips with it. Or the Federal President says that for the state visit of Sarkozy we need something decent for salt and pepper, and get the Saliera. So I don't think that's possible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That means, of course, it's hidden. This has been purchased for you, no question at all. Now we come to Peter Noever, the director of the museum who has done this for you, who designed this She's developed. And without a fee. I think that young designers could really have earned a fee – and thus also a reputation. Noever doesn't require a fee, but the question is: Why is he doing that? Why does one who has not studied design, who has not even learned it, why does he develop this office for you? – Is this boring, is he happy if he can go shopping with a credit card from the Republic and buy furniture, which he would have liked to do? Or does he want to be extended? Next year, his extension is on, and what is he supposed to offer, except that he's setting up the office? And that's where I tell you: We will take a very close look at whether it will be extended, because if it is extended, the reason for this is certainly obvious. Perhaps the questions raised by my colleague Mr Fichtenbauer were a little unsightly formulated. We have now put in quite specific questions, I am excited how you will answer what the office really cost. Tell us! If it's cost more than 100 000 €, you can also talk about it, my goodness, there's really worse, but we don't want to hide. And please expect gross amounts, because § 75 of the Budget Act requires that! It is not possible to specify net amounts, but it is necessary to specify gross amounts. And only then do we know what it really cost. This is important because sometime after you become other ministers or ministers, and they also want to know what they can spend if they do not like the furniture you have picked up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17710	It has now come up with Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied's speech. I would draw attention to the fact that the word should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17731	Thank you very much, Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The headquarters of my ministry – I am now going back to history – the former Palais Starhemberg, was built in 1667 as a noble seat. It is a baroque building in one of the most beautiful places in Vienna. In 1785 the house was completely rebuilt in the style of Josephinism, in 1820 especially the entrance area and also the reception rooms, where my office is located, in the Empire style. Greater renovation work on this palace was carried out in 1932 and 1981. However, in the field of the Office of Ministers, as has already been stressed by the honourable Member, there has been no significant investment in furniture, lighting, electrical installation and cetera over the last 50 years. Accordingly, the state of the furniture was. Especially the armchairs in my office were no longer functional, the lighting of the room was not sufficient especially in the autumn and winter months. Who visited me in the evening, Probably also noticed the darkness. The ambience in no way corresponded to my ideas, a communicative, contemporary office. Productive work – I emphasize it again – was especially difficult at a later hour. Although office design is by far not the priority project, I have decided, after long considerations and several recommendations, to re-establish and re-establish the ministerial office from the technical side. There are important discussions and negotiations with Austrian and international negotiators in this area every day, and as the minister responsible for art, it was also natural for me to send a signal for contemporary art with the new institution. The following points were important to me in the redesign: Firstly, no intervention in the building substance. Secondly, no change in wall and ceiling design from the time of the Empire. Flexible seating furniture, contemporary workplace, first-class lighting, but also the combination of traditional works of art and historical architecture with modern design and contemporary art, high demands on quality, durability and aesthetics. I do not want to discuss taste issues here in the context. Peter Noever has prepared the artistic intervention after joint talks with me, for which I thank him. His work – I see and evaluate this way – is a service to the Republic of Austria and in that sense has saved funds. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today, the space – who has already visited me in the new office – will perhaps share this assessment – will be fully applied in its proportioned quality. I see the design of the office as an artistic intervention in the field of tension of tradition and innovation, which also reflects my daily work. I'm at the cost now. I have indicated the net cost, since the sales tax is also again relevant to the public authorities, but it is easy to add the sales tax to it. I have always correctly stated what cost information I meet. The net costs for the new facilities paid by the Ministry are fully transparent and disclosed. They were for furniture 39 080,59 €, for light design 8 381.52 €, for carpet 6 389,66 €. In my reply to the question, I also indicated the sources of reference. The sculpture “Twist around” by Kupelwieser is a loan from Artothek, which took place in February 2008. I can only remind you that the Artothek keeps a collection of dome meadows and this purchase fits perfectly into the Artothek collection. With regard to the historical importance of the building, the functional use and also the high standards of quality, this investment is acceptable from my point of view. I would also like to inform you, in reply to the question raised by Mr Zinggl, in detail, but I have already informed you publicly about it, that at the same time as the entire office document in the 1st reading, I am going to discuss it in detail. The floor of the Minorite Square, i.e. several offices were renovated by several staff members of the Ministry. A significant part of this was the whole resettlement and re- equipment in the field of electrical installation, and these costs amounted to 30 204,61 €. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17809	The next item is the speech by Mr Grastaur. Your speaking time is also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17831	Thank you, Madam President. Minister! Thank you for the explanation you made here. logically, I see it a little different. I am known to be the budget speaker of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and in this capacity, of course, I have been obliged to pay attention to and look at the costs and expenditure of the State. From this point of view, I must say that your answer to our request has unfortunately been to God that you did not buy XXXLutz furniture, but, quite the contrary, designer furniture. You have just explained why that was necessary from your point of view. I think it could also be an art minister sitting on quite normal styled furniture. It does not have to sit on designer furniture like on a Capplini Proust Armhair by Alessandro Mendini with design function that costs 9 400 € net. That's 120 000 S in old currency. I don't think that would have to be, Mrs. Minister. What bothers me with the whole story is that you act here with a tremendous acknowledgment and in the answer to the question that the office has spent only 0.0001 percent of the educational budget for these purchases. I am honestly embarrassed by this reply as a Member of Parliament, because that is improper. It is inappropriate to give an answer in this form. But I would like to say that is not an individual case. We have researched a little further and found that not only such expenditure has been incurred in the Schmied office, but it has also been done in the office of Minister Hahn Renovating and Purchasing: Total investment €57 000, €33 000 for furniture, €24 000 for the lighting concept. But also at the Ministry of Infrastructure, costs have been incurred for the reconstruction of the offices of Minister Faymann and Ms. State Secretary Kranzl: plenty of 80 000 € for relocation and institution. And last but not least: On the recommendation of the Ministry of the Interior, the Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer also equipped and secured his windows at the Ballhausplatz with tank glass. The costs are covered in silence. They are probably so high that one should be ashamed of it as well. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So that his own comrades do not cut the slices on him!]] If you continue to pick up this red thread, you can see that there are huge overruns in the ministers' fees. In the last year of 2007, €3.8 million was spent on fees by ministers. The top riders are the German Chancellor Gusenbauer with 962 000 € and the Minister of Agriculture Pröll with 612 000 €, and on 3rd. The Foreign Minister Plassnik ends up at €574,000 a year. [[Abg. Faul: The Gorbach used to be alone!]] [[Abg. Krainer: But in half a year!]] I don't wonder, I have to tell you, given these wastes, these bad examples and signals, that the 2007 budget has completely run out of the row again. I am not surprised that the out-of-plan revenue, which amounted to almost €4 billion, has been spent almost entirely, because with these examples it is not possible at all and not surprising. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17894	Mr Scheibner is now speaking. Five minutes, too. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17915	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When I read this answer to the question and now I have heard the statement from the Federal Minister, a little cold showers have run over my back. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] Yeah, yeah, no problem. I asked myself, because I read there, “with two older armchairs already shrouded out of the upholstery”, it was dark, cold probably also: How did Mrs Gehrer do that? She's been sitting on the straw for eleven years. [[Cheerfulness at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you would have to apologize to Mrs Gehrer for her bad policy. How, then, can we make a good education policy on the chairs of straw in the windows and in the cold? It turns out now: Mrs Schmied is now making a better education policy, because she is no longer tied to straw, but on a day chair, which makes working a little more comfortable at least from 4 p.m. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] I would like to add that because I am not a fellow envyer, my dear colleague from the SPÖ in the third last row. You also sit hard, it's a hard bread in the club, that's why: I cannot share the criticism of this tank glass for the windows of Chancellor Gusenbauer. You got a little too deep into the drawer, because that's a real saving, because with the unhappiness that is just standing up among the comrades, tank glass saves the glassr in the future, because you can't know with what things they shoot at this glass, at the offices. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with BZÖ and FPÖ.]] We don't want it all, but I think it's a saving in the long run. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: This also protects against the “sister”!]] Mrs Bundesminister, you then said: Yes, what about promoting contemporary artists here? And Mrs. Muttonen said: Who if not the woman Minister of Art? – I understand that too. I'm really not an expert, I wouldn't consider that, but I asked the expert Morak, and he said, that's a little surprising, because many of these designers may have been contemporary, but have already blessed the contemporary and are no longer what you still consider to be desirable in today's time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] – Mr Faul is a real expert. Maybe he got such a nice office somewhere in the Ministry of Art. Mrs Bundesminister, I really see all of this in principle. Of course, a minister, a minister, must have a representative office. And I tell you quite honestly, I am always against it when these envy discussions arise when you say that it has it and it has it, and already again they get a percent more, and he has already ordered a new service car and already a new chair again. Of course, this is also often populist. And if you were to open an office somewhere in the city park in a tent, who else would come and get excited. I understand everything. But, Mrs Federal Minister – you were not here in this function and not here in the House – I can still remember very well how your group has been, the acrybian, with the magnifying, and perhaps also at night in the offices that have not been so well lit, have come up with the flashlight and have looked at what is going on there – no accusation; at least let me talk out the sentence! – what do the ministers of the ÖVP and the FPÖ or then the BZÖ do on terrible new things? [[He-Rufe by Mr Krainer and Mr Faul]] That's where every desk is scrutinized. Christmas trees have been criticized there. Christbaumkugeln were the main subject of the SPÖ Group here in Parliament when it came to showing here how the money is wasted and what not everything is now included in the minds of pensioners, children and students. You know, Mrs. Federal Minister, if you do this for years and really move everyone through the cocoa, every secretary follows whether the secretary has not come into any position politically motivated, and says that we would do it quite differently, and then, hardly in this position, you are not only doing the same, but also putting one thing on it and pretending that all this is all right, then you have to be criticized and sometimes a little ridiculed.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17998	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] – Mr Faul, a little more attention, please! [[15:40:28]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18028	We are now entering the brief debate on the request made by Mrs Ursula Haubner, the Family Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution 468/A(E) by Mrs Ursula Haubner and colleagues on strengthening fatherly union by introducing a "voluntary fatherly month" a period of up to 7. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker or speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes. The first speaker is available for reasons with a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18075	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Today, we have put on the agenda a deadline request for the introduction of the voluntary father month, for several important reasons. On the one hand, we have done this in order to put a sign that it is becoming quite unbearable in the Family Committee, in particular, that good opposition requests – and here I mean the opposition as a whole – are constantly being postponed, on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, because the government is already working on them; on the other hand, Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky says that there will be results in the next few weeks, especially in the case of the father month. That was in April. Or: At the last meeting of the Committee, when this request on which we were today and which we had tabled in November 2007 was again discussed, the Federal Minister stressed that this issue was a major concern of the government. There are already many first steps on this path, and others should follow in time. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, these are really just lip confessions! When I recall that this government has stated in its government programme on page 126: strengthening father participation in compatibility is in the foreground, I say to myself: What happened in these one and a half years? I'm thinking of the past legislative period. It was not possible for the SPÖ colleagues to go fast enough with a so-called fatherly protection month. Now you are the strongest party in the government, you are the Federal Chancellor, and now it says: [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klement: And don't do anything!]] Fathers, please wait! Done is null, nothing happened. When I think how many open construction sites there are in the family area! For example, there is a report on this: How does parent age arrive? – There is no government response. There are many improvements here. There is still this inconsistency limit for child care, there is still no care exemption for separately living parents. That's how I could say a lot more. The only thing you do – and you can do that quite well – is that you set each other up medially, who has what demands. That you can't agree in the government, that's what we're used to, that's nothing new. But I am very surprised that there are very different demands on the agenda in terms of father participation within social democracy. Mr Stadlbauer wished to have a “papa month” with legal claim; Madam President, Mr Prammer says that her call is for an income-related pension fund; Mr Buchinger says you should do something for the fathers so that they can relieve the women. Very interesting – and I say that I was actually pleased – is the latest proposal of the woman's minister. Because with her proposal – and it seems to me very well-known – she takes up a long-known BZÖ idea. I think that it is basically good if the BZÖ ideas also prevail in the care and family sector. Ladies and gentlemen! Our line, which reaches the father month, was always and is still the one that we said: In the existing system, we create more flexibility for the fathers by splitting this six-month block and using it one month after the birth – but, of course, not mandatory, but voluntary – that in this way a so-called parallel relationship with the mother is possible, a parallel relationship with the child care allowance. Because we mean what is true of mothers – as you have always said from the government parties, mothers need more flexibility – also for the fathers, this flexibility in the existing system of child care money. One thing is certain: Our model can be implemented quickly, and our model is also financeable. I therefore ask you to do so, especially here in Parliament: Don't just talk, but finally act! I think we're all in one question: The well-being of the child, the well-being of the children must be at the heart of the child, regardless of what kind of family children are born into. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We may also agree that fathers need to get even more opportunities to accompany and care for their children, if they want them – and most want to do so – from birth on. Our access, the access of BZÖ, is that we do not punish parents, i.e. mothers and fathers, if they take time for their children and give their children money, but that we reward them. At present, parents are being punished. They will be punished financially if I think about the recovery of the childcare allowance, which now amounts to € 2.8 million. €2.8 million, ladies and gentlemen, will be deprived of the families in Austria because of the recalculation of this dislodgment! This is the money that families lack. Families are also punished when we look at the pressures when we look at the burdens; I don't want to talk about individual ones here. There the government is inactive. Therefore: Reward parents! Financial rewards, social benefits, and especially when it comes to their professional success and continuing vocational training when they have children and take time for children. And do not punish them! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that is why I say: A greater commitment of fathers in family work is absolutely in line with the needs and responsibilities of young fathers today. That shows a lot of studies. The 2004 study of the OEIF clearly states: 71 percent of the fathers say they would interrupt their employment in the event of birth. Unfortunately, reality looks different: 95 percent have not interrupted their employment after the birth of a child. Therefore, I suggest: Let us now, at last, be quick to create a first step in terms of framework conditions so that desire and reality are actually brought together! I'm looking for you: Voices You also have to apply for this deadline today! Not in the sense of a parliamentarianism-new, as it has already been mentioned today, but here, in particular, my appeal to Social Democracy as the strongest government party, you take the opportunity to implement your own request, namely your women's minister's request. If you don't, you probably don't think much of this call from the Minister of Women. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18122	I would like to draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of Members who are now speaking is 5 minutes each. It is the first honourable Member to speak. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18147	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haubner, even though I cannot entirely understand in the replica that the chaos you have quoted has left you and colleagues from your party in the recoverys on child money, I would like to start by saying: [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ]] Positive on the real issue you have addressed, namely in the matter of paternal participation. The positive thing is that I note that, within the framework of family policy, we have a common objective across the parties, namely to increase father participation and to take measures that increase father participation. First of all, it is not always the case that we have common goals across parties, it is also controversial in family policy, and we do not always agree on all points. Let us therefore hold this point as positive: We all want to take measures to increase father participation. We do not quite agree on what measures are most useful. We can also note that important steps have already been taken in this legislative period. I refer to the flexibility of the childcare allowance. In a few months' time, we can see that one of the hopes we have associated with these shorter models, namely that we can also make attractive offers for fathers with the offer of the shorter models, is already in the first months, that this is equally accepted and that the short model of fathers is particularly widely used. I think that the important first step has been to think about child care money and perhaps, or hopefully, to take further steps during this legislative period, which should also lead to an increase in fatherhood participation. Now, the question of further consensus – which is not of course – is highlighted again. We all agree that a support in the first months of life, a support that the father can take time, would be an important concern. On this we also agree on a cross-party basis; on the other hand, we do not yet fully agree on what would be the best model for this. You are right to say that different models are in discussion for this. I myself have tabled in the last legislative period the application you have quoted for a period of protection of the father. I think it is – and I agree with my colleagues in our group – the optimal model for creating a legal claim for an exemption with a replacement of wages. This is the optimal model from our point of view. But we see that there are also other good models; we are all realists, Pragmatists. We see that this is the optimal model from our point of view, but we also want to really discuss the other models and consider what can be implemented as soon as possible. It seems that other models realistically have faster opportunities for implementation. One of these is the model you have submitted in this request, which allows you to prefer the child's entitlement to a child's allowance in the first month of life or in the first two months of life – that is again a difference – and to create a parallel relationship for the child. This is a possible, a good model; in turn, there are others. Mrs Haubner, you know as well as I do that, of course, it is not so easy on such issues and that it makes sense not to take a decision quickly in Parliament, but to consult those concerned. There are intense discussions not only between the government parties but also with the social partners. The social partners are currently talking, therefore, Mrs Haubner, is This request is not a good example of the fact that you rightly criticised the practice of postponement, the automatic postponement of the committees. I think that's a good example of talking to those concerned in order to find the best and as quickly as possible model in the next few weeks. I do not want to accept the model quoted by you, a good model, today, or to agree to it, but to wait the next few weeks. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18225	Next, Mr Wöginger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18246	Madam President. High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The so-called papal month or the father's karenz has been in conversation for a long time. I would like to start where Mrs Kuntzl has ended, namely that there is ongoing negotiations and discussions in this area. I am also of the opinion that it looks like they can be completed with a good result in the near future. In essence, two variants are discussed or two possibilities are available in the room. One is what Mrs Kuntzl mentioned from the SPÖ's point of view, namely the right of exemption for four weeks after birth with about €800 in payment, with the protection of dismissal and dismissal. This, in our view, is rather a typical social security matter, because one is involved in these areas and we believe that this should also be dealt with and discussed there. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Without the social partners, however, nothing brings you together!]] The BZÖ application – and we are certainly closer to that – goes in the direction of a preferred karenz month after birth with regard to child care money – to do this on a parallel rail, and it is counted on the overall claim for the option. That's your request. In the first two months after birth, this should be possible for a total of four weeks. I would like to mention one and perhaps say that from my own situation, as a double family father, as father of two charming daughters who are three and a half years and eight months old. Personally – I mean, the time as a politician is limited, we know – it is now at least so important for both the younger daughter and the older, that you have had the time after these four weeks, after these eight weeks, especially when the children grow up when they are a few months old or when they are two or three years old. There the father is at least as required and the father is needed at least as in the first four weeks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think you should just take this into account. It is not just a question of putting up a demand here or trying to achieve a genuine implementation in this area, so that we say: We have now created something for the fathers to increase the incentive. The changes in child care fees have enabled more and more fathers to use these variants, the shorter variants with 800 € and 15 or 18 months when the two partners are using them. This has a very positive effect on education, on common care, and that is generally very positive. I would like to mention – this is not directly related to matter – that a lot has happened in the family sector: the multichild family support, the baby package. And a large fraction of the tax reform for families with children is supposed to come, which I believe is indispensable and necessary. What is actually the current practice, and what is being used by the young fathers, by the young families at present? – It is not true that all our entrepreneurs are unhuman, but if someone becomes a father, then almost all businesses – that is what you have to say – have the opportunity to take a vacation to prefer the holiday. We have the right to care leave, which, if a child is under the age of 12, can be extended to two weeks without problems. Now, from our point of view, one can discuss a legal claim about saying that this holiday should be preferred. In my opinion, this is also a subject for the CV negotiations, a point which is likely to be achieved without major problems, in the sense of the younger families. We also have days off duty in our collective contracts, mostly two or three days, which can be claimed as paid holidays if you become a father or mother or if you get young people in your own home. I think you have to let that get involved in the discussion. Mrs Haubner, on your request, I can tell you that he is most likely to be compatible with us, and I would like to point out what Mrs Kuntzl said: Intensive negotiations are under way, truly intense, and it is no longer being postponed to the long-term. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Who's between?]] There are intensive discussions in this area, and Mrs. State Secretary Marek has told me today that this is also going to be a target. I believe that we should now be able to wait these few weeks and look at the outcome. I believe that this proposal can be very well integrated into ongoing discussions and discussions. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] This is our access. I would ask you to take this into account. We will strive to find a solution as soon as possible and quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18308	Mrs Mandak is now speaking. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18330	Madam President. High house! The request we are debating now has been postponed in the last Family Committee, as has all the other opposition requests. I have to tell you that at the end of this family committee, I really did. To sit in committees for hours, so that the requests made there and which are prepared are not even voted, but are regularly postponed, that is not a basis for political work. To blame us afterwards, we worked too little, we certainly don't like that. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: That's what fungus says that we don't work!]] We've just seen: It does not matter whether we make a request, as we have put it in relation to the father's month as an initiative proposal, which is drawn up on point and addition exactly as a legislative text, or whether it is a request, as Mr Haubner has put it, that leaves a further margin open to legal formulation. It does not matter whether the government is working on the subject or whether the government is not working on it. You always find a reason to say: This application shall be postponed. Over long distances we have been sitting there smilingly and have only considered: Now we are excited about the reasons for the next item on the agenda, why it is being postponed. In truth, however, this is not at all to smile or laugh. This is annoyed and democratic political if you, as government parties, choose such a procedure in the committees. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] The SPÖ has promised high and holy that if it is in the government, everything will be different. We were in the opposition together during the last legislative period and have often talked about it, and you have said: I'm sure we'll do this differently. And you make it clear! One thing is done that way! – Yes, but for our requests it is exactly the same as it used to be. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Worse! Now everything is raised to the constitutional rank!]] The liberals were no better, Mr. Cot. I can't tell you anything. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We did not make any constitutional changes!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You didn't have a constitutional majority either!]] I understand if the government parties cannot agree. Our request, for example, has gone in the direction or is going in the direction of enabling a father's care, a father's month – apologies! – to enable with a financial compensation of €800 per month, so that it is really possible for all fathers to take advantage of this month financially. If you feel that this is not a good model – is all right, but then, please, reject it. Position yourself as parties! Say: We don't want to. If Mr Wöginger here says that ÖVP and SPÖ are in a position to develop a concept, you will surely know today, for example, whether it is in the direction of financing a proportionate wage compensation of €800 or not. And if you don't want to, you won't. Then we can discuss inside here and not constantly delay and pretend that this is not a matter you can talk about. I ask you to really take a position. We will, of course, support this deadline proposal, and I very much hope that if this proposal is debated in the Committee, then our own initiative proposal will also be put forward, because it is the subject of course and because the question will be: What way do the government parties want to go in the area of the father month? Do you want to make a wage compensation or do you want to do so without a wage compensation or do you just want to take it as a part of the karenz relationship? These are three great ways to go. I expect you, as government parties, to know in principle what way you want to go, and that you are at last willing to reject clearly the ways you do not want to go, and to position yourself and say no, because you are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18418	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18441	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful to Mr Haubner for having tabled this request and thus allowing for a discussion which is very important. We know very well that both parents are important for the education of children. No matter what models you want, they need to be discussed. And I fully agree with the previous speakers. Of course, it must be possible to have a wide-ranging discussion in the committees too, and what is being done here on democracy policy is really an unbelief of SPÖ and ÖVP. We will also experience later in the discussion on family policy that there are no approaches at all and no more ideas from this government. They have really failed in family policy areas. Although in Austria we have the situation that the Child Law Convention is recognised, which states that children need both parents and that they have a right to it, only the implementation is another question. We also know that there is an incredibly bad situation in Austria when it comes to divorce procedures, which is a disadvantage for children. And we know that there is an urgent need for action here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As an Austrian, we have recognized this Convention, per forma, but we do not live it. This is a sign that we have a lot of need to catch up. We don't need a father month or a mother month, we need adequate and, above all, gender-specific education, that is, we both need father and mother, and I think that should be the point we are discussing. Today, unfortunately, we experience God’s experience that we have a totally fatherless society. In the area of the family we must experience that many, many children live without fathers. We have 11 percent single-schoolers. The fathers are completely missing. And then, when the children get older, it goes on: In kindergarten, preschool and later also in primary schools, male role models are missing. This leads to the fact that boys, young men, are totally unorientational, and there too it is appropriate to start. And we know that if young men have no role models, they have to experience misguides, and they often have to go to the empty, frustration. There is also the introduction of addiction, drug abuse and violence. These are things that are really dramatic. That means that we have to put up with these points as well. We must try to reintegrate the father more into family life in order to avoid these developments. There are enough studies to prove exactly that fatherlessness is responsible for the fact that young men are totally unorientated and also socially slipping. On the essential contents also by Mr Haubner: There is, of course, great economic pressure on men. That's what we need to treat. The idea of building fathers more into families is good, but – and now the big but – we know that the agreement of family and profession is almost impossible in men. This self-evident demand for women, for compatibility of family and work, which can also be supported, is almost impossible for men today, for men usually do not have a 40-hour week. There are often forced overtimes, there is often work on the weekend, often work out of the way, and especially the risk of not playing there to lose the job. [[Call the SPÖ:For the women too!]] I think that if we want fair treatment of all sides, we must also allow men to find a new orientation in this economic situation under this economic pressure. A whole new study proves this. We have seen that in Germany the family is thought of as a career killer. There is a study – I quote: According to a survey, almost every second German believes that family commitment to the career is harmful. For example, as well as 45 percent of respondents expect, due to a family start-up disadvantages in the career rise, as the study on behalf of the Bertelsmann Foundation proved. Almost a third of the respondents complained that the employer had expressed doubts about their willingness to perform after a birth. These are alarm signs. So we see that the economy and the family don't fit together. But we also see, above all, that fathers suffer from great pressure, and we see that there is a great need for action in the area. I expect that this deadline proposal will also be treated positively by the government parties, and I think we should urgently see that family policy, such as Bures, Buchinger and so on, cannot be the solution. We need, as I said, no separation of the sexes, we need a common fight for the family, but also a common struggle here in the High House for the development of our families. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18484	Next, Mr Dolinschek. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18505	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kuntzl, you said an important sentence. We all have the common goal of strengthening the role of fathers in this area. I am very glad that this is the case, only with the SPÖ there are different models. There's your model. There is the model of the colleague Stadlbauer, who calls for the abolition of the limit. That's what we want. There is the model of Federal Minister Bures and the model of President Prammer. So, you have to agree on something at some point, and then we'll go a little further. I'm very glad you don't say now that the babysitting money means back to the stove as you did years ago. In any case, the introduction of the childcare allowance has proved to be a good thing and undoubtedly contributed to the strengthening of the role of fathers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In my opinion, this should also be forced in the future, Mrs Colleague! In 2006, 970 fathers cared for their children at home in the first year of life. 1 620 fathers were in the second year, and 3,423 fathers were in the third year. In my opinion, fathers should be motivated. I emphasize the voluntaryity! It cannot be ordered by anyone, for everyone is not suitable for doing so to this extent. In any case, the motivation is very, very important. Mrs Kuntzl, you have also made significant changes in this legislative period, with this division – 30 plus 6 or differentiated as everyone wants, 20 plus 4, 15 plus 3. It turned out that the majority was for the original variant, namely 30 months plus 6 months, and for the other variants not even half. Yes, it is! 3 981 people were 30 plus 6 and 20 plus 4 were 1 212, and finally it was only 453 who opted for 15 plus 3 – in this year, stand: Calendar Week 12. That is a fact, Mrs Colleague! – diversity. [[Abg. May. Trunk: variety instead of simplicity!]] Right! And voluntaryity, Mrs Trunk, that is the important thing. In any case, however, we should work to strengthen the role of fathers. That's an opinion, isn't it? - Yes. Okay. The problem is a financial problem. Many fathers would like to be at home longer in the first year, in the second year, in the third year, but just not decreed. In principle, the whole is a financial problem. And, of course, that's where the limit of merit also plays a role. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that men today are as good as never interrupting their own employment in a child, although almost two thirds of men indicate that they want to interrupt their employment in favour of childcare. That's it! [[Abg. Steibl: It is just a difference between desire and reality!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is a need for action, and we are once again calling for the framework to be created to enable the fathers to have their desire for more participation and participation in child care, from the point of birth. On the comments of Mr Wägerbauer, who also has two small children and would like to spend a lot more time with them, I would just like to say one thing: This is a deadline until the 7th century. July. Mr Wägerbauer! If you always do... – Wöger, not Wägerbauer! [[Call the ÖVP:Woiger!]] Sorry! – If you are just waiting for the social partners in all things, what are you sitting for in this House at all? What are you Members of this House for?
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18572	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mrs Ursula Haubner and colleagues, the Family Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution 468/A(E) by Mrs Ursula Haubner and colleagues on strengthening fatherly union by introducing a "voluntary fatherly month" a period of up to 7. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is the majority! All right, let's go!]] [[16:15:46]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18616	I will resume the negotiations on item 6 of the agenda. First of all, I announce that, as already announced before the beginning of the meeting, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Berger is already on the journey to the Council of Justice in Luxembourg and Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied is present here in her representation. Mrs Dr Karl came to speak. 2 minutes desired speaking time. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Not here!]] – Mrs Dr. Karl is not here. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's after 4:00!]] Next, Mr. Dr.... No, wait! Mrs. Dr. Karl is here. [[Interlocutory calls from representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I haven't quite spoken the name yet. Well, that's right. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18669	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm out of breath now, but I think I can. Mr Donnerbauer has already mentioned that there have been concerns about the draft assessment. For example, the accusation of a label gap was raised. The costs would continue to arise and the tasks remained the same, but the work was no longer carried out by federal servants but by private employees. The draft assessment, which has been presented, has not clearly indicated that it is actually employees within the meaning of the Staff Act. Therefore, for the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, the question has rightly been asked whether the Service Law – and in this case the Contracting Staff Act – should be applied to the servants of this judicial service agency. The Ministry of Justice has taken up the suggestion of the Ministry of Economic Affairs to ensure clarity here. It is now explicitly regulated that the Employment Act and the rest of the labour law applicable to private employers should be applied. As a legal person under public law, the judicial service agency is also capable of collective contract in accordance with § 7 of the Labour Constitution Act and can conclude so-called collective agreements. According to § 22 of this Act, the Management Board shall immediately lead to the necessary negotiations to conclude a collective contract. The suggestion of the Federal Chamber of Labour to provide for a legal obligation to enter into a collective contract was in fact, even within a reasonable period of time, only partially complied with. The Federal Statistical Act as well as the Accounting Agency Act could have served as an example here. Both set a specific date as a final destination for the collective contractual negotiations required. It is a pity that such a concrete regulation is not included in the present draft law. However, I do not believe that this law should be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18712	Next, Mr Wittmann is speaking. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18734	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! We all know that over the last few years, the implementation of measures has been marked by major increases in medical care and care, and that all attempts to improve the situation have always been effective in the short term and have not actually brought any lasting relief. It is therefore an excellent idea to try to outsource through a federal agency those services relating to sickness and care services or other services to this agency. I believe that it means more flexibility for the Ministry of Justice to outsource these services and, if necessary, bring them through the Agency, and that it also makes sense to have an agency handle the private service contracts – 270 individual contracts – concluded by private law. The Ministry gains more flexibility and savings of around € 2 million in 2009 and around € 8 million in 2010 are foreseen. I believe that this also brings flexibility to the Ministry in other areas, namely in employment and in the necessary employment in other areas, namely in supervision, in judicial officials, where Mr Pendl has been pointing out for years that there are far too few judicial officials for far too many prisoners. I consider this possibility of flexibility and saving in the field of care to be a useful measure and I consider it an excellent measure. – Bravo, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18770	Mrs Riener. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18791	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! A lot has already been said about the judicial service agency. I think this is also to support because it is about cost savings when I look at day rates when I have to accommodate someone in a hospital outside the judiciary, 400 € and, in contrast, accommodations, such as in the institution stone, 200 €. But just as a staff representative, let me ask you the following questions: We in the Styria region have had a number of outlays. None of the exclusions were cheaper than the public service sector, even because of the legal working system alone, that sometimes more posts are necessary when the areas are distributed. However, it is also about the fact that, particularly in the psychological, social-worker, caregivers, the salaries were basically always based on the public service. – So there is no savings to be expected either. If it is said now – I am taking it very seriously, what the Federal Minister in the Committee has said; unfortunately, she is no longer here – the planning posts will not be provided to her, then I wonder if there would have been no more planning positions if she had raised this part of the material effort – because she is now paying the money from the Ministry of Justice's budget – to the Federal Chancellor's Office or to the Minister of Finance. In the final effect, I am convinced that even more savings would have been possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18822	The next speaker is Mr Köfer. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18843	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! The planned establishment of an own judicial service agency is not only to be welcomed due to the cost savings. After the introduction of this agency, the judicial unit already expects a savings potential of up to €2 million for 2009, and in 2010 the cost savings are expected to be €8 million, according to the calculation of the resort. For me as mayor, on the one hand, the security of the citizens is a source of tension, but on the other hand, I am also particularly concerned about the cost-effectiveness of the public sector. In addition to the cost- another important argument is why the creation of this agency with the external office of Asten and the judicial body to be set up Vienna Baumgasse is more than welcome: In the future, it should be possible to prevent the outbreak of the Christian Doppler Clinic in April of last year – this outbreak has for months been a cause of noticing throughout the federal territory, especially in Salzburg, and also in Bavaria. But at this point I would also like to take up another Causa, which was already inspired by me months ago: In view of the fact that during a hospital stay of a prisoner not only his medical care needs to be ensured and thus financed, but also the round-the-clock surveillance, the question arises whether his own prison hospital for the whole of Austria would not be more cost-effective. The existing hospitals in the Stein Penal Detention Centre and in the National Prisoner's House in Vienna, Josefstadt, at least leave it closed. I therefore urge, in the interests of the best possible discharge of the State budget, a discussion on this and also a calculation of the costs.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18879	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18901	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In this context, many facets of rationalization, saving and targeted budgeting have been articulated – that is true! I also believe that we should not forget that people have been able to take action, for example in the hospital, and also in the context of the various reforms in the field of care and health, getting openness and clarity as to whether people are really at high cost in the hospital, or whether it is in our case, where it is specific measures to ensure a special mix of measures in the surveillance, care and resocialisation of so-called mentally abnormal legal criminals, does not need funds other than a classical hospital stay that costs twice as much as another specific measure that would be more appropriate. We know that in finding resocialisation measures, we have to go quite different ways than before, that we need other disciplinary involvements. The scientific, the medical and therapeutic and the care know-how is growing daily, that is, you need more and more staff than it has been, so far, classically, the judicial guard officials or then the hospital. – And these new challenges of finding and organizing a policy mix are to be addressed by the support agency. What Mr Riener said is that: It is also safe to see whether the efficiency targets and the effectiveness of the measures and the selection of persons will be achieved with this monitoring agency. – I am confident that we are doing this monitoring and evaluation and that we are The results will come and then take action or confirm the path taken. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18940	I call Mr Pendl. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18961	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister Berger did not take up any minor office, and I have here very often pointed out the difficult situation in criminal proceedings in recent years, especially in the execution of measures. If we honestly think it – and I did not say this here long ago – then we would have to consider who would actually be responsible for the hospitals and for their costs: the countries! I can well remember how many years ago the national financial experts made every effort to ensure that they only come to the league. – The Federation has just had to take over it, and since then justice has been blaming. And I say quite openly to that, and every physician will give me the right: Either you're sick or you're not sick. [[Abg. Steibl: Or you're healthy!]] But the sick, Mrs. Colleague, the justice “to hang” had not been done at any time! If we do not watch out, then the Austrian judicial institutions will become psychiatric institutions, and we do not want to do so and they are not intended for it either. Let me, because this is very, very important, to thank the Federal Minister – I would like to extend my thanks – but above all also in the civil service very much. This story was not easy, but the demarcation – now that Mr Donnerbauer is not here – has clearly succeeded in the cooperation of Parliament and the Board. And if Mr Steinhauser spoke today as the first speaker, that was a privatisation, then I can tell him the following: For over 30 years, justice has been buying services, that's nothing new at all! It is important that we clearly define what is the duty here. This is done by the state and its institutions – Mr Donnerbauer, I have just said that this is clearly regulated here – and where are special areas, especially where the psychotherapist services and all these issues are concerned. I believe that justice is a truly sensitive area and we should try together to provide it with the necessary resources, both budgetary and human. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18996	The next speaker is Mr Obernoster. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19017	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it has really been said by my previous speakers and all the numbers have already been put on the table. I would really like to congratulate the Minister on this step: This is about savings and not about privatisation in justice! I think it's urgent. This is why the ÖVP clearly supports the creation of the so-called judicial service agency. As I said, Mrs Minister: The ÖVP is all behind it! I congratulate you on this step! This will save public resources, saving tax money. And when I look up there, I see up there (the speaker looks toward the Abg. Rädler, who has a large paper in front of him, with the following inscription: “16 00 o’clock service (I am still there!!!)), as follows: 16 o'clock service; I'm still there. – I do not know what that means now, but at least for the ÖVP banks I can confirm this: We're still here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19054	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19075	Madam President. I think it's essential that you don't always make a remote impression. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps I can only say one thing very briefly – essentially, one can of course conclude the words of our Otto Pendlan, not only with regard to the words of thanks to the officials, but also with regard to the content –: We have had a few discussions in the debate about whether this law should now be the first step in a more comprehensive privatisation, and I would like to take the floor on the occasion and therefore here to note that this is not the case! If you read § 2 in the Constitution, it reads: You, the Agency, are entitled to hire staff for this purpose. And paragraph 2 says: Among these tasks is in particular:... And this word “in particular” has been the subject of whether this is more or less an input snow for further privatisations. I can say: It's not about that! I should like to mention briefly what Mr Pendl has done this morning – and I would like to thank you very much for this – and that we should pay particular attention to the fact that the involvement of those who will do these activities in the future – ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP will hopefully apologise for bothering them here in the lecture – at least also to the national court for criminal matters, where there are institutions that are currently active, and where some of them may still have to be clarified. [[EIA MPs are in the process of talking to each other]] And I think it is important to see that we are doing very carefully in the future when it comes to involving new organisations, but also in the case of already existing organisations working there. That's what I wanted to put on. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19123	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 555 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[16:35:00]] 7. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (505 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the vocational training law, the labour market service law, the Youth Training Security Act, the Insolvency Insurance Act, the Labour Market Tax Act, the Land Labor Law 1984, the Agricultural and Forestry Vocational Training Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Special Support Act, the Labour Market Promotion Act, the Income Tax Act 1988, the IAF-Service-GmbH Act, the Labour Law, the Labour Law, the Employment and Social Court Act, the Occupational Pensions Act, the Institu­tion Order and the Implementing Regulations, and the Amendment No 593/A(E) by Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek, Members of Parliament, on the removal of existing disadvantages for apprentices in the event of entitlement to unemployment benefit and the Amendment 621/A by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, BGBl. No. 609/1977, amended (571 e.g.) 8. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Federal Law on the Employment of Children and Youths in 1987 (576 d.a.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 522/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues on the introduction of a nursing education (572 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19221	We now come to points 7 to 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Kickl. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19251	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! You can hardly be surprised at this government about anything, and if you've been following the debate in the last few hours and minutes, it was a very, very funny matter to know that the popular chancellor was behind Panzerglas barricaded and that one can look at the achievements of the applied socialist architecture at the woman's Minister of Art, because there lies a day's lie for sinteur money. – So there is already a lot in there, and you are in some way hardened. But there is also one or the other, which is interesting on the side of the ÖVP! And I think it is funny that Mr Amon at least led, I say now, before the last Committee, and that is why we have not tabled our own motion for a resolution on the subject, but at least in which he has prepared the draft law on which it is here today and which has been discussed in the committee, so to speak, in a wise way and obviously in actual knowledge, for its content from the outset, has actually expressed distrust. In fact, it has logically stated that at the same time as the law, one should make a decision in case it does not work. – He added, however, that he does not assume that it does not work, but you ask yourself what you need at all, but well. I am a little sorry that Mr Amon then did not make the request, because, basically, the scepticism he expresses in relation to this law, which is now in the process of decision-making, is not at all unjustified in the trend. So we share this scepticism about this law in broad areas, and I would also like to tell you why. In general, it may be noted that this is not the first employment and training package with guarantees, with which one sets an incredibly ambitious goal and with which one places the latte incredibly high – as now with the promised training guarantee and with the promised placement of a job – we are so accustomed in the meantime by socialist German Chancellors. One or the other has then passed to Argentina in a further row, and we have now seen from one that he is already visiting Argentina. I suspect that it is less about improving the intergovernmental relations between Austria and Argentina, but I think that because of the massive stories you have on Kerbholz, especially in social policy failure, you can look around where you could change if it doesn't happen at your own party day in autumn – but please. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] So it's not the first time you've been operating on full-fledged announcements, and it's going to be like this once again that the SPÖ will then dance a Limbo under this announcement bar and the uncovered checks will basically prove what they are: uncovered checks and empty promises. In this employment package, ladies and gentlemen, the devil is in detail. There is, for example, the so-called development of the Blum-Bonus system. That's where you have to say: It's a bit strange and there's something that can't be voted if you do it like SPÖ and ÖVP, because if you're trying to develop something, and if you've invented what's to be developed, you're gonna put your hands on your head and say: No, I have nothing to do with this further development! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The inventor of the system has, as it were, distanced himself from the further development you attribute. This is no wonder either, because there are very, very substantial shortcomings in it. These major shortcomings ensure that: Because the whole thing's going to go back. Have you perhaps believed, ladies and gentlemen, that if you write the word “quality assurance” into a legislative text a few times, this quality assurance is also done automatically? - I have to let you down. It is also in this area, unfortunately, that nothing comes from it. We are basically all agreed that in Austria we still have a certain advantage as far as quality in training is concerned, but I also say to you: We still have this advantage and should do everything we can to get this advantage. I think that's where we all agree. But this will not succeed if you only write the word “quality assurance” but it will only succeed by ensuring this quality assurance in training. But what you're doing with your package is that you can extract the grant mold, completely undifferentiated over all companies, and basically throw the money out of the window at the target. I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, the SPÖ. I don't understand that you're already going back to your knees and acting softly, just because a few black officials cross over against these quality assurance measures, so to speak. Once again, instead of doing something that has a sustainable benefit for the future of our own youth, you fall around. Quality assurance without quality control, ladies and gentlemen, is an encounter. You should have learned that. Let us take a look at the example of the discussion about the PISA study: If you hadn't checked it, you might have invested billions more and aberbillions in a system where you're going to get to the rear of it, actually working towards the goal, and people don't even learn what you're going to do with this training system. This means that quality control has proved itself here – even if the responsible ones like the cast puddles are daily eating when they have seen the results. That's why you should take over this quality assurance model here as well. Because Mr Molterer has reproached with us all and said that we should not only criticize it, but also say how it works better – I tell you how it is better: All we need to do is do what we want to be free and what Mr Blum is actually proposing: There is a need for some kind of training in the middle of the training period, which would be a useful measure. Tag ‘Quality bonus’: Those who declare themselves ready to receive this bonus of €1,000 one-time payment. While it would be necessary to make the effort to introduce Austrian quality standards, the system would be verifiable and useful. The whole thing should happen on a voluntary basis. We don't want to force anyone, but voluntaryness is to be rewarded. We want to create an incentive and not punish. Only when this is the case is guaranteed that you are working in this area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a few words on older workers: I mean, we all agree that in the area of older workers, we have a problem with the employment rate – it is too low. We believe that it is useful to reduce additional labour costs for older workers, to take over unemployment insurance from a certain age and thus to ensure that the older workers become cheaper. In this way, we could perhaps achieve a higher employment rate in the area of older workers. But what you cannot explain to me is why you are starting this measure from the age of 57, although it actually starts at 55. It would be sustainable and not half-hearted to use 55, ladies and gentlemen. We want to know this sustainability from FPÖ. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Allow me to make a final comment – I have to praise you for something. I need to praise you for what you took over from FPÖ in this package. This is the point of ensuring that you improve the protection of apprentices in terms of termination. Therefore, it cannot be possible for apprentices, as they have been before, to be harmed if, due to the loss of their commercial rights, the teacher loses his teaching or training rights and a gap arises from the date of this loss until the application for unemployment benefit for the apprentice and remains, as it were, at the expense of which he cannot. This gap is now being closed. The date from which the training power is lost shall be deemed to be the date on which the apprentice is entitled to the unemployment allowance. This is a reasonable thing, you have written off from the FPÖ, and we thank you for that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because we would like to vote in favour of this point, I would like to put to the vote the request for a separate vote for this Article 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19414	The amendment which has just been tabled by Mr Kickl is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19479	The request for a separate vote has already been put to the vote. Mrs Mitterlehner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Mitterlehner. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19503	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kickl, I do not know whether you have been sufficiently concerned with the system you are talking about and have read the legislative text sufficiently. If you criticise this, there would be a right to employment which does not correspond to reality, then you do not know that we are talking here about the most successful system in Europe, namely dual training. We have 130 000 apprentices, i.e. around 40 percent of each age group opt for this form of training. This works very well and is now being improved with this law towards quality, first of all in the field of basic promotion. They have criticised the fact that this law would promote them in accordance with the principle of foundry. [[Abg. That's what Dr. Blum, the inventor, says!]] This is not true, but the previous casting canning, namely that a basic funding of € 1,000 is granted for each apprentice, is converted to apprentice compensation. The promotion is made in the direction that in the first year three compensations are granted, in the second two and in the third. This has a very eminent advantage: Especially in the time when he still needs training and does not really use the operation towards offsetting, a higher promotion is given, afterwards a lower one. This also creates a kind of competition between the individual sectors. The whole thing is dynamic and goes up. That is why it is a very good promotion. Second part of the new structure is qualitative promotion. It is logical that the flower premium based only on additionality cannot be continued forever. Somewhere I don't have any increase anymore, but it's set to quality. You criticized that. You said there was no controlling. – Yes, it is not in the law now, the funding guidelines are first created, which is actually not a problem. This is aligned in such a way that quality control is also made possible under the relevant procedures in relation to the examination. However, it is clear that this control will become relatively expensive. On the other hand – that is said again and again – one should look at as few people as possible in this direction as possible – namely for control. Third point: Personal support remains with the AMS. We then have a second component, which I would also like to address, namely the termination of teaching relations after the first and second years of teaching. It kind of has a semantic contradiction when you say: The aim is to ensure more employment and more training. The background is simple: Many young people at the time when they start teaching have a different idea of the working world and a completely different development profile than afterwards, three years later. This is precisely the stage in which some progress is being made in this regard. Therefore, the teacher should somehow have the guarantee that, if that is different, he will have the chance to offer the boy a different opportunity. In this respect, this training guarantee is very important and, I would say, a corresponding progress. That is why we have ensured both components: on the one hand, a new structure in promoting more quality and on the other hand, when the apprentices quit, a guarantee that training in other areas is carried out. I therefore believe that this is a very successful implementation in the field of apprenticeship training.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19562	Mr Dolinschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19583	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Vocational training is essential and important. Therefore, it should be checked again and again where you can improve something there. The dual vocational training system is beyond doubt because it has proved successful in the past. If, as I have just said, the apprenticeship training premium is transformed into a basic grant, I cannot ask a question, Mr Mitterlehner. The special promotion, namely the further development of the Blum-Bonusse, which has proved itself in the past – you can only be for that. The only manko is that companies that constantly train apprentices – most of them businesses that do not oppose a quality check – do not receive this premium if they no longer hire an apprentice. If a company breaks down – how long does it have to interrupt until it stops apprentices? One year, two years? Mr. Minister, this is a mystery to me. I also did not get an answer to this question in the Committee. It is important that, in any case, those farms are being promoted and forced to train our youth, because these are the skilled workers of tomorrow. We will urgently need them in the future. Personalised support also means promoting courses, blocking courses for the resurgence of vocational qualifications and the like. Training in professions where there is a shortage of skilled workers is also an important measure and is supported by us. I have to say something to re-regulate the resolution of a teaching relationship: I understand the intention of the representatives of the economy in this area and say very clearly: So far, there is simply no clear solution to resolve a teaching relationship – except during the probation period, after the probation period actually not. Nevertheless, 20 percent of existing teaching conditions are resolved early. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] That's what it's like: Teaching relationships are dissolved because an apprentice insists that he lacks motivation or that he does not have the necessary suitability for this profession. That is why it is important that this measure is now being put in place – which I am support – that in the future the AMS will ensure that this apprentice can continue his training elsewhere. I was only surprised that the representatives of the Chamber of Workers, Mr. Schopf, Mr. Tumpel or Mr. ÖGB President Hundstorfer, agreed without further delay. Mr Amon has also had his concerns. I can win a lot, but everything has to be on the right track. As far as the AMS is concerned, where a replacement training site is found, I must say that this injustice in the disadvantage of apprentices in the right to unemployment benefit is now God is also over. This gap has been closed; I very much appreciate that. In general, one can be satisfied with this law. Federal Minister! You will now report on it every two years. In this we will find out whether this has proved to be the case, namely, the withdrawal of the protection of termination – whether it is not exploiting it now. We'll see. There may be a need to respond with a further innovation. Because one cannot be, that this means that a lot of apprentices have to lose their apprenticeship and look for a new one!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19634	Mrs Csörgits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19656	Madam President. Thank you, Minister of State! Mrs. State Secretary! I think we all agree here in the House that it is a very, very important task of policy to give young people a future perspective in their own country. A very important requirement is that young people in their country should be able to have a corresponding vocational training. On the one hand, this is a future perspective for a young person, but on the other hand it also offers Austria the opportunity to access qualified staff. I am therefore pleased that this Youth Employment Package is probably the largest youth employment package in the Second Republic. It is a great package because it has provided the opportunity for young people to have a training guarantee, either in an over-company workshop or in the field of dual vocational training. This is a great success. I am very, very proud of this and would like to thank the social partners who have conducted very decisive negotiations here. However, I would also like to thank Mr Bartenstein and Mr Buchinger as well as Mrs Marek for the good cooperation. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In connection with the change in the funding structure, I would like to advance – Mr Mitterlehner has already referred to it very intensively – that there will also be support in addition to basic funding, which takes account of very special conditions, for example, when a company creates additional apprenticeships or is setting up new ones, and if a company, which for whatever reason has interrupted its apprenticeship training for some time, is training apprentices again. A special aid will also be available to such establishments in the future. What is also new and a qualitative improvement is the promotion linked to very special qualities. For example, a certain amount of support can be given to: If an establishment continues to qualify its trainers. I think this is a very important point because in the field of vocational training it is always necessary to be at the heart of time and to transport improvements in a company accordingly to trainers. An important point is also that a funding mechanism is being introduced for apprentices who have very good qualifications in a farm due to their excellent training. As President of the Women's Organisation in the ÖGB, I think it is a very important point that this measure should also ensure that women are increasingly accommodated in the so-called non-typical women's professions. In my opinion, one of the most important reasons – although not the only one – for the differences in income between the sexes is that women continue to choose traditional women's professions, which are traditionally not particularly forward-looking and often not well paid in many ways. I therefore believe that this package, as well as the motivation and the ringing and effort of all here to bring women more strongly into non-traditional occupations for women, is a step in the right direction. Dear ladies and gentlemen! There are certainly still some points that are open. When I think of my trade union youth, the demand for the cost of training in boarding school was also an important point in this area. We couldn't reach that yet. However, I am sure that we will continue to negotiate together in order to bring about this point of call for a realization. Finally, I would like to say: It's a good package. I think that this has made a huge step in the right direction towards increasing the quality of training – and thus also the quality of the future – for our young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19713	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19734	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Craftsmanship has golden soil, and still in Austria, thank God. Anyone who has learned a craft and has acquired the necessary skills can achieve very, very much in this field of work. But since 1990, the number of starters of teaching has fallen from 50 percent to the 40 percent already mentioned by Colleem Mitterlehner. In small federal states such as Tyrol, Vorarlberg and Burgenland, the figures are even better because there are a lot of small businesses there that are very happy to train apprentices. We find half of all starters in the field of trade and crafts. The industry is still lagging behind. What we also need to know is that about 5,000 young people attend reception courses and in addition 10,000 young people either do not find a teaching place or are accommodated in short-term AMS courses. In other words, it must be an important task for politics to ensure that the first path of the youth does not lead to the AMS, but to the teaching centre in a farm. That's a very essential thing for us. Many teachers and businesses complain that these days young people entering a teaching centre are not sufficiently familiar with basic cultural techniques – reading, writing, computing. – These deficits exist. We can't discuss them away. That is why, also from the vocational schools, the demand is constantly growing, but vocational schooling has to be extended a little so that these important basic cultural techniques are taught. Of course, the economy does not like to participate, because even during the time when the apprentice is in the vocational school, the apprentice also carries the costs for the apprentice. Therefore, we believe that it would be a good step to let the costs of this apprentice be borne by the public authorities during the vocational schooling period. I know, many say, well, the apprentice also does something for the company. – While he is in vocational school, but not! We also see this first as a promotion of youth, second as an economic promotion and third as a promotion for the labour market. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The cost of 120,000 apprentices in Austria would be about €100 million. Ladies and gentlemen, to my request concerning nursing education. I am well aware that this is a very delicate matter and that, of course, one is thinking about whether someone who is 15, 16 years old is in this very demanding profession... – I have said it is about three things: first of all, about promoting youth, secondly about promoting the labour market and thirdly also about promoting those economic sectors that are willing to train apprentices. [[Abg. Shopf:... discharge? Why do you want to give this to the Republic from the farms?]] [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] The shortage of skilled workers in Austria is constantly being complained of, and I think it is a right step in that supportive intervention. In the time when the apprentice is in the vocational school, he does not work for the company. In this time too... – Yes, however, every gymnasiast also does, or anyone who visits a BHS! [[Call the SPÖ: He learns! He's learning for the farm!]] He also learns for the company for which he will be active in the future. - That's why this request is made. [[Abg. Hornek: That's it! Every student learns!]] So, now to the nursing school. This is a very delicate request because we have to ask ourselves the question: Can a 15-, 16-year-old person meet these high physical and mental requirements? I don't think everyone can. Some of them can. You know that in Austria at the age of 15 you can start training as a pilot. At the age of 16 you can do the test. However, the suitability must be determined beforehand. I have toward the end of my 16. Year of life made my ticket – very sorry, I have to say today, but nevertheless: You can do it. In Switzerland there is the care teaching. There are positive and negative messages. I found an article from a delegation that was in a local eyelet. ==References====External links== September 2007: At first one was skeptical, but then convinced that this was a courageous way. - Quote. My proposal: Let us invite nurses from Switzerland to Austria – perhaps the Minister of Labour, the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Health – to listen to their reports and then discuss whether this path would be more common for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19824	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Honey. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19845	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The so-called apprenticeship package now provides us with a very comprehensive catalogue on the training and employment of young people. It is to be hoped that the objectives pursued will be achieved, although I already have to say that there are already significant weaknesses to be identified. It is, of course, to be welcomed in principle that there is this fixed basic support on the one hand and that specific quality criteria for promotion are introduced on the other hand. But then, in your template, you only roughly define – only very rough! – seven purposes to which these promotions are intended. For example, there is “increasing the quality of apprenticeship training” without further defining what that is supposed to mean. It is also called “promoting training in teaching professions according to regional needs of skilled workers. ” . You too, Mr Minister, have not been able to explain in detail to me in the Committee how this is to be seen in practice, who defines the need for skilled workers, who sees whether the skilled person lacks a apprenticeship or lack of skills. All of this is not included in your presentation, because the more detailed definition of the procurement directives will then be defined in a funding committee. It is shared by social partners and is also the level, duration and requirement criteria for this support. – I have to say that I find this a little bit of competence for an area that will be completely excluded from parliamentary co-determination and thus also control. We do not know exactly what criteria this support will then be given in detail. As we have heard from Mr Mitterlehner, it will also be the case that control of the directives which are not yet known will be saved. In a motion for a resolution, we demand that there be clearer wording and, above all, clarity in recovery criteria. There is, of course, a specific situation that has been raised to us: There are unfortunately – for me he- terrifying – many cases of sexual harassment of apprentices. It seems urgent to us to include the case of sexual harassment explicitly as a recovery criterion in the catalogue, and also, of course, similar situations, such as cases of discrimination. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klaus Hubert Auer.]] - Please? I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I have not yet explained the first point – the special promotion of girls: Unlike Mrs Csörgits, I do not read this out of the draft law, but it is about the uniform access of young women and young men. So I would say that there needs to be an explicit definition of the promotion of girls and women. – This is about the great area of promotion. They already know from the Committee that we are skeptical of the type of financing – namely through the insolvency fee fund – and that we welcome the training guarantee in itself, but reject the combination with the possibility of termination. Mrs Zwerschitz will go further into this. I would like to take up one point which has unfortunately not been raised in the debate so far. Mrs Csörgits referred to him briefly. It is about the boarding costs for professional students who are unable to commute between the place of residence and the place of school. These costs must in many cases be borne by the apprentices themselves. This is such a high financial effort that it does not rarely make use of the entire compensation for apprentices. The cost of travel from residence to boarding school must also be paid by many apprentices themselves. I think that is an unreasonable financial burden. The Austrian trade union youth has also launched an initiative. Minister Buchinger wanted to do this. – Unfortunately, it has not yet been so far. We support this initiative and I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] So much about the apprentice theme at the apprenticeship package. Unfortunately, you have also subjected us to other issues in this package, such as a change or extension of the combination wage model. You know, we are critical of the combination wage model as a labour market policy measure. I also wonder where evaluation data on the previous model have remained. What has led you to consider this extension necessary and meaningful? In summary: a careful well to the apprenticeship package, despite the weaknesses, but a definite no to some details such as the combination wage or the cancellation possibility for apprentices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19988	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Schatz are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20114	I also announce that the motion for a resolution tabled earlier by Mrs Ing. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20184	Mr Bartenstein spoke from the government bank. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20205	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. State Secretary! This Youth Employment Package is indeed intended to make further progress in the field of youth employment and apprenticeship training Austria. Mr Kickl! We have a lead there. We do not have an advantage “yet, ” but we have an advantage that we remember further expanding. If Mrs Schatz has also discussed issues of discrimination in particular, I must say: I believe that apprentices should not be treated differently than workers in general. You know that tomorrow, in the plenary session of the National Council, a novel on equal treatment law will be discussed, and the Secretary of State will also represent it. To your approach – in principle well, but it needed more money –: I can tell you that with this youth employment package, there is a significant increase in youth employment, with a focus on quality, and we are trying to improve the financial environment step by step. The glass is not half full or half empty, but in the matter of youth employment it is, I mean, almost full. There are, of course, certain deficits that need to be accepted. A very important basis for this is the broad consensus in this country – Not only among the social partners, but also usually in the House, at least between the relevant political groups, and this does well, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the number and percentage of young people starting dual vocational training has fallen – from some time more than 50 percent to some 40 percent now, I believe – not necessarily negative. I mean, we have to be happy with the 40 percent right now. All practitioners know that your criticism of sometimes missing basic cultural techniques is not unwarranted. Of course, this also has to do with the fact that approximately 10 to 15 percent of all young people have learned nothing at all in the past, but have been opposed to uncertain career prospects, have become auxiliary workers, and from today's point of view there are almost no opportunities in the labour market. These young people are now being integrated into the dual training system, including integrative vocational training. This, of course, is already the result of some sort of deficit. Second – Hand to heart –: There are, of course, many more young people today who, as migrant children in the second or third generation, are particularly lacking in language skills, even after completing the school. All practitioners know that this is an obstacle, especially the representatives of the AMS, who often have to take German courses before qualification courses. The key to reducing deficits is to eliminate the shortage of German knowledge, especially in the interests of these young people! So I do not see this as being in principle negative. Apprentices and what they then represent in professional life are, of course, the basis of our specialist know-how, which is an absolute asset in international competition. That's what the big thing in the economy sees. I am very satisfied with the training efforts in industry, commerce and services, especially in the tourism sector. I mean, the industry could do more. There are such and such companies: those who have been intensively training for decades – these are usually the successful ones – and those who do not or still do not do so. I am very glad that this decision to transfer trade to a free trade has not had a negative impact on the training discipline of trade. Mr Riepl! On the contrary: Savings and Billa and the others today make up more apprentices than before, and – when I think of the academies and much more – also in even better quality. So that's going right and very well. Madam honourable Member, you have mentioned the seven objectives, and they are too roughly formulated. – If you want to leave room for the social partners to establish quality criteria even in the funding committee – how does this look like: more girls in typical men’s professions, in the valleys more trained into disadvantaged professions and more like it – then you can’t solve that by law. This is not a shift of competence from Parliament elsewhere, but it is a good thing that this is then established in the guidelines of the Committee on Funding. There is also a quick reference to new developments. Also what the further development of the “Blum-Bonus” is about – a real success model! –: I think, not the only one, but the main reason why there are 130 000 apprentices again today and not only 121 000, 122 000 as three four years ago, was just the Blum-Bonus, this incentive to train in addition. The fact that this is being further developed in the interest and in the sense of more quality, with the participation of the very successful and recognized apprentice representative of the Federal Government's Commercial Council Egon Blum, is in the very sense of the inventor. There is, however, a certain shortage of skilled workers in Austria – but not only in Austria, but in reality in Europe and now in the world. This is, of course, also in the interests of the economy, but also in the interest of the young people, who, as a skilled worker, have a bright chance in working life. The fact that we are rightly committed to training our own young people first and above all, and then to taking into account other possibilities is also absolute consensus. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we have to expect, as a result of the high birthrate years, that not all young people who are seeking a training place find a classic, even from the point of view of the trade union clearly preferred, vocational and operational training place, we know. That is why, with this Youth Employment Package, we have also developed what was once a JASG course – partly isolated, in part ten months and then a break – into a fully continuous, equivalent training within the framework of over-company training centres. Again: Even trade union representatives say that it is preferable to them if there is a classical training place, but it is not always possible anywhere, so in many ways there is an alternative to the over-company training place in the training centre. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! So we're starting from a high level. However, we should not be satisfied, not at all self-satisfying, but this youth employment package, which has also been discussed in the Committee to a large extent in consensus, is in order to get even better. If this motion for a resolution, which I am aware of, is still to be tabled - I do not, of course, want to go ahead with the honourable Member - I am totally d’accord, in particular as regards the evaluation of this transfer of training. If the objectives are achieved, wonderful if the objectives are not achieved or even missed, then we will intervene very quickly. Overall, this is an area where you need to re-adjust and improve again, because the conditions over five, six, seven years do not remain completely the same. In this way, I would like to express my warm thanks to the Secretary of State, who is to a great extent responsible here – a focus of her activity – and also to the honourable Member – Mrs Csörgits has already said this in our direction – and to the social partners. I think we are moving forward a good deal in the interests of our young people, but of course also in the interests of the economy, which these boys then urgently need as qualified workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20322	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20345	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The contributions made by my previous speakers, but also by what Mr Bartenstein has now said, also connect us in the knowledge that we cannot all afford to have no training, to have a bad training, and thus to find no job or job. That is why our commitment at all levels is particularly required. The government has now presented a new youth employment package, which we will also agree with on the part of the BZÖ. Mr Dolinschek has already explained it. I think it is another youth employment package that meets the new conditions and new requirements for young people. It's not a new one, it's not the first package, but it's been reversed in 2003. Especially in the 1990s, the apprenticeship market was a very critical one, a very badly occupied one. That is why in the last government, in 2003, we also set the right political lines, such as through the Blum bonus for additional teaching posts, through the use of apprenticeship consultants, which has proved itself very well, but also through an increased commitment of the federal and state departments of the AMS and ultimately also through the many medium-sized and small businesses and entrepreneurs who have agreed to promote and train young people accordingly. I think there has already been a turnaround at the time. This new youth employment package could be used to say: Prosperity will be strengthened, further development will take place and, of course, new ones will also be allowed. We find it right when the flower bonus is maintained, but of course it is even more targeted. We think it is right that there are additional incentives for businesses, especially when it comes to quality, when it comes to excellent apprentices or apprentices who have an additional education. It's all going in the right direction. I also hope that it is now only a matter of time that a federal uniform arrangement for free access to teaching with Matura is also possible all-Austrian, because the model Carinthia has proved itself very well for several years. It has been shown that particularly demanding skilled workers cannot be occupied over and over again, because too few performance-oriented trainees are available. We have – and Mr Dolinschek has already said it – first of all also seen very critical the easing of the protection of termination. I think the discussion we were having was good, because just a few intermediate tracks were pulled in: In early resolution, there is the mediation procedure, but also the guarantee that young people can and should be trained in another area. But it seems to me, if I may say so, nevertheless a very high red tape. It will be seen whether these requirements, which exist here, are for the benefit of the young trainees or – I hope so – do not put too much burden on companies. When I first said: This is also true of the teaching profession “care and care. ” This is a request from the FPÖ Group. It is also this new teaching profession part of our BZÖ care concept. I think you should Here really young people in the dual training system give them the opportunity to work as a local specialist in this future market of care and care. Because it cannot be our goal that we only legalize foreign professionals and give our native young people too few opportunities in this area. There, I think, we should all work together – even with all sensitivity. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am very glad that a very intense discussion is being held in my home country, Upper Austria. A pilot project is also planned by those responsible. And I think there is this demand that we have been making on the part of the BZÖ for a long time – I have been a Social Minister at the time – very, very serious. With regard to the scepticism that 15-year-olds are not suitable, I think you cannot generalize this, but on the one hand, you can explain this by appropriate aptitude tests, but also by means of training content, by presenting and streamlining the training content, you can certainly do something here. From my point of view, it is more than against that, and I would be very pleased if a pilot project would be launched here in Upper Austria, in order to see the experiences. In Carinthia, a pilot project “Teacher with Matura” has been launched, and now it is expected to be Austria-wide. It also took a few years. I think the idea of “care and care” could also prevail here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Commercial Council Egon Blum once said: "Whoever trusts and proves this to be our youth will not be disappointed by it." I think we should trust our youth in a new teaching profession. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20424	The next speaker is Mr Amon. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20446	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's youth employment package is based on a social partners' agreement. The main points discussed were the points contained in this package. I am able to join my previous speaker, Mrs Haubner, who has already pointed out that thanks to God, the introduction of the Blum-Bonus already in the last legislative period, in order to create this “tournature on the training market” – between quotation marks – in the field of apprentices, to enter into more apprenticeship contracts. This has certainly been a very good and important measure. The fact that we are developing this now is good and is extremely welcome. In fact, there was a point in this package, which I also personally viewed as quite critical. This was this extended possibility of early termination of teaching contracts. I have to contradict Mr Dolinschek, who meant that it is good that there is now a possibility that will clearly regulate this. I would like to object to the fact that there is already a wealth of ways of breaking up teaching contracts in § 15 of the Vocational Training Act. Only a minor number, 39 percent of teaching contracts are now dissolved in the probationary period. Thus, over 60 percent will be dissolved even now, as it were, after the trial period. And that was why we looked at this critically. However, I firmly believe that the social partners have made this decision in good faith that greater flexibility is needed. More teaching contracts will, however, be required to keep this quantitatively high number. However, in order to ensure that we do not experience any negative surprises here – I am also very grateful to the Federal Minister for his comments – we have on the one hand inserted a new § 15b, which provides for a report which the Federal Minister gives every two years. In order to take a close look at this question and to strengthen it, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr President, I would like to ask you to take this request into consideration, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20513	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Amon is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20579	The next speaker is Mr Vilimsky. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20601	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we debate youth employment and the promotion of apprenticeships. I mean, this is a very, very important issue, because the youth has a right to receive a positive future from us, too, with sufficient control instruments, so that it does not get the impression that we would not give our best in order to also provide the best possible opportunities for the youth sector. Today, we have generally experienced that the policy where it would have to control, where the policy would have to put social controls, has not done so: for example, in the field of fuel, where we had the discussion, where, from our point of view, you have done far too little to counter these horrendous fuel prices to appropriate compensation measures. We are experiencing it in the field of food prices, and we are now experiencing it here in the area of apprenticeship promotion, where we are suspected by the Freedom Party, it is too little involved in funding. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, now I do not make you a decent offer, but a decent one: I would like to give you the opportunity to send out a signal of solidarity and also of interconnectedness with the population by means of the automation mechanism of 1. In July of this year, an effective increase of 1.7 percent in policymaking will be broken down and we will redirect this free-standing sum to the field of apprenticeship funding. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! – You, Mrs Laura Rudas, talk to me! You're under 30 years old, I remember. [[Abg. Rudas: 27!]] – 27, excuse me! I don't know how you're doing when you get over 8 000 € in the month of an apprentice who gets 350 € apprentice compensation, with a proud chest and say: Well, I'll get 150 € more from now on, from 1. July! – Whether this is your model of social thinking, where it does not turn the founding fathers of social democracy into graves? This cannot be a coalition pact here, namely to have agreed to an increase in policymaking in such a way that coalitionary compulsion must prevail. We have already submitted the request in 2006. All of them rejected him: Black, orange, green and the SPÖ. Today, in the field of apprenticeship promotion and youth employment, there is once again the opportunity for you to go into yourself and try to think about what social ways of action and social thinking actually mean, namely to do away with yourself and to see that not only through means that you can guide back and forth, but also with signal effect, you try to do something good to the population and put the sign behind the population. At the ÖVP it is so that the youth speaker thought four years ago that three sausages cost €10. That was in 2004. Today, in 2008, it would probably cost €15. I think we are setting false signals with such thinking and it is urgently necessary to pump into the field of youth promotion, apprenticeship promotion, youth employment. I appeal to you, here at least so much about social conscience, to solidarity – a left term! – to live that you are willing to give up on these 1.7 percent in favor of the local apprentices! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20676	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vilimsky is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20771	The next speaker is Mrs Rudas. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20792	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Before we all beat each other on the shoulder or, for example, play the revenges of the righteous, it is right here to welcome the representatives of the Austrian trade union youth who are at the top of the gallery. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] They have carried out their work with this social security paper. I should like to thank the House for your commitment. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I wish everyone would praise me. But I think the representatives will take note of it and bring it to the enterprises. I know that many demands remain open, and rightly so. One requirement of this is, for example, that the boarding costs be taken over. As a political person – my colleague, treasure – I already find that employers should also make their share here and not just use taxpayers' money. That is, I will fight very much for this to be taken into account in the next Social Partnership Paper, because this is already a social partnership issue. But I am glad that there will be support. Ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday was a polytechnic class with me, which has described very vividly what it is like to send 20, 30, 40 application letters, seek a teaching and always get only negative answers. I am saying this because I do not understand the polemics of Mr Vilimsky. I don't think you know what this is about, how young people always get cancelled. That is exactly what has happened in recent years. At last, there is a youth employment package. Now, at last, €1.2 billion is spent on young people, for their training and thus also for Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that it is not the case that all of this would suddenly have changed as from 2003 onwards, because otherwise the apprenticeship situation would have looked different, otherwise we would not have had the highest number of job seekers under Black-Blue/Orange. [[Abg. May. Darmann: That's not true!]] I hope that this is the first step towards a common path of high-quality apprenticeship training, but also a training that does not push young people into any action, but is geared towards their interests, gifts and inclinations. Young people also have a right to make an education they are interested in. This employment package provides for this, and I am therefore pleased that we are all deciding on this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20841	The next item is the speech by Mrs Zwerschitz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20862	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! That's a very good plenum! Before we get the total jubilant collector now, because everything is so great and so great, I would like to remind you briefly of how many people do not have the opportunity to teach, namely all those who do not have an employment ban, all those who are in a measure and have not found a teaching place, because they will probably not find it easier now because of the training guarantee. [[Abg. Rudas: Yes! That’s why it’s called “guarantee! ”]] “Training guarantee” means that, if the teaching is abandoned, they have a teaching place afterwards, but how quickly they will have one after the school, we will first see, because the teaching workshops that we would need to hire all the 28 733 unemployed young people in Austria, these over-company training facilities do not yet exist. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rudas.]] A part of it, but not enough. The annual termination is something we certainly cannot agree with. While it is claimed that the new apprenticeship would bring, it is difficult to prove this, since many things are included in this catalogue of measures and one does not really know what will grasp them then – it will probably have been the possibility of termination. If I have spoken to teachers, these other things have been desired. [[Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti: Also teaching women!]] [[Abg. Mikesch: Teachers!]] – Yes, also teaching women, right. Thank you. – They wanted more quality in their training, more quality also for the apprentices, which would mean that learning success among apprentices is also honoured. That learning time is also provided by teachers because it is honoured; that the teacher himself has a success, that the apprentice has more interest in having a good success, that they would have wished. In addition, they would have liked the time of the vocational school to be a little cheaper, because it makes little sense if someone working in the computer sector, where most companies are trying to spend their budget before the end of the year, had to send the apprentice to a vocational school during the pre-Christmas season, or gardeners just in the spring. We make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] What I would like to add – because of AMS, job placement and training guarantee: There is currently only one youth AMS, namely in Vienna. Unfortunately, the countries still do not have such special facilities. I would like to ask you to work to ensure that the AMS creates other specialised jobs, because I believe it is important that apprentices, young people as well as young people be advised that as many specially trained AMS employees are available to them as possible. What is very important to me at the over-company training centres: It is very important that these training facilities, in which the apprentices who have been terminated whose apprenticeships have been dissolved, are moved in which they find their place of work, not only have a minimum standard, but are really very good training places and not become a catch-up pool for announcements. You'll have to look at that. Unfortunately, although we have many purposes, we do not yet have the precise directives. In this respect, I am very pleased that Mr Amon's request will also be interesting, as the notice of terminations has been made, as has often been said, or as to whether there are companies that take the funding and start training over and over again, but do not carry out the entire training in the final effect. We know that many of the teaching establishments do very good work, but unfortunately not all. By the way, we will see whether the purposes are sacred or not. We want to hope for the young people that this apprentice package will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20959	The amendment tabled by Mrs Zwerschitz is properly tabled, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21010	The next speaker is Mrs Mikesch. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21032	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! My dear! Above all, my predecessor has always spoken of “teachers. ” I think this time is over for a long time. We have teachers today who are very likely to carry out their social task and give young people a chance. I mean, that's really special. Mrs Rudas, in recent years, from 2003 onwards, has been very, very much done. We have made a great turnaround when it came to giving more young people a chance. We have achieved great things with the Blum-Bonus, and this successful path will now continue. There have been very, very many things that entrepreneurs have wanted. For the first time, it is also possible to implement quality-related measures, which are also promoted, additional training for apprentices who have not yet been available in the funding catalogue, as well as training for trainees, which is very important. However, it is very crucial to remain flexible and to respond to and respond to the conditions in the labour market. For the first time, there is the possibility to break up the teaching contract extraordinarily, and there are always great concerns as to how it actually looks. I can provide you with figures from the first quarter of Lower Austria. There are 20,000 existing apprenticeships there, 382 apprenticeships were solved, 31 cases by the teacher, and 96 solutions were provided by the apprentices. It is very important that the apprentices also have the opportunity to go their right way of training. If they have chosen a wrong person, they must have the opportunity to change, regardless of whether from a teaching relationship or in the school sector. I think we will continue with the new apprenticeship package the positive path for apprenticeship training in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21080	Next speaker: Mr Riepl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21101	Mr President. High house! Mr Federal Minister, if I turn to you at the beginning, I apologize, but you have, I think, a very interesting week behind yourself: Two days ago, the Federal Minister celebrated his birthday. 500 works councils and employees have come to his office and have demonstrated there, but not against him, but for him – it has been in this Republic before, I believe, not yet given. And today you have given a speech, Mr Federal Minister, for whom you have received applause from several political groups. I got caught, I also applauded. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's nice sometimes when you're Minister of Labour – isn't it? – I wanted to mention that, especially Minister of Labour. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have this apprenticeship package for decision-making, and on this occasion we must also point out that everything has not been the way it is now. In 2000, we had 3 759 young people without a apprenticeship. In 2006, 6 099 young people were unemployed, i.e. job seekers. Today it's 3,924. It is a development that is positive and that shows that, with a number of measures, something can be changed from policy to policy, that it is possible to reduce youth unemployment and hopefully also to eliminate overall unemployment. We have had a catch-up network – which has already been said several times today – which unfortunately has not given the young people any guarantee until graduation; now we have a training guarantee. So we come from the reception network to the training guarantee. I think that's something we can all be proud of together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have had too little over-company teaching, as I have already said, and now we have the ones with guarantee, sufficient, also financially supportive in the regions. We have had a promotion that has promoted quantity, now we have a promotion that further enhances quality. We have a funding amount, as was already carried out by Mr Mitterlehner, which is based on apprenticeship compensation. But we still have something – a long-standing demand in particular of the trade union youth, but also of ourselves, is a solidarity of employer funding of apprenticeship promotion and apprenticeship training. This was criticism for many years, especially the youth representatives. Now we have implemented a first step towards solidarity between employers with these laws which we are adopting today. So that's going to be reality. In connection with the termination or termination of apprenticeships, I would just like to point out that this was deliberately formulated in such a way. So even the apprentice can, if he has the feeling that he does not have the right apprenticeship, that he learns too little in the company, uses mediation and can strive to improve his situation and also has opportunities to get out of the teaching relationship and to switch to a better apprenticeship. That too should be mentioned. Summary: Ladies and gentlemen, this day, 5th. June 2008, is a good day for our youth. The promised training guarantee will be a reality. We already wish everything good to all those who find a training place in the new system today. And I'm asking: What else can we do better than to take proper measures for young people? – I do not want to leave this question unanswered: Keep going! The next measure is already at the door: the professional matura.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21178	Mrs Haidlmayr will speak next. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21199	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, yes, apprenticeship promotion is now somewhat improved, but I am personally hurt – I do not know if this has been made conscious or unconscious – that the term “people with disabilities” and “impeded apprentices” is not included in this novel to improve the promotion of apprentices. I believe that people with disabilities, in this case apprentices, must also have the right to get to the train in the apprenticeship promotions, the so-called Blum bonus. This also does not include this improvement either. You can now tell me that there are other promotion packages for disabled students anyway, which is partly true, but this is too little. They know that the training of people with disabilities, in particular those with mental disabilities, simply means a greater need for teachers on the one hand and employees on the other, so that this group of people with disabilities can be really well and efficiently integrated into the work process. It takes more time and more funding for that. These apprentices are still not included in the Blum-Bonus and in this new apprenticeship promotion, and I find this very personal ................................................................................................................................ I hope that you will very soon also include people with disabilities in these funding directives and not only grant grants to non-impeded apprentices. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would now like to comment on the request by Mr Hofer on the introduction of a nursing education. Mr Hofer, I have to tell you quite honestly – and I have already said this in committee – that I do not think so, because I believe that it is an exaggeration for a 15-year-old to get into the teaching of a care profession at this age. For good reason, Mr. Hofer, you have to have a certain age – I think you have to be 17 or 18 years old – in order to become a nurse, because it is not only physically, but also psychologically a very, very strenuous activity when you work in this field of work. And the same applies also to the field of assistance, care and care for disabled and old people. You can't imagine a 15-year-old choosing this training at this age – otherwise the drop-out quota would certainly be very high. In addition, in Austria we have a lot of teaching professions in this field, from the caregivers to the elderly, to the disabled, so that I think it would be more useful to be able to do some of these trainings, which are already available now, as a combination training and to combine certain trainings. This means that someone who is working as a caregiver today at the same time has the opportunity to continue school in a module, for example, as a disabled person, and does not have to start from the beginning. I think that a boosting of existing training would be more useful than reintroducing a new training, which is also possible for 15-year-olds. 15-year-olds do not yet have the personal requirements to fulfil this difficult professional task. They must not yet be allowed to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21247	The next item is Mrs Grander. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21269	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As part of my brief remarks, I go into care and care as a teaching profession. It is always addressed to dual training. I would like to say that we already have dual training in nursing. We have them at the caregivers, where 800 hours of theory and 800 hours of practice are used, and 1 percent of the practice is directed by teachers in nursing care. There is also a degree course, where 2,000 hours of theory and 2 480 hours of practice are applied, of which 2 per cent are guided practice, as with the care workers. Thus, dual training is provided in principle in this area. At the age of entry – Mrs. Haidlmayr has already spoken about this –: We had once had a health care law, where entry at the age of 15 was possible, a general education year, after which the three years of work. What was the final effect? – Under the age of 17 you must not go to the hospital bed, this must secure the school. This means that these people spend their training in all other areas and come Only after that in effective training. For this reason, the entry age has been increased to 17 years. I myself have experienced as a teacher in nursing care, when I worked for ten years, that young people leave the profession after the first internship, because their favorite patient dies or because there are situations in their own family caused by illness. So I think it makes sense to start at the age of 17. There is even the consideration whether this is perhaps even raised because of the points cited. You really have to look closely, because the training is now very much in the extramural area, at the nursing homes. School stations are set up to have real teaching situations or to be able to teach them. I'd have to talk about doing this for a longer time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21311	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is the last speaker in this debate. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21332	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The fact that young people are to be given the best chance of entering adult life is, I believe, clear across all party borders; we have shown this impressively today. I am convinced that, with this law, which we decide today, we are coming a great step closer to this issue, although there are certainly still points open, I do not want to mention that, but I think that the training guarantee and the quality offensive in the apprenticeship promotion are two very important elements to give young people good starting opportunities in their adult life. For quality promotion a short thought: I think it is very, very important that you take the trainers in prayer and influence them in this direction too, because this is simply an important step for young people in their training facilities. In this context, I would like to appeal to the Minister or the Secretary of State, because I think that we must pay particular attention to the need to ensure that project promoters, young people who are weak in learning, or even weaker young people, can also benefit from the quality promotion bonus. I think that we must pay particular attention to the criteria that are being developed, that these promoters do not train the weak young people, but that they cannot use quality promotion. I believe that this is a very important point so that these young people too can be supported as much as possible. In addition to promoting quality, I am of course also very happy about the over-company training, because I think it is very important that this over-company training is equated with the regular, dual-company training. This very important step guarantees that there will not be any apprentices in two classes. I would like to appeal, however, that the enterprises should not, of course, avoid responsibility, because training in the enterprises must, of course, remain the most important form of dual teaching. Over-company training is intended to benefit, above all, the weaker young people as well as the loss of education. And since, I think, it is a pleasure that for these young people the compensation has also been increased, namely, in the first and second years of education to 240 € and in the third year of teaching to 555 €. This is a very, very important step for the young people concerned. On the whole, I am very satisfied and very confident that this new law will bear fruit, positive fruit, and that it will be particularly important for young people who are training.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21375	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I ask all Members to take a seat, because we are now voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the vocational training law, the labour market service law, the Youth Training Security Act and other laws, into 571 of the supplements. Since the present draft law contains a constitutional provision, I first put it in the sense of § 82 para. Paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure establishes the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Deputies Mag. Honey, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional proposal. There is also an amendment tabled by Mr Kickl, colleagues. Finally, there is a desire for separate vote by the honourable Members. My colleague, Mr Kickl, will be speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I will therefore be able to vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in accordance with the system of the law on the supplementary or amending proposals referred to above, or on the request for separate votes, as well as on the remaining parts of the draft committee report. We shall first proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1 Z 4, 5 and 7 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Deputies Mag. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal concerning Article 1 Z 10. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Articles 2 Z 5 and 4 Z 16 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. There is also an amendment tabled by Mr Kickl, colleagues, which refers to Article 5 Z 3 of the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign for their approval. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. I shall immediately vote on Article 5 Z 3 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are in favour of it. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 6 Z 4 and Articles 8 Z 6 and 7 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. I shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 8 Z 11 as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever stands for it, I ask him for a sign of confirmation. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I call on those Members of the House who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Courts, colleagues and renaissance of the dual training system. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen on the activities of the Funding Committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen on free boarding and free travel for all apprentices. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Werner Amon and Mr Renate Csörgits, colleagues on the 2008 Youth Employment Package. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 77.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vilimsky, colleagues, on the withdrawal of the automatic increase in political salaries in favour of the financing of apprenticeship training. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Law on the Employment of Children and Youths, including the title and receipt in 576 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree with this draft law at third reading too, in order to give a sign in this regard. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 572 of the supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. [[18:08:01]] 10. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (524, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Labour Market Policy Financing Act (573 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 714/A by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on a Federal Act establishing the Labour Market Policy Financing Act (AMPFG), BGBl. No. 315/1994, amended (574 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21630	We now come to the points 10 and 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speaker was Mr. Themessl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21660	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It should actually be a day of joy for the Federal Minister today, because today and tomorrow Starts the “great wave of discharge” over Austria. This now begins with the reduction or partial removal of unemployment insurance contributions and then continues tomorrow with the “great discharge package” in the course of the increase of the pendulum fee and of the kilometre fee. You know, if a government doesn't work, there's wind silence, and wind still doesn't produce any waves. And that's exactly how it falls. Your discharge packages from: very, very modest! In order to reduce unemployment insurance contributions, a few words: First, it is completely unfair and unfair because unemployment insurance is paid by the employer and by the employee by 3 percent. They now go here and partly relieve the self-employed workers. Up to an income of €1 350 is reduced by 1 per cent – from 3 per cent to 2 per cent – and an income of €1 100 to €1 200 is reduced from 3 per cent to 1 per cent, and the unemployment insurance contribution is cancelled under €1 100. You know exactly that a lot of small businesses and individual companies also fall into this income class. They are not at all affected by this tax relief, as you call it! And what you do not say is that the reduction of these unemployment insurance contributions leads to an increase in the tax base. That is, even in this gift or in this discharge that you want to present to the people, your Minister of Finance is already cutting back. Just one example: If someone earns between €1200 and €1 350 per month today and then reduces unemployment insurance contributions by 1 per cent, then the increased tax that he has to pay net amounts between €9 and €10 per month. – After “gratulier”, Mr. Federal Minister! This is a “super enrichment” for all those who are in this income class and will “surely contribute to the recovery of the middle class in the future and will be significantly involved in the tax revenue of this Republic. To do this, you can only “gratulate ” you! You know, this is going through like a red thread – I told you this this morning: First, you will be heavily disillusioned, and then, when the displeasure in the population and the media pressure becomes so strong that you can no longer change, then give back a little bit of circa. In your 2006 budget, you have budgeted revenues from unemployment insurance contributions of €4.6 billion, and in the same breath you budget expenditure in the order of €3.4 billion. That means I have to blame you for taking €1.2 billion away from the Austrians, and now you give them because of this tax relief you introduce here... – Yes, I know how you argue. [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein]] But for that, there's another budget item for what you mean. They take away more than € 1 billion from the Austrians and now give them back about 300 million due to this tax relief, so about a quarter of that you take out. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] Yes, Mr. Federal Minister, I can only "gratulate" you on this. And tomorrow we will continue with the Pendler Pauschale – we have already “gratulated” you today: This too is a alms that you give back to the population, and actually a witness of poverty for the work of this government. But because we are already talking about labour market policy, I have another concern – and you can all of that, because it does not cost any money: In recent years, we have always had so-called competitive clauses in the service contracts. This was partly useful in the past and was also handled in professional professions, especially in technical areas and in management, so that people do not take insider knowledge from the companies and then immediately switch to competition. In recent years, the following has occurred: that almost all service contracts contain so-called competition clauses. We would ask you to change this, and I therefore submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21760	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Themessl is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21814	The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21835	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! In contrast to my previous speaker, I particularly welcome this presentation as an employee representative. It helps a million employees with around €300 million. Mr. Themessl, if you calculate this – you are a gifted computer in this field – then you will notice that this is on average 300 € per employee per year. This is therefore an important measure in the field of anti-inflation, the rate of inflation. One should really mention this positively, and I do not understand at all why you are opposed to this measure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steibl: If he doesn't understand!]] A very important point is the reduction of the unemployment insurance contribution – which is also our access: Reduce fees, reduce contributions, and not return money here in a kind of negative tax, but simply provide people with more. And this measure feels the people, the workers in the wallets, and that is exactly what makes sense and purpose of this measure. Up to €33 more a month, that's about 500 s, and that's a inflation bill, which is an important step in the fight against inflation. It is used here a part of the money from the tax reform package – as I said, this €300 million – and I particularly welcome it. It is quite, very important for the lower levels of income that this measure is put in place – an important step that the Federal Government has taken and which we as Members of the government, but also members of the opposition, decide. An important measure, and thus a good day for many workers in times of high inflation and high inflation! I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21881	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21902	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! It has already been said: A million people will receive a monthly improvement in their income by this decision we are now making. For those who earn less than €1 100 per month, it is a 3-percent net wage increase in the middle of the year. I think that is something that should not be pushed aside and, in view of the fact that it is not allowed to stand in the room, that it is nothing and that it is too little, as has just been said by the speaker of the Liberal Group. Mr Wöginger said it was an important step. I agree. This net wage increase of 3 per cent, Mr Wöginger, is, of course, the primary effect of the whole history, and I would like to point out that we must, of course, jointly ensure that it does not result from secondary effects which may be detrimental to those affected. What do I mean by that? We have a lot of young people who are in training, especially students who, of course, deserve something to finance their studies. And if they do, they must be careful that they do not reach the income limit of €9 000 for family aid within a year. And if the people concerned do not pay attention if, through their contract of service, they would get close to €9 000 this year, then it may happen that they may be €100, 150 or 200 over the €9 000 – and then the fall you, I believe, do not want and we do not want them to pay back the family aid for the whole year. And then they would probably come right to us and say: Say, didn't you think about that – or was that even intended? Of course it is not intended! That is why we invite our coalition partner to check with us together in the next few days and weeks, whether at the same time the income limit, this amount of €9 000, should be increased accordingly, because then the problem would not be hit. For example, you can solve this problem as easily as you like. I wanted to point out this because it is important to me that we do not unconsciously build up traps that may then catch somewhere. The people concerned don't think about it – they can't be hurt at all – but we have the obligation to think about it! I have already talked with Mr Amon, with Mr Neugebauer, with Mr Stumbling and with Mr Mitterlehner about this. We do not have to do it today, we have time, but it is about devoting time and energy to this issue, and that is why we ask you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21943	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21975	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – Mrs Steibl, you may speak later. [[Abg. Steibl: Was that an unpleasant question?]] – Actually, I almost just wanted to say positive things now. Then Mr Riepl comes to the speaker's desk and here brings up a point that we have already discussed in other ways in committee deliberations, namely the question of how it looks with the transitions that this is not really fine. And this is also a form of transition, which was obviously not intended. – So I have to say honestly, it shocks me a little! I am right about Mr Riepl, but it is only now that the government parties take note that there could be problems – it was already in the newspapers to read that there could be a problem in the transitions in the tax border and in this case because of the free border – that there is already a little bit of amazement. I would have expected the presentation to come into the plenary in a slightly better form, but nevertheless, Mr Amon: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] Yes, we agree! But a measure was defined as an objective to combat inflation. I say to you, Mr Amon: It is a modest contribution to this, but it is a contribution! However, I see the real problem of where the other groups are, no matter if I define them as Mr Themessl, whom I would not agree with, because self-employed, Mr Themessl, do not pay unemployment insurance contributions. You can now, but it is not that they are already the payers of unemployment insurance contributions. And self-employed people now pay higher social contributions essentially – as I think a few more would occur. To address the “machinen question”: No matter whether there is an employer's and an employee's contribution, both contributions are deductions from the wage sum negotiated by the employer with the employee or the employee. Both parts! - But be it. I am more annoyed – there can be quite a different opinion – which other groups could be involved, that one obviously forgets particularly vulnerable groups, although they appear in the text of this application concerning unemployment insurance law. We have therefore also submitted to the Committee proposals concerning the valorization of unemployment benefit, which concerns a higher net replacement rate, not a radically higher net replacement rate. The unemployed – you know that, all the results of research prove this – are the most affected group in Austria. And they don't even get a cent from this federal government, even from the SPÖ. No more cents for people actually affected by poverty. That seems to be the concept of this federal government when it comes to unemployed people! When it comes to employees – well, we agree with you –: They're supposed to be relieved. Whether the contribution is sufficient is very questionable. And even more questionable is whether the respective limits or stages provided for by the law are already sufficiently covered by this draft together with other income limits, as it has been called by Mr Riepl. I would have liked something more – not only on this question.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22026	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22047	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Unemployment insurance contributions for low income beneficiaries are now reduced, which is an inflation measure. It is so to speak, through this measure, that those people who do not pay taxes that earn too little will therefore remain net a bit more in the wallet. This now affects a monthly contribution basis of €1 100 virtually 0 percent, then it increases from €1 100 to €1200 at 1 percent and in turn to €1 350 contribution basis at 2 percent. Well, I support this measure. She's good too, but we should be careful not to turn this spiral down. The most important thing is still full employment and work, which also pays off and which is worth it. That is the most important thing in my opinion. And the best recipe is simply well paid work to also strengthen consumption and thereby increase purchasing power. That's the best price. Since Mr Themessl meant that there was nothing in there for the service provider, I say: Of course, the service provider pays his service contribution to unemployment insurance, but it is about increasing the net income of employees. It's easy to support. One has nothing to do with the other. It is the same if I give economic support to the entrepreneur; the employee has only indirectly something that might strengthen the job, but otherwise nothing. With regard to the competition clause introduced by Mr Themessl, I can only fully support it, because I believe that a competitive clause can only be issued in the highly qualified management area. In all other areas, it simply has to be abolished, because it contradicts the principle that, for example, a seller in a department store may not then switch to another department store because he sells about the same goods. This is no longer contemporary, which is basically forbidden.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22088	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22109	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the reduction in unemployment insurance contributions will benefit about one million workers from July onwards. It is important and necessary that we adopt this measure. I would just like to mention that this measure still affects very many women for low incomes. Especially women, self-employed, still earn only 60 percent of male income. I am also hopeful that the social partners will now continue to work in this direction, that women will receive the same salary as men, especially in the case of equal work. The fact that there are, of course, differences between part-time work and full-time work is clear, but that is exactly what you need to work on. I hope that the women's minister, who is constantly addressing this, will now take action, in particular with the relevant trade unions, because they can also negotiate social partnership, that women's salaries are increasing all the more, especially in the "typical" areas. But now something positive: There is once again a common language in the Committee's knowledge, unless the opinion has changed. We will decide this together – and that alone is a good signal.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22145	Mrs Marek, Secretary of State, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22167	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have a few comments to make on your part. Mr Themessl, you have forgotten in your account: You have said that we have de facto over €1 billion in surplus from what we take from unemployment insurance and what we have in expenditure. They have probably forgotten the active labour market policy, which is exactly this difference. This is precisely what is very important for the reintegration of people seeking work and the important work that the AMS is doing here with training measures, with reintegration measures on the labour market. So I'm allowed to correct your bill a little. Of course, it's easy to say that everything is always far too little. But I am surprised that precisely the liberals who are always trying to demonstrate to the outside of the public and their commitment to the workers are obviously unable to go along with this point. I think that up to an average of €300 for a million workers is not nothing, but that is something that is quite worth seeing. And it is a pity that the liberals are voting against this, although they obviously try to present a different picture to the outside. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say something to Mr Riepl, on the subject he has brought in – Mr Oellinger, too, as regards social benefits: We have, of course, looked at this, ladies and gentlemen. There is a wealth of social benefits, as you know, all of them have different income limits, both at federal and national level. It is precisely the question whether it is also properly balanced to search through all these, namely each of these social benefits. We simply believe that it is more sensible to decide on this measure, as we have put it here, because the benefits can also be seen and the question of whether the effort of this wealth of different regulations at federal and national level would really justify the benefits. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to express my thanks to the employers' side, because this is not always a matter of course. This is an exclusive exemption from contributions on the part of employees; it should be stressed that there were great conversations, where agreement could be reached very quickly and the employer side said that it is all right for the reduction to go hand in hand. To sum up, I think, this is a truly recognizable package, where we are burdening workers particularly in the low-paid sector – Ridi Steiblhat said, very many women are particularly affected – but again a lot more, especially in view of the very difficult price situation we currently have in Austria. That's how we move quickly – the package is already starting with 1. July in force – another step towards discharge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22221	Mr Schopf is the next speaker. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22242	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It's been said a lot. Our group has, of course, declared that we will vote in favour. Finally, it was also an initiative of the Socialist Group. It was mentioned that at least one million colleagues are affected. These groups are especially those of colleagues who earn very little, they are colleagues with an income of up to €1 350 per month, which will be in the future – in concrete terms from 1. July this year – will have a discharge. The total amount of discharge – that has already been said – is at least € 300 million. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important to me to point out that discharge is of particular importance to this group of persons, because this group of persons with relatively low incomes has been most affected and burdened by the current price increases. Unfortunately, a number of expenditure on daily needs have increased significantly: energy costs, housing costs, fuel prices. Mr Oellinger, that is why this initiative has been put in place. Of course, it may be more and more, it will not have been the last initiative, but I think it was the right approach to relieve, above all, those colleagues who do not deserve much, by some percentage points, up to 3 percentage points. If you pay an invoice here, you can see that, unfortunately, women are particularly affected by the fact that they have a monthly income of €1,050 gross. There are hundreds of thousands who are unfortunately still in this area of income, so these persons have an annual income of €14 700. If you expect the loss of the unemployment insurance contribution, this means a relief of €440 a year for the persons concerned. I think that's a real step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22283	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22304	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! - She's serious, Josef Cap! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: The situation is hopeless!]] You know, the income shears between the top and the bottom have broken down in recent years, which is known. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's our opinion!]] In this respect, this step, which is set here, is a step in the right direction, not a question. First point. Second point – listen carefully! –: Net real wage loss. Let us take a look at the net real wage development in recent years: thin, dry, half a percentage point on average over the last five or six years. Let's see the year 2008! What's it look like? – Net real wage losses, as far as the eye is concerned. They are particularly high on lower incomes. This, in turn, is a real step in the right direction, but there are, of course, net real wage losses, not least thanks to the high inflation rate that we have experienced in recent months. This raises the question of why the benefits granted here stop at €1 350 and not, so to speak, in favour of the tax reform, also give rise to higher incomes. Mrs. State Secretary, you are right, it is not nothing here that will be given to the income stakeholders up to €1 350. In total, it is €300 million for a million people. But let us look at how this government acts in terms of lower incomes, how it acts in terms of the higher incomes, on the highest incomes or in terms of the richest. Let's take a look at it! We have had a discussion about the private foundations in recent days. One of the key points to which it was here, which was hotly fought and which was not least denied thanks to initiatives of the Greens, was that, in concrete case, 3 316 pens, the already paid gift funding tax should be refunded in 20 years stages. Total... [[Abg. Tamandl: Counted!]] Yes, what does “count” mean on corporate tax to be paid, Mrs. Tamandl? What does that mean? – That I save my money means that. I don't need to explain this to you as a tax advisor. But the point is: € 400 million for 3 316 pens compared to € 300 million for one million employees. There is probably something wrong with the distribution relationships! There's something wrong. The next point is that the explanatory remarks refer to the fact that this measure initiates an effective recovery of economic demand and thus contributes to supporting the economic situation. – It would be nice, but I can’t really believe it. If you want to take economic support measures, you have to get a little deeper into the bag. It would be justifiable for anyone who has read today's newspapers knows that the OECD has reversed its forecast for 2009, including for Austria. That is to say, the government would be well advised to consider what to do about this loss of economic activity and not to act like the government in 2001, which, as the economy went down, has presented the biggest savings package of all time. But to believe that you can reach economic support with €300 million, that's ridiculous! Let's have a look at the past few years! What have the entire economic recovery packages that the government has made? – If I consider that only for the increase in the investment premium more than twice as much as for this one million of the lowest income recipients has been spent. And it has nothing to do – except take-away effects. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a problem which is a real problem with this regulation. This is a gradual increase in the burden of unemployment insurance contributions; there are no good effects at the level of distribution policy. I do not want to explain this theoretically to you, but rather to give you an example. Let's get an employee in the food trade, a cashier! She works 20 hours, has a gross monthly income of 1,090 €. You will remain net today 893 €. She wants to, because she doesn't get the money to increase her working time to 24 hours. That would mean that she would get an income of 1 350 € gross, so net 1 036 €. The increase in income net would be 143 €. How does this look new in the model now? In the new model, the €1 090 925 would mean net. That would be 32,7 € more than in the currently prevailing model. At 1 350 € nothing changes, as it remains at 1 036 €. - But! In the new model, the cashier stays in the food trade of her total increase now no longer 143 €, but only more than 110 €. This means that the increase is reduced by 23 percent due to the load at the level limit. That is, of her salary increase, which she has out of the more employment, at the end of the day, she remains 23 percent less money than according to the old model due to the higher border burden at the stage. This is a real problem, and I believe that this problem must be solved in the course of the next tax reform, because: Let's calculate the tax burden on the border! The tax burden on this cashier in the food trade is 57.44 percent. If you, ladies and gentlemen, or you, Mrs State Secretary, have a salary increase, then you do not have a limit burden of 57.44 percent, but one of 50 percent. - Do you think that's fair? I think there's a need for action here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22369	The last speaker in this debate is Mrs Magistrate. Honey. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22391	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take the opportunity to point out a point I have already mentioned in the Committee. In principle, we welcome this scheme, but it is about the exemption from the unemployment insurance contribution not for income below €1 100, but only for income between €349 and €1 100. People who earn less than €349 do not benefit from this scheme because they are excluded from the insurance from the outset. That's what we do not accept. We have an increase in the number of minor employees each year – and these are not just pensioners – and all other employee groups are interested in taking advantage of unemployment insurance benefits. It is high time that we, with our social security system, conform to the changed realities in the labour market, that we make adjustments. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22448	Mrs Mag. Treasured motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22494	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Labour Market Policy Financing Act, together with the title and receipt in 524 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Themessl, colleagues and colleagues on competition clauses in employment contracts. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen, regarding the inclusion of minor employees in unemployment insurance. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the motion for a resolution, to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 574 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[18:45:37]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 337/A by Mr Mag. Birgit Schatz, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law on the amount of minimum wage in existence (Minimum Wage Act) (575 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22601	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First speaker is Mrs Mag. Honey. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22631	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens are finally demanding a minimum wage, which is legally anchored and thus benefits all workers. We demand €7.25 per hour, which in the case of full-time employment corresponds to approximately €1,000 net per month, and we want an automatic valorization in order not to make the adjustments dependent on the respective political situation. Ladies and gentlemen, I really wonder: How can you be against this claim? How do you justify that someone in Austria continues to work from early to late every day – not every day, but five to six days a week – and deserves so little that he is poor? I know that trade unionists in SPÖ do not want to talk about statutory wage schemes. They are afraid that a minimum statutory wage, that legal poverty reduction will lose its influence. [[Abg. Riepl: A trade unionist is never afraid!]] I can only join the remarks of Mr Dolinschek in the committee that said... – Just when it is so far that the trade union is afraid of such a regulation, I do not know how the trade union as a whole is ordered. [[Abg. Riepl: There's no such thing as a trade unionist's fear all over the world!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'll be scared and scared if you're not with us. What are you talking about? Are you concerned about influence, power, or about the people who would urgently need our common support? But, Mr Riepl, I am so disappointed by you and your argumentation in committee, because you do not think it necessary to take this important step. [[Abg. Riepl: That's the way it is!]] [[Abg. Riepl: I think we'll talk about it again among us two!]] – Yes, I would like to, but we have been talking about it for half a year or more – Mr Oellinger, I think, for years now – and you are not there. It's just about your social partnership negotiation ceremony, and it can't be changed about a small nuance. It has to stay the way it is. - I'm disappointed! However, ladies and gentlemen, the argument made by Minister Bartenstein, who unfortunately is no longer here, and by Mr Mitterlehner, who is now no longer in the Chamber, was really depressing. Without a spark of shame – not ‘charme’ in the sense of ‘Esprit’, but ‘sham’ – both have said quite clearly and clearly that they do not believe that full-time employment in Austria must be ‘poverty’, as Midterlehne expressed it. What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? The ÖVP believes that full-time work, day-to-day work from early to late, of course according to the working time regulations, does not have to be paid so much that one has an income that protects one from poverty. And what does poverty mean? Don't worry, I don't come to you with statistics, but: Poverty means that one cannot afford to live. The ÖVP is thus of the opinion that it is justified to work every day, but of this income cannot afford to live the most necessary – and that of a former Christian-social party! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They ignore a claim that is already defined in the Bible: that full - time work must be existential. For example, they negate one of the fathers of liberalism, Adam Smith, who demands exactly the same. Ignore as a European Party These are the demands of the ILO, the International Labour Organization, or the European Parliament. We Greens demand decreed: Full-time work must pay enough to protect against poverty! This requires a legal minimum wage, 1 000 € net at full time. That would bring something – perhaps not here in the hall, we know our income, but yet those people who have to decide whether they can still afford vegetables after five days of noodles the next day. I have to put it so plausibly, because: What are we talking about here? We are not talking here about a life of prosperity or even a real social security, but we are talking about allowing a life on the ridge. It's about the protection from the chicken. – Please think about this once again if you reject our request!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22724	The next speaker is Mr Haberzettl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22746	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! You see me kneeling at fear, fear of my future, at the speaker's desk. Wages and salaries, ladies and gentlemen, are negotiated in Austria by the social partners for all employees. I think that's good and should stay that way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Honey.]] We are also in favour, Mrs Schatz, of the fact that people have a secure minimum income, but I can tell you from my own experience: Income is not only determined by wage negotiations, but also by framework law plays an essential role. I would really refuse to see the legislator constantly intervene in the framework law in the field of labour law. [[Abg. Smoke-Kallat: “Save”!]] - Excuse me, keep it. Mrs. Darling! We are opposed to the fact that it depends on the will and appreciation of the respective government, whether these minimum incomes are raised annually or not. [[Abg. May. Honey: Automatic valorization!]] There is also something that goes beyond the inflation rate, Mrs Colleague, and that should also be taken into account. And where is the share of productivity then? Ladies and gentlemen! We have another problem: In fact, we are moving towards the union's wage policy the problems we have in tax legislation and in other areas. This is not fair and not soluble by minimum income! For employees, we have ensured the development and co-ordination of their incomes by the fact that trade unions in particular are implementing this wage policy and are also involved in the design of labour law and framework legislation. A further development of collective agreements, which currently interest both employers and trade unions, has not been guaranteed at all, but at least has become much more difficult. What are the interests of employers, then leave to employees wage developments and productivity shares when a minimum statutory wage, as you say, ensures that the future is achieved? [[Abg. Elder: Weak arguments!]] The introduction of minimum statutory wages therefore seems to us to be no guarantee of an automatic increase in lowest incomes and an automatic guarantee of low prosperity if you want to, and therefore we will continue to reject it.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22819	The next speaker was Mr Themessl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22842	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Before: We will give our consent to the Greens' request, for the relatively simple reason that this is a better creation of the current situation. There is the fact that there are collective agreements in certain professional groups which are similar in some cases to the minimum security that the government addresses. It would then be an incentive to go to work. If I stay at home and get a lot of money – why should I go to work? But basically, if one wants to secure the purchasing power in Austria in a sustainable way and the population really wants to do something good, this proposal goes too little. There is a need for accompanying measures which are not insignificant. You must not forget: Today, 70 percent of all self-employed people are employed in so-called small and medium-sized enterprises, and in 2006 60 percent of these small and medium-sized enterprises no longer made profits. That is to say, this federal government has managed to slowly lead and eradicate the middle class to the minimum of existence. It is therefore necessary to take accompanying measures, i.e. massive additional wage reductions, so that the minimum wage requirement does not also raise the cost of the entrepreneur accordingly. That must not happen, I would like to warn you. If these accompanying measures are eventually implemented by this government, massive additional wage reductions will be achieved, where, on the European average, we are quite lonely, ensuring that in the future, small and medium-sized enterprises will also be viable and thus the foundation for keeping the employment rate stable in Austria, then we are in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22873	Mrs Marek, Secretary of State, spoke from the government bank. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22894	Ladies and gentlemen! I should just like to point out that we agreed on a minimum wage of € 1,000 in the government programme. Very well in the discussion, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, the goal for us is that every employee and every employee in Austria should receive 1 000 € for a full-time job. I would like to follow Mr Haberzettl's statement, which said that we have the proven system of the collective treaty partnership, which can simply respond to industry specifics in a flexible way. I should also like to point out that there has been a social partners agreement since 2. On July 1, 2007, where there is an understanding that there are minimum wages of less than €1,000 in the individual sectors, one is working on the €1,000 in stages. There are also very precise objectives and timings. In order to monitor this foundation, ladies and gentlemen, a social partnership committee has been set up with the support of the Economic Research Institute, which is carefully reviewing this. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we expect these agreements to be implemented. We also believe that €1,000 is the minimum that every person in Austria should earn in full time, but we think that we should not leave the proven way of collective agreements, but continue to go. I assume it's works well, and I think that's the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22930	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Dolinschek. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22952	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I only hear the word “social partners” today. No matter on which topic, it always means: Have the social partners already discussed this? Didn't they advise? – In principle, I would like to say the following: Wages and salaries, Mr Haberzettl, are negotiated and defined by the social partners in Austria. I am also in favour of this not being done here in Parliament, but at a different level. But if you have to call the social partners on account of every embarrassment, because no one here dares to make a decision, I have to say: The legislation takes place here in this House. The social partners are to deliver their opinions on this, and that is what it has done. Okay. - That's one thing. On the other hand, Mrs State Secretary, you have now made a great effort to achieve the minimum wage of €1 000. This is gross, by the way, Mrs Colleague; net is no more than €818. And the difference from €818 to €747 Minimum security is relatively short. Everyone has to think about whether he's taking on a job at all. I am full of you, I will also support your request, because it goes beyond the government programme. [[towards Greens]] At least it's around €7 per hour, and at 40 hours a week, the monthly €1 232 gross and about €980 net. That's much more. We demand €1 300, which is legitimate, but we will definitely support your request because it simply demands more than the government programme is provided for. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats and the so-called Economic Party, the Austrian People's Party! One thing has to be said quite clearly: Work just has to pay off! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And full-time employment must not result in a person being at risk of poverty. – That must be our goal here in this House! That's what we've got to work on! It must not be so that despite full - time work, people are at risk of poverty!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23005	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to take a seat so that we can come to the vote. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 575 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. [[19:01:03]] 13. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (539, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the EEA Psychologists Act (EEA-PG-Novelle 2008) (594 d.b.) 14. Point Report by the Health Committee on the Government Template (540 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the EEA Psychotherapy Act (EEA-PthG-Novelle 2008) (595 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23069	We now come to points 13 and 14 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. The first speaker was Mr Dr. Rasinger. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23099	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! We are now talking about a more bulky sounding matter: EEA Psychologists Act and EEA Psychotherapy Act and Recognitions Vice versa in Qualifications to be provided. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would like to use this opportunity here today to let myself out a little on the psyche as a doctor. In Austria, we have a phenomenon that exists throughout Europe: The number of mental diseases is increasing. I'm now 25 years old house doctor and I have to say: It has never been so much to do! When you listen closer, you see how many people are actually depressed, how many people have anxiety disorders and how many people fail to cope with their lives. I've been given numbers for this: 10 percent of the visitors to a family medical practice have an acute depression, about a third have a depression in life, and 70 percent of them have several periods of depression. That's really huge! And that is why it is important that the health policy comes away from the device centre and from the organ centre to a more comprehensive image of the human being, where also the psyche takes note. It must be an integral part of treatment. I am very glad that Austria is very good around the world. We could stand there even better, because we are at least the land of Sigmund Freud. When I consider that a sick psyche is already the third most common cause of incapacity for work, I can imagine what this means for our health care. There are always three points that bring people to the tip: Firstly, there are vocational problems; secondly, they are private problems; thirdly, they are financial problems. And if all three come together, it will be particularly close to the human being. That is, a healthy psyche has a lot to do with social policy. And there we politicians are twice required because we make the framework policy for society whether people in society can live happily or not. But we also have to ask ourselves: What can we do, so to speak, by repairing people with their lives better? Therefore, I am really glad that we are also gradually changing the system – I say now as a doctor – and that psychology and psychotherapy are getting more into the healthcare system because it ultimately helps a lot of people to cope better with their lives. I experience this every day in my ordination. I think that's an incentive for all of us to do more so that people are happy and not only may have a good cholesterol value.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23157	Mrs Oberhauser's next speech. 2 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23179	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Erwin Rasinger has said that the task of the politician is to make people happy. We are here making this law at least happy psychologists and psychotherapists because we allow them to carry out their activities more easily in the European environment and also in third countries. At the same time, we create control possibilities to see what the training standards are, so that psychologists and psychotherapists can work with mentally ill people here in Austria. All in all, I believe it was possible – at least in this case – to satisfy two groups of people, namely psychologists and psychotherapists, and that is why we will agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23206	The next item is the speech by Mr Grünewald. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23227	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Everyone is currently talking about the cash recovery package, some of the health reform. Why can't we also talk about psychologists and psychotherapists? Certain contexts are recognizable, or you can make them. But interesting is: This is about the implementation of EU directives, which must be sufficiently done, and they concern a uniformity in professional qualifications, i.e. in training, the freedom of establishment and access to work also regulate their own family if one is to move. That's good. Also a health reform or a cash recovery package would have done well if you had experienced skills, transparency and uniformity somewhere here, but there are a few things missing. Perhaps Supervision and therapy can also be helpful in the area of law we are now talking about. But let us look at the reality that Mr Rasinger has done! – Of course, the proportion of mental diseases is rising. The checkout spends five times as much on psychopharmaceutical as on psychotherapy. Whether the psychologists and psychotherapists become happy is another question if they are to be not paid if there is no cash agreement for psychotherapy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] – No, there is a lot to do! Hospitals must employ psychologists and psychotherapists in order to be able to offer supervision for the staff working there and also help patients. Let's see how far this has been implemented! - Unfortunately! They take the cheapest because they can't afford to be expensive. Whether a hospital has 1,000 beds or 100 beds, there are equal numbers of psychotherapists and the same number of psychologists there – usually only one. So if you want to reform the health system and clean up the cash registers, then there must be money for it, because otherwise every law is a tool. And luck as a maculature is actually not a quality feature I would strive for.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23279	The next item is Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23300	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, a very important law: the implementation of an EEA Directive! My previous speaker has already said: We take a lot of money into our hands for psychopharmaceuticals. But, Dr. Grünewald, it's getting all cheaper with the generics now. With the Aut-idem rule, we'll save ourselves so much money now, then maybe we can also afford psychotherapy, maybe then take over the health insurances. They're being rehabilitated now. To Mr Rasinger: I have to say I agree with him in everything. Mr Rasinger knows what he is talking about. He's acquired a lot of reputation. For example, the honourable Member Graf is quite satisfied with you as a doctor, and he lets you judge from the stage: He agrees with you in full. [[Demonstrative applause by Dr. Stummvoll and Dr. Graf.]] But what it is about now in this law is that we have a uniform, flexible system for the recognition of the professional qualifications of psychologists and psychotherapists. The whole is based on reciprocity, as Mrs Bundesminister has already stressed in the Committee. That is why we will, of course, agree. However, we already hope that there will not be a levelling down here, but that the high Austrian standards will also be maintained here and that those who come from other countries – not from EU countries, but from third countries that are to be equated – will also meet the high training standards.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23339	Mrs Haubner's next speech. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23361	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I can make it short and brittle: The BZÖ will also be the subject of this law. The Commission has decided It is a matter in which there is a great consensus, which is not the case with all the documents coming from the Ministry of Health. This legislative matter is about improving the system with regard to the recognition of professional qualifications. Current rules will be harmonised and improved. And we are happy to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23393	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Iron gift. 3 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23414	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to address some particularly important aspects of psychotherapy in Austria today, which are a special concern to me outside the formal nature of this novel. The occasion for this gives me the sad free death of one of my best friends who was buried today. I do not know if he could have prevented the treatment he discontinued for financial reasons. But I'm sure his chances of survival with a similar therapy would have been much higher. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, only ignorant and tuberous fools today doubt the effective effectiveness of psychotherapy. Much has developed well in Austria. I'm sure that's what Mr Rasinger is right about. Nevertheless, there are many challenges, of which I can only mention two for reasons of time. I also have a statistics available: According to a study by “Health Österreich GmbH”, 2 percent of the population in Austria needs psychotherapist treatment. Of these 160,000 people, just a quarter of them have the verbal happiness of being financially promoted to the full by the health insurance fund. Another quarter receives a cost grant of €21, which means that at the current hourly rates, about €50 can be borne by itself. The remaining 80 000 remain unconcerned or can afford the treatment itself, which they do not appear in official statistics. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I say very consciously here: Whoever deserves better is better provided mentally! This brings me to the second point, an aspect that is clarified: the not-ending dispute between the health insurance companies, between the various interests of the psychotherapists, even between the psychotherapists themselves. Here an urgent solution is needed, a result-oriented solution. For the sake of all patients, I invite you all to talk openly about this topic, to discuss it with the involvement of experts and practitioners. I therefore propose a parliamentary survey. According to Mrs. Universitätsprofessor Dr. Kryspin-Exner, it can take up to eight years for a patient to find the right treatment – eight years that my friend no longer has. Let us together give ourselves the time to make use of time for the needs of our citizens! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23466	The next item is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23487	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I can go directly to what my colleague said earlier: Even if we are talking today about a law that is an adaptation to the EU directive, it is a law on quality assurance. It is not only about the quality of psychotherapy as well as medicine, but above all about the fact that people in our country also have a corresponding access to psychotherapy. Psychotherapy is not cheap, and it is therefore not easy for everyone in our country. In the case of health care, which wants everyone to have access to psychotherapy, to a healing method that is proven to work as well – in many cases, not in all – like psychopharmacovigilance, in some cases even better, because it is more sustainable, we must ensure that people in Austria also have access to psychotherapy regardless of their income. In my time as Minister of Health, I asked Mr. University Professor Joachim Bauer for a presentation before the representatives of the Control Assembly and the General Assembly of the General Association. He has shown very impressively how well psychotherapy can affect people's health. I have hoped and I still hope that not only the costs for psychopharmaka will be replaced by social health insurance, but in the future also the costs of psychotherapy anywhere where it can prove to be helpful.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23520	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the EEA Psychologists Act, including the title and receipt in 539 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft law at third reading too, for a sign on this point. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the EEA Psychotherapy Act, including title and receipt in 540 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to vote in favour of this bill to be a sign of approval. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:17:48]] 15. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (552 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Exercise of Music Therapy (MuthG) (596 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23600	We're going to the 15th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr. Dr. Rasinger has been reported with 2 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23627	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Today we are creating a new job, a professional image, which is actually already available. I have to say quite honestly, I didn't know, but I have read about this in the literature: Music therapy – I would like to dedicate this speech to my football friend Wolfgang Schüssel, who is a good musician – was already supported by Herbert von Karajan in the 1970s by a kind of chair for music psychology. And since 1984 there has been a professional association. 170 musicians or people who do music therapy – I don't know if they have to play music themselves – have learned this at the university. 20 percent of these exercise this professionally. You don't deserve much, you have to say. But the crucial point is that: It is recognized worldwide that it helps: in children, in psychosis and so on. I have to say: I became a little bit from Saul to Paul, because I don't understand so much about the music. I can only imagine that the twelveton music is not good for me. But if you have to learn twelve hundred hours, how music works, and if it's already recognized by a Herbert of Karajan and invested a lot of money, then I think there's a lot of important things going on in the secret. That is why I am glad that we are finally giving this group of music therapists, who have been there since 1984, a kind of professional image and also recognition that they actually have a very good right and that, with their efforts, they can also achieve positive results in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23657	Mrs Oberhauser's next speech. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23679	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Erwin Rasinger said that music therapy is being learned at the university in Austria. She is being studied at the university, and that was also a reason why just the studied music therapists wanted to try to create a demarcation to what you might be able to learn somewhere. Erwin Rasinger has already told the story of music therapy. There is a Vienna school of music therapy, and so I am particularly pleased that we are have also managed to create a professional law here, especially to prevent music therapists from going to the surrounding European foreign country, where there are already professional laws for these people. Erwin Rasinger has already said it: Music therapy is mainly used in psychosis, neuroses, but especially in children, in patients after strokes, in rehabilitation and as an accompaniment of people who are burdened with progressive malignant diseases. All in all, a real step, a good step, especially when you know that the Vienna School of Music Therapy has finally achieved recognition in its own professional law.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23718	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. 2 minutes speaking time. – Can also be shorter.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23739	Good. So in 2 minutes I don't start singing and not conducting. It is a good law because it closes a big gap in health professions and is an additive, complementary offer to other therapies. I think it is important to say “additional” because it represents a mosaic that has failed de facto for decades, at least as far as its recognition is concerned. However, if one reads in the legal text or in the explanations that the need for professional music therapists is five times the current state of affairs, I must already ask whether this cash recovery package will offer those trained music therapists a field of work, because the already existing performance deficits or in sub-areas are not upgraded by this “health reform” – under quotation marks – due to this “health reform”. However, the explanations are not quite uncritical when it is said that music could once banish magical, mystical, demonic. – It may be, but I do not want to view disease and disease as “demonic” and “magic”. And if psychotherapy is called a substitute for missing mental care, it's not quite super scientific either. But since the law lacks demonic and also magical, I gladly agree with him.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23777	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23798	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, It has already been said that this is a good law, which closes a gap here, a law that certainly makes sense, especially because there has not yet been a legal regulation in Austria. And we are also certainly pointing towards that. I think we are one of the first countries to recognise music therapy. Music therapy is certainly very successful in certain areas. But what is certainly a gap in the law is the funding that is completely open. I don't think it's enough to offer anything that people can't afford. And right now, in the course of a cash recovery package, it would have been more useful to involve it in putting this whole law on such a level that it also benefits people. What we're doing here is a pure paragraph-claubry. We decide a law, we set up a professional group, a profession at legal level. But we do not give people the opportunity to afford it. And in the light of the fact that medical care is becoming increasingly expensive and that people will soon have to pay for themselves, it would have been important to also negotiate a financing of this music therapy. Unfortunately, that is not possible. Nevertheless, we will first agree to the law, but very much hope that the adoption of costs in this area will take place in Bälden.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23830	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23852	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We too agree with this law, on the one hand because the Vienna School of Music Therapy has always and still has a pioneering role in Europe and, on the other hand, because it was urgently necessary to establish a regulation of professional practice here. As a result of this security, there is a useful addition to health care. It is important, as I believe, that the services and offers offered by the music therapists are a support in the health system as a whole. My previous speakers have already said: especially for elderly patients, but also especially for children, where it is shown that this form of therapy is effective. I think it is very necessary to maintain close cooperation with the doctors here, and that this therapy should be done in consultation with the doctors in order to ensure the use of musical therapeutic treatment high-quality and holistic in the sense of the patient. For our approval, it was also crucial that, above all, the knowledge acquired abroad, i.e. equivalent training, as well as previous professional experience and previous training, should be recognised. Of course, what we also look at critically – and here we agree with the criticism of the previous speakers – is that it is really not understandable that freelance music therapists cannot calculate their performance as cash performance for the patients. I would ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to enter into negotiations with the main association in this matter very quickly, and to insist that there is an offer in this area for patients who are also a leader. Because otherwise, unfortunately, the law of God is not worth as much as we believe it would be necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23889	From the government bank, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23912	Madam President. Honourable Members! High house! Values listeners! The professional practice of music therapy is not yet regulated by law, and it has been repeatedly pointed out that it was a very important conclusion in the reign of the offered therapies and is to establish here a legal regulation and a legal foundation. It is thus also properly positioned the position of this essential therapeutic direction. Finally, society has already adopted this form of therapy, and there are excellent examples of therapeutic possibilities in this area here. This government template is a professional law, in which the reservation of music therapeutics was also laid down by law. In particular, training and the conditions for professional training and leadership in the list of music therapists are clearly regulated here. It is also essential, however, that the transitional provisions concern those people who are already working in this area, and I think that we have also left a corresponding wide room for recognition of previous trainings. The preamble of this law was not made by the esteemed officials of the ministry, but it presupposes a month-long discussion process of experts and music therapists in a specially created advisory board. That was the agreement of experts, and I think you have to recognize it as such. I would also like to point out that music therapy, especially in the stationary area, makes a very, very important contribution after an intensive station stay and is already financed here at a high percentage. The next steps are to go, and I invite everyone to work to ensure that we take a next step here, of course, in the overall area of psychotherapy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23956	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to say 1 minute's speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23977	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It's already sounded like: With this draft, the law has, as it were, equated with reality: A profession which is no longer to be thought away from the spectrum of non-medical therapeutic health professions has got a legal foundation. For example, in working with disabled people, we have been appreciating the work of the music therapists for many years, and through the new law there are uniform and, above all, affordable trainings, especially in terms of quality. The offer of the legally regulated health professions thus becomes more colorful and diverse, which should meet the needs of the patients and strengthen the health care itself. However, allow me also a few sentences on a uniform system in the field of statutory health professions. To our excellent health planning, for example with regard to the availability of therapeutic services, is essential. In order to make this planning possible, the management of a list of all members of the professional groups entitled to work is of benefit, indeed essential. The legal anchoring of the professional image of the music therapists is a positive enrichment of the statutory health professions. However, it should be noted that it is desirable, even in the context of competition with other, namely industrial, professional and in the face of an international environment, that there is a strategic overall approach to the reorganisation or re-regulation of statutory health professions. I would like to welcome the music therapists and thank Mrs. Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24022	Next speaker: Mr Ehmann. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24044	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, music therapy in Austrian healthcare has now made an indispensable contribution. That is, I think, undisputed and has already been addressed in advance. In the future, the law itself regulates the training of music therapeutics, the form of professional practice, i.e. a guarantee of quality standards, and it also includes the requirements for professional practice and ultimately the professional obligations as well as the management of a list of music therapists. Until now, the practice of music therapy was largely a free trade, i.e. that precisely these quality standards did not always have to be respected. The music therapists may only practice this profession in the future if the exercise of this profession complies with the Music Therapy Act. This also applies, of course, to training, whereby one differs in principle in the co-responsible professional exercise of music therapy after a Bachelor's degree course at a university and in the self-responsible professional exercise of music therapy after a diploma degree at the university. The crucial problem here is often the budgeting of various health institutions, because until now the therapy could only be paid out of secondary budgets in the form of a honorary note, or when hired was often not clear how to handle this professional form in practice. It is therefore clear that with this legal regulation we fix this essential health care as a profession, while at the same time preventing a therapist from possibly enjoying long-term intensive training and, after completing this training, recognizing that there is no such profession at all. In the future, there will be him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24077	Next speaker: Mr Vock. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24100	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The present Music Therapy Act recognises only the training, the professional image. However, it is still unclear how this independent activity can be carried out in practice, because formally the therapist still needs the approval of a doctor, but not because the doctor decides whether the therapy is necessary in the sense of the healing process or not, but whether the costs are necessary or not. That is, the doctor decides again only on the cost factor. So, similar to my previous speakers, I fear that this therapy will ultimately lead to a two-class medicine: One can afford it, the other can't. But since music therapy is particularly successful in children, of course we welcome this initiative. Children and adolescents with conspicuous social behaviour, aggressiveness, fears, young people who suffer from relationship disorders such as mutism, lack of self-esteem or depression, young people who are in situations of developmental conflicts and crises such as divorce, puberty and so on can help with music therapy. Unfortunately, we do not openly discuss why the above-mentioned problems are increasingly problems of our children, but if we can help suffering children with this music therapy, of course we welcome this initiative.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24131	Next speaker: Mrs Riener. Voluntary speaking time limit: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24152	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! As a psychotherapist and social worker, I also welcome this Music Therapy Act, of course, because it is a good addition to this aspect of health and social affairs. I also believe that this law is a pioneer in health by clarifying the field of work, because we have long been fighting in the social field for music therapy to be recognized and paid as such. I am very grateful to you, Mrs Federal Minister, for the negotiations and for the generous transitional arrangements, because there are a number of colleagues who have done additional training on seminars, and, and, and, and, have really acquired a quality for many years. For the reason that this solution has now come, I would like to thank you very much for some of the concerns that have been expressed in advance. But thank you for the good negotiations and that this was still possible!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24176	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 552 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree with this draft law at third reading too, in order to give a sign in this regard. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:37:30]] 16. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 340/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on the introduction of a legal limit value for trans-fat acids in foodstuffs (600 d.b.) 17. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 361/A(E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on extending the labelling obligation to processed eggs (601 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24250	We now come to the points 16 and 17 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Hellerer has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24277	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! These applications are about assigning them from the Health Committee to the Consumer Protection Committee. This, of course, has the background that these applications have content relating to the interests of consumers. A request concerns the labelling of trans fatty acids in foodstuffs. Transfats are industrially hardened oils, which become transfats in this process from harmless unsaturated fatty acids, whose molecules can be severely depleted from the human body. Of course, the question is, how large are the amounts of these hardened fats that we take to ourselves. There are also numerous studies that have been carried out in EU countries and which deal with them. One thing is certain: That the content of trans fatty acid in margarine is reversed because the manufacturing technologies have changed and we are now at a percentage of one percent. Originally, the discussion was made precisely because of these margarine trans fats, which are no longer available today. However, we still have high values in the backmargarine, and of course it also pays off to discuss it more intensively. There is no labelling obligation in Austria. At EU level, regulations will be discussed, and we will also do so in the Consumer Protection Committee in the future. The second application concerns the obligation to label processed eggs. Heimische Legännen can cover just 75 percent of the egg needs in Austria. From 1.1.2004, production and origin data will be printed individually on each row, with numerical and letter codes. As of 1.1.2009, cage farming is prohibited in Austria, but it is still permitted in other countries. The farmers are therefore afraid of distortions of competition. In addition, the In the case of processed eggs, it is not possible to find out which types of production and origin are behind them. A draft of this matter is therefore already being prepared by the Federal Minister. We will discuss both applications in greater depth in the Consumer Protection Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24322	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24344	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Health Committee has unanimously decided to ask the President or the Bureau to assign both requests to the Consumer Protection Committee. I am very glad that this is happening, including on the basis of fundamental considerations. We experience very often that applications with clear consumer relevance are allocated to different committees. And it is a question of considering how to see problems. Agriculture sees food problems as something different from consumer protection, and economic representatives are not always the consumer protectors, but argue from their position. Therefore, I think it is very important that precisely these two applications be discussed in detail in the Consumer Protection Committee, and I hope that – I do not want to go ahead with the content discussion – we will develop a unanimous line on the issue of transfat acids, but also on the issue of labelling across party borders within the meaning of consumers and we also come to a unanimous decision. The question of trans fatty acids will be discussed throughout Europe. There are several studies on this, also in Austria – I recall only the study of the Chamber of Workers, the study of the Federal Ministry – also with very concrete conclusions. The data are available, not only from the public side, but of course also from the economic side, so that a joint decision can then be taken on the basis of this data situation. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I think it is necessary to discuss what requests are to be made for which committees. I think it would be quite open to express it, if there were to be a number of equal applications for different committees, and then these applications would be discussed from various points of view. In the course of a regulatory reform, we should also be aware of the Committee's requests for substance. I would like to add that as a complement to the two proposals in question, and of course I hope that we will be assigning both of them to the Consumer Protection Committee today in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24384	Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber with a time limit of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24405	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hellerer already has very well described what this proposal is about, and Mr Maier has also explained what the intention is as to why it should be in the Consumer Protection Committee. The Committee is not so old – Mr Maier, we both know that, as I have been fighting for such a committee – and I believe that this is also a question of the practice and development of parliamentarianism, where bordering is and how we can actually combine consumer interests, and that it is precisely questions of cross-cutting that are relevant to consumers that are being negotiated in this committee. In this respect, we Greens believe – and we have said so in the Committee – that this is a reasonable way of dealing with it. Of course, we are particularly pleased that it was not the practice here that had been practised for a long time to simply move the applications back to the long bank and just to postpone them. Therefore, it would be a positive step to clarify, both in terms of content and in terms of form, the question of how to deal with consumer protection in the future and how the Committee should be structured. What is new to me, Mrs. Federal Minister, is that you, as a member of the Food and Consumer Protection Act, come to this committee. I only got that more or less in the discussions with colleagues yesterday. I think this is a good way of doing this, because it would be curious, if not the competent minister, who ultimately has to make the law, is the first contact for Members. - So much for the procedure. In the matter itself, I believe that labelling is becoming increasingly difficult, because it is becoming more and more important. Also important in that we have to come to simple models, and that is very, very delicate. For example, I mention this traffic light label which has been discussed in the UK, or I mention, also with relevance to the health aspect, the corresponding labelling of fast food products, in terms of calorie, fat and sugar content. These are all things that are very consumer-relevant, but that also have enormous effects on diet habits or on the health status of the population. On this occasion I would also like to address a few words to the situation in milk. We have heard today that the IG milk has ended the delivery stop, the delivery strike that it has been carrying out for a week with the German dairy farmers and also with dairy farmers in other countries. This is certainly a good signal also in view of the fact that farmers see that their arguments that have come are also taken seriously that a sensitive product such as milk is also appreciated by consumers in the future. The fact that there will continue to be a cost-effective producer's milk price in the future is a great public interest and a willingness to continue to negotiate it. Today, in the context of a parliamentary meeting with these representatives, we have heard how important it is in such matters to involve those concerned themselves. In this respect too, Parliament, I think, has been exemplary, and all the representatives of all the political groups have participated in this discussion. – Unfortunately, at the milk summit on Monday, the Federal Minister Pröll had initiated, which was not involved in the stredging farmers. This, I think, should not be left unmentioned in this context either. We need to take measures against food dumping. It is certainly right to discuss the applications in the Consumer Protection Committee, and I believe that the price debate and the price debate we have to hold could also have their place there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24463	The next speaker was Mrs Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24484	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The two applications are very important from the BZÖ's point of view, because they are about better information, better labelling and possible introduction of limit values for transfat acids. And we have also agreed that these applications will be dealt with in the Consumer Protection Committee, because there, I think, they are properly placed. We know that, although people increasingly have improved knowledge of nutrition and how to deal with food, we also see that the trend towards healthy diet is a steadily increasing one, but we also need to note that, ultimately, diet behavior, consumption and purchasing behaviour do not run the same way with this trend, and that in this area there is often a terrifying uninformedness and perhaps also negligence. Wrong nutrition, wrong nutrition is not only shown by obesity, but I would like to say that from my point of view it is worrying that the number of overweight children in the last seven years has increased very much, with all the accompanying and risk symptoms that lead to food-related diseases. Therefore, I believe, one should not underestimate the meaning – in the negative sense – of the false fats, the trans fatty acids and consider setting limits on a legal basis if this can minimize health damage. For the second application, which deals with the requirement to label eggs which are processed into products. This is a fundamental welcome to the enlargement process. But I might say to the BZÖ that it is important to us that the labels are such that they really understand the consumer that he can read them and that they are comprehensible to him. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Information with which no one can start anything, because they are so difficult to understand that you need almost a scientific study to bring us nothing. Therefore: Information yes, improve information, but so that it is clear and understandable to the consumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24530	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 600 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to this, to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. I accept Amendment 340/A(E) to the Committee on Consumer Protection. We shall also vote on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its 601 report of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I accept Amendment No 361/A(E) to the Consumer Protection Committee. [[19:52:11]] 18. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 692/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on the re-inforced force sets of the Bacillen Ausscheidergesetz (597 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24613	We're going to the 18th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak is Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein, who has a speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24640	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The present application concerns the re-entry of the Bacilla Excretion Act, which was removed in 2002 without replacement. The reason for this request was that since then the occurrence of these cases has become more and more intense. Unfortunately, God was rejected in the Committee on this request, pointing out that the number of cases of disease has decreased – which is not quite clear to me, because if you examine less, you can only find fewer cases of illness. Another argument was that this would lead to a mere snapshot of the moment. That's probably right, but today we have the situation that we have a snapshot at the beginning of a working relationship. We would then have the opportunity to carry out control at least once a year with this Barbarian Excretion Act. Another argument that came from the Federal Minister was that she said that in general typhus or paratyphus are no longer the problem that the raw materials should be examined. The Federal Minister has also said in the Committee that she is willing to have discussions with experts here. I don't know if You've already led these. I would really like to welcome this, but it was an occasion in Salzburg, on the one hand, but on the other hand the fact that the gastronomy itself has arrived at us and wishes for this law to come back, also in a modified way. We're relatively open there. Unfortunately, we haven't heard of it so far. So we are also willing to agree to a similar, modified law. It doesn't have to come back in exactly the same form. I believe, however, that it will be necessary to find a replacement law in some way for those who have been abolished in 2002. I would ask you to start really serious discussions in this regard and if you unfortunately do not agree with our request today, you will soon come with your own.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24676	The next speaker was Mr Eder. He wishes a speaking time of 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24698	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! A few years ago, among other things, an important step was taken with the establishment of the AGES to improve overall food safety. Today, risks can be identified faster and earlier and appropriate measures can be taken. And good networking in this area has also resulted in a marked decline in salmonella infections. Checks are no longer so much in the final products, but rather in the entire production process, and the food testing of the raw material is in the foreground. We have very good hygiene regulations, strict regulations under HACCP. However, the required annual studies would only be annual snapshots, associated with high bureaucratic effort. There's no problem, according to the county headquarters. There is also no increase in infections. And in any case, the old destiny would no longer be according to the state of science. However, caution is certainly appropriate. The surrounding and up is an optimal slaughter and food hygiene. But I believe that in this case we can also trust ourselves to suspend a measure or, as in this case, not to reintroduce it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24728	The next speaker was Mr Vock. He wants to talk for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24749	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me have some personal comments. I had a personal experience that opened my eyes, and maybe this example can also open your eyes to you. How many of us have I visited many locals on the occasion of the National Council election and in some of these locals I also took food from me. A week before the National Council election, I suddenly had diarrhoea, vomiting and increasing fever. [[Call to the SPÖ: That was your party's election campaign!]] Salmonella poisoning was then detected in the hospital. [[Abg. Riepl: We've gotten bad too!]] – I am glad that the SPÖ delegates listen so actively. It's already after 4:00, and you're still active. Thank you for that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I was then predicted to have to expect between 14 days and three weeks until the disease heals. I had been lucky to God, I had been healed after 14 days and had defeated the disease. But I noticed a lot. If you say today that this is just a snapshot of the moment, ask me the question: Why, after my illness, did the county headquarters suddenly become aloof? I and my entire family were examined, we had to give several controls because they said there was a danger now. But I wonder, Where did I get stuck? Was that poisoning due to bad food? Or was there perhaps in a company, in a holding, a permanent excretor who might not even know about his illness because he no longer had to carry out annual checks? So it is not only a hygiene problem, but it can also be a problem that someone who is not at all aware of the disease passes on this disease highly contagious. Entrepreneurs are liable for their staff, but the entrepreneur can no longer send his staff annually to the doctor for control. He assumes liability, but he cannot, as it were, pass it on to the employee in such a way that he can be examined because he has no right to do so. This means that a liability is laid down here for the entrepreneur, on the one hand, but on the other hand, he cannot execute it. Ladies and gentlemen, of course my group and I are in favour of everything that saves administrative costs when it comes to reducing bureaucracy. But these savings must not be caused by the health of our citizens. We therefore regret that you are not likely to agree to our request today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24802	As the next speaker, Mrs Schasching spoke with a speaking time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24824	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! As the example of the previous speaker shows, it's just snapshots: Momentaries that are unfortunate when it comes to one; snapshots, however, are not supposed to draw a picture of a contaminated Austria. Before two health committees, I raised this issue with a completely different intention: not with the intention of reintroducing a law that is scientifically obsolete and certainly no longer in line with today's state of affairs, but with the intention of protecting especially the staff in the area of tourism/gastronomy. We have 169 000 employees there, about one fifth in the service, one fifth in the kitchen, 70 000 in the kitchen, which we can protect early by regular checks against appropriate diseases in order to combat them. Then we can not only protect the employees, but also the guests, make early treatments possible and thus help the entire economy to save something. But it is primarily about creating a common new base, especially in the field of gastronomy, a special type of precautionary examination that is adapted to today's standard. I voted in favour of this because we agreed in advance that there should be something very special here. For example, there should be special lung studies in the area of passive smoking, which is a major topic in the gastronomy. For example, there should be no new regular X-ray examination, from which we would withdraw. There should be a certain type of study, which is particularly applied to special loads in the field of gastronomy. There it is said to invite experts who know, on the one hand, what burdens workers are particularly exposed to in the field; and experts in science and medicine, in order to develop a special form of health research specifically for this area. I think, Mrs. Federal Minister, we will do this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24866	Mr Grünewald has been mentioned as the next speaker. He made a speech time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24887	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If you look at the statistics of salmonella infections, you can see that since 2002 – the excretion law has been stopped – it has fallen from just over 8,000 cases to just over 4,000 within five years, despite the support of the law. Every year, 100,000 “patients ” were not to be said – people were examined. This costs a rod of money and actually only conveys a pseudo-security, because I can be examined today, everything is – in the folk mouth or also medical – in butter, so to speak, the chair is free, hurra! And this year so much can happen the next day, the next day, and there is no more investigation. I was first of all the opinion of my colleague, Mrs Belakowitsch, but then I telephoned a colleague who is now in the AGES and who used to be the hygienist and microbiologist in Innsbruck, who de facto also led the Bacteriological Institute. He says that it is internationally clear and crystal clear that the main source of infection is food, infected, contaminated food. Therefore, I am convinced that it is about investing here, providing further budgets, often investing in research, even in research. This brings more security and shows more economic reason than Pseudo security prefers and very many people, I don't say now, to bother; but work and effort is it, and it also costs a lot of money. That is why I believe that one is currently on a good path that should not be abandoned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24928	Mrs Haubner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 2 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24949	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In 2002, the Bacillenscheider test for staff in the gastronomy or those dealing with food was discontinued. I think we should also say here what has happened since 2002. In the field of food hygiene there has been a strong development, such as the new Food Safety Act, the food law, which was put on a new basis. HACCP and principles of HACCP are an essential component of different standards that have been developed. I think there has been a strong thinking process here. Therefore, from our point of view, there is currently a sufficient level of rules on personal hygiene in the food sector. There are different hygiene systems. regulations on certain food groups and on specific types of farm. In particular, compliance with these hygienic measures in food preparation and in storage is also continuously examined and verified. That is why we see it rather as an overvaluation that we should reintroduce the Bazillenscheider test because, as previous speakers have already said, it is really an annual snapshot and in the meantime very, very much can happen. We from BZÖ do not consider it necessary to decide on a replacement solution. This is not necessary for material reasons, because the hygiene rules are sufficient from our point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24988	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25010	Madam President. Honourable Members! High house! In the view of the Federal Ministry of Health, Family and Youth, it is expected at the moment that the repeal of the Bacillenscheidergesetz does not result in a loss of safety for consumers. In today's prominent bacterial food poisonings, in particular salmonella, Campylobacter, EHEC and Listeries, the pathogens are mainly from the raw materials of the food. Therefore, a prophylaxis prior to food poisoning and infections was no longer expected with the routine annual chair examination of certain occupational groups. It has already been pointed out that cases of disease have been reduced. The Food Hygiene Regulation already provides for a very modern and EU-compatible hygiene regulation including personal hygiene. I think that in this view we take absolutely into account the relevant scientific situation. However, I strongly support it – and we are here in many discussions – that, in particular in the field of occupational health promotion, specific professional groups are increasingly addressed and more account is taken of inclusion in routine investigations for specific professional groups. This is, I think, the right way not only to cover an area and a spectrum, but also to consider the overall burden of the individual professional groups in their professional activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25049	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 597 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[20:09:19]] 19. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 573/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on the recruitment of service information sheets (598 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25100	We're entering the 19th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak is Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein, who has 3 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25128	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The present proposal is to abolish these performance information sheets, which the Austrians receive once a year. Above all, we heard yesterday that a cash recovery package came by the Council of Ministers. Part of this cash-rehabilitation package is also to issue a patient's bill. This is not from the table, but it's probably moved – that's right – until the technical feasibility is given. I assume that at a turbo speed with which this rehabilitation package is to be whipped through here, you will already try to introduce this patient bill with a turbo speed. So there's actually a double information for patients. Once they should get them from the doctor – if it is technically possible – once again at the end of the year, when no one else can remember which doctor he really visited. There will be no more control. If you want to raise the so-called cost-sensitivity in the patients, I think that goes beyond the goal. I know a lot of people who throw this relatively unreadly into the trash. The second thing to complain about also appears in a confirmation of the doctor's chamber. Even though you, Mrs Bundesminister, are now making this allergic, the medical board has meant that there are many mistakes on these certificates. That means that is something that costs a lot of money and is shipped once a year; more often it is not because the shipping costs are too high. I think we could save this money. Let's give it to the patient where they need it, in the treatment. If we already say that we have a patient bill that is supposed to come – I am expressly opposed to the word “patient warranting”, because the patient does not own something to the doctor, but it should be the doctor’s owning something, so it would have to be a doctor’s warrant –: This will come, you won't let yourself stop. Therefore, in my opinion, we do not need to double the happiness of the patients in Austria for expensive money. Let's at least take this one part off once!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25168	The next item is the speech by Mr Donabauer. 1 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25191	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We cannot meet this expectation, Mrs Colleague. First of all, it was your group, your group, who in 2002/2003 demanded exactly what we decided in the government before. In the meantime, we know that LIVE, performance information for insured persons, is good – you just have to let it be said – and that, in general, even today, the citizens with the e-card, when certified, have access to the information system. Unfortunately, there are only 70 000 or 80 000 citizens who have made this certification; it can be more tomorrow. We see in it an important information to also raise and raise citizens' awareness of power. We also have many questions, not a question; you can explain that. That there are mistakes there and there – we are working it out. In any case, this information document is important. I don't share the opinion that she's landing in the paper baskets. That she finds different interest may be. LIVE was good to this day and can get even better tomorrow. We will continue this course. I just need to tell you one thing: The number of €3 187 000 is not correct. LIVE is actually a bit more expensive, because it is also good.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25226	The next speaker was Mr Vock. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25247	In 2006, the sending of these service information sheets is expected to cost €3.2 million, only € 2.8 million for the letter portal. If we want to make a subsidy to the mail, we can decide this directly, then we should not decide indirectly! If I hear the patients are satisfied with this, I ask you: Where did you ask the patients about this? Where did you ask the insured persons if they wanted to receive this information and whether they were satisfied with it? - I hear other people. [[Abg. Donabauer: We are doing it all the time, Mr. Cot! We're doing it all the time!]] I hear many insured people tell me: I got that, if at all, it's just like being placed in the roundbox. That means it doesn't really do something. The Vienna Medical Chamber pointed out that this information is insufficient and incomplete. Therefore, I do not see where the advantage of this information is. I would also like to ask myself one thing, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: If an insured person goes to the health examination once a year, goes to the dentist twice a year, maybe has his glasses examined with the ophthalmologist, then at the end of the year he gets an information on how much he has cost the health system. But what he saves us from this regular screening is nowhere! On the one hand, the doctors are right to demand regular screenings, but on the other hand, we point out how much this costs the system. Or a seriously ill, perhaps elderly person, who has a lot of medications and a severe suffering that lasts a long time, also causes high costs through numerous medical visits and through numerous medications. But does he do that voluntarily? Or does he simply trust his doctor that the therapy he makes is the necessary therapy that the medication costs are the necessary? Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to make savings, we will make them where they are necessary at the cash desks. For example, if I hear that there should be patients who pass on their e-cards and are therefore cared for by several people, there is a potential for savings there! When I hear pharmacies tell you that people come with individual recipes and pack the drugs directly into a package, so that they go abroad, I also wonder if it is necessary that we send subsidized medications abroad. But there's nothing about this performance information! Because this always happens with the consent of the individual insured. He'll pass on his e-card, and when it comes to x medical visits, he'll still say: That's all right. That's why we say the liberals: Yes to inform the patients – but then if the patient has wanted it and if he has told us how he wants it! For example, sending by e-mail would be significantly cheaper than one by post. However, we say no to the practice so far, in which any bold information simply costs only money.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25287	The next speaker is Mr Spindelberger. You want to talk for 2 minutes? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25308	Ladies and gentlemen! It has not been decided here in the House in 2002 for nothing to do with the introduction of these service information sheets. On the one hand, to provide the insured with information about their health insurance funds, so that each of us can share what health insurance is doing for us. The second aspect, which I believe is not to be rejected by the hand, is that this information on the services provided to the insured is given annually, on the one hand, a certain control option, and on the other hand, that was also the idea of a little cost-consciousness. When I face all of this, it is too little for me if the applicant simply says: This costs us € 3 million in the year, so we put it in. – There is also a clear no on my part, for the following reason: You yourself, Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein, have said that there are massive concerns on the part of the medical profession about these performance information sheets. That's why I'm seriously wondering why. Without wanting to shave all doctors over a comb now, because there are many, yes, most of those who are reliable partners in this system: Could it not be – if I only look at the Styrian figures – that the doctors are criticising this system because alone in the previous year 700 insured persons reported that the performance information sheets show positions that were not provided? 300 alone have led to the most intensive research and also to reimbursements of the doctors! That's what I'm saying. Although only one case occurs that the doctors have wrongly charged benefits, this benefit information system is worth these €3 million. On the contrary, I would even like that not to be stopped, but that the costs actually incurred in hospitals will appear on all the information sheets in the future. I also believe that if we expand the information in the service information sheets, we could in future save ourselves the receipts from the doctors due to the current situation. I believe that it would be better to issue these receipts in future in social security through these central agencies, through this networking. Mr Vock, one last at the cost. I believe that through targeted information campaigns of the health insurance companies, which are now starting, where the notice is given that, at the request of the insured person, the entire query can also be done online, it will be possible to save millions of euros in costs in the future. We're on the right track, so I'm sure.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25354	As the next speaker, I would like to give the floor to Mr Grünewald. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25375	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I do not think the truth lies in the middle and black and white painting is indicated. Performance information systems are good and necessary, but there are many degrees between the trash and the frame to be left and to hang into the living room. The system is not perfect, you're right. Once you get it once a year – so I do hard to understand and read it and remember where I was nine, ten, eleven months ago or if this was a son of mine or myself. It is also not very customer-friendly, but still it is necessary. If you want to make improvements in the health system, it doesn't make sense to doctor around in recent years and to make punctual cosmetics once and for all, depending on what the newspaper is writing or where someone is hurting or upset, but it's about presenting an overall concept. This has been tried, however, with this cash-rehabilitation package, called health reform package, which is none. However, if the opportunity arises and if we get time to think about the summer, to consider and to hear experts and to decide on it more consistently in the autumn than it has been designed so far, it makes sense to put it into an overall package, because the patient warranting is also a card in play. Now, three, four or five months before a new law to change something, I don't think I'm indicated because we don't know how the other building blocks will look. And I think that a vote is smarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25408	Mrs Haubner has now come to speak. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25440	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We at the BZÖ also find it necessary that there is a performance information for patients. We are in favour of how it was introduced at the time, and it already has a very intense discussion at that time. ==References== In particular in the health field, the individual's awareness of costs is particularly important and, in the context of the transparency of the benefits involved. Most checkouts send the performance information once a year. There are, of course, also those checkouts in which the patients have self-retained. Here there are often notifications, and I think that's not so bad, because you can well remember and know what self-holds happen in the area of BVA, for example. What we certainly don't need is to introduce an additional patient warrant. A patient receipt that is already very controversial and that really deals more with bureaucratic activities than with activities in and for the patient. So I'm saying, Keeping service information sheets and taking this request as an opportunity to improve what can be improved on the basis of previous experience, of course also in terms of costs. I think, in general, to switch to e-mail, will not work because, despite everything, many people, especially older people, have no Internet access. So here you will always have to inform postally and differently. That's why I'm saying: We should really take this request as an opportunity to check where we can save, and above all take this request for an opportunity to say: Let's really say goodbye to the patient warrant. Let's see that the performance information gets even better than it has been before!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25482	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its report 598 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[20:25:00]] 20. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 602/A(E) by Dr Kurt Grünewald, Members of Parliament, on the report on the results of the German Federal Working Group on Hospice Care and Palliative Care (599 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25532	We're coming to the 20th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. As the first speaker, I give the floor to Mr Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25559	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! In Holland, 3 200 people are transported annually to the beyond by means of death aid, active death aid. 3 200, which corresponds to 4 percent of There are deaths and an undefined number of more or less not reported. Some of those who have the most severe depressions do not have the right to accept them, and I believe that is the point we are talking about today. What is the answer to active death aid? – I tell you: It is a continuous hospice/palliative care plus pain care at the end of life. The topic is: die worthy. There are very good studies that show quite clearly: For this reason, 90 percent of people who want active death aid want to be freed from pain because they are alone because they have unsaltable pain, and if they can safely say goodbye in a hospice environment, then this desire to die will fall to 10 percent. That is why it is so important that we give this point our attention. We were at the end of the day. We really caught up in the various hospital plans. There are also mobile hospice in Vienna. This will be completed by the year 2012. However, I do not hide from you that the report states that there is a relative financial burden between social assistance, public health funds and donations. We should do everything we can to ensure that the hospice movement is better secured, above all financially, and that no people in their last hours still have difficulty coming to this hospice care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25601	The next speaker is Mrs Rudas. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25648	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rasinger, you said it correctly and I fully agree with you there: People in their last months, weeks, days not to leave alone, to accompany them in dignity, but above all to strengthen health in elderly and sick people and not just to focus on the disease is important. It's about human death accompaniment, and that's fundamental consensus in all parties. Vienna is an example here, but we need a well-developed network of hospice facilities throughout Austria. Well-trained professionals who care for patients and their families. However, I would like to take the opportunity, above all, to express my thanks, my respect and my recognition to all those people who work in Hospizen, including all volunteers who see their work not only as work but above all as a task. [[General condolences.]] Mrs. Minister, this is about further steps, and together we will do well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25688	Mr Grünewald came to speak at 6 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25711	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The issue is too difficult and too serious to deal with in two or less minutes. However, we should draw attention to the fact that many still feel that dying is a fundamental threat. Farewelling is already hard for us as a living person among those living, and finally to say goodbye again much harder, not only us but also our surroundings, our relatives. And there the fish starts to smell already somewhere – it doesn't matter where. Much has happened in recent years, mainly through the help of charitative institutions, various NGOs and various churches, something also in the public sector. Nevertheless, I think it is a huge scandal that there is not only a two-class medicine there, where we are still fit, fresh and only sick, but rather also dying. It is an insidious scandal that the – that is not a good expression – quality or the humanity and also the legibility of a human death depends on a registration note. It's a tremendous thing to pretend to be healthy in dying. If they want to die at home – what most want – if they want to die in a hospice that is not integrated into a hospital, they are the subject of the competence of the social world. And many applications for social assistance, including so-called family hospice, will not be answered until the applicants are dead. It's a clumsy part! I think that's a scandal. I think it is a scandal if you have self-retaining to an inescapable extent, which are only dampened because the star fingers are moving through the countries. Where are we, I wonder, in Austria. Something has to happen. It contradicts any principle of equality that family members also have to pay or be asked for Regress, depending on the federal state in which they were born. That is why years ago – which was in 2003 – I requested a working group between the federal government and countries to avoid this federal competence confusion or at least to smooth it out. Circa – I just have to look – after a year – it was in September 2003 – after a long struggle, it became an all-party resolution application in December 2004. That's nice and good. Then, next year it came about, as it were, better to say, on a critical trail. And they wrote May 2005 when the working group formed itself. It was completed in June 2006, on 6 June 2006. June, two years ago. Officially, I only saw this paper or part of the paper – the summary – in the last committee. Before, it was neither the ÖBIG nor the Ministry to get it, however, a few months ago I had a talk in which I was told about content. And I wonder, Why this secrecy? Why a lack of confidence? Or would it have required a completely different political confidentiality? I've had a suspicion. They worked very well, a target stand, an ist stand. There's a lot there already, but I'm going to read this summary to you now, the summary of a working group that has been working for a year – I quote: Long-term financing of graduated hospice and palliative services must be ensured, at political level, between all financiers. - I knew that before I asked for it. On the other hand – I quote –: Further steps towards implementation in coordination between the health and social spheres. - Yes, my God! That's an absolute zero. And where it comes to concrete things, where the federal states are listed, the status is now less than 40 percent in comparison to the 2010 or 2012 target position – the two variants are available – in Austria. We have only a 20 % degree of fulfillment in some areas, such as palliative consiliar services or mobile hospice services. And this costs 101 or 102 million € in the final expansion, which is about 0.4 percent of the health costs. And I'm getting angry slowly. If we get this report now, the Health Committee should look at it and see that this is achieved before all those who have requested something have passed away. At the family hospice, it was thought that 15,000 people would do that. Only 400 have applied for on average because they cannot afford to give up the salary because they cannot afford not to work. This is also a cleaner – and this expression is 100 percent justified here. So: I am in favour of the fact that this is also part of the public services, because otherwise I do not only request that the cash offices send us a service catalogue that they paid us, but that we ask the relatives and patients to write to the Federal Government how much they often have to pay themselves in death. That must be an end! I thank you for getting this now, but that's not the end. This is to be the beginning of a little more gas on the health committee in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25775	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25797	Madam President. Honourable Members! High house! In December 2004, yes, that is right, a federal working group on hospice care and palliative care was set up. I believe that we all know how essential this issue is, and it is a sensitive issue not only from the contents, but of course also from the responsibilities. That is why this working group was set up, and the outcome of the very intensive discussions was presented by GÖG/ÖBIG in a report and brought to the attention of the Federal Health Commission in June 2006. In particular, this report contains a survey – and that was also the requirement for this report – and a comparative analysis of the status quo. We can only work on it and also take responsibility for those responsible if we know where the deficits are. However, this report also includes an explanation of the differences in terminology and the state of implementation, and this is also essential because there are large differences here in the understanding of Palliative Care. This too is an essential step towards common ground. In this report, however, we also have a proposal for a graduated supply in the Hospiz and Palliative Care sectors. The report shall be forwarded to Parliament. I have already pointed out in the Committee that, despite questions, I have not been able to explain why Mr Greenewald has not received this report. it has. We will, of course, make it available to everyone. He's done and no secret either. In the meantime, the following activities have been set up: In 2007, the GOEG/ÖBIG was commissioned to start work mainly in the field of quality management for the palliative and hospice sector. I believe that this is very important in order to bring the very different structures to a level playing field through the quality rail. In 2008, around 40 Hospice and Palliative Institutions of all federal states were involved in a project in which they ensure and represent core processes and are already defined based on them for all organisations in Austria. In 2009, we will sum up all these results from the core processes in a quality manual, which will also provide all the hospice and palliative facilities, but also work together in the Committee to what extent we can define mandatory criteria here. I support all the words. I believe that it is a very essential task of the Federal Government not only to define the content here, but as the next step – as we know from the very heated discussions on funding – I also ask for support because this is, of course, an essential step – to ensure funding for this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25848	As the next speaker, I give the floor to Mr Vock. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25869	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rudas thanked the Hospice staff. I would like to join in, but would also like to extend this thanks to the members of the families who sacrifice themselves here, the ladies and gentlemen, the sons, daughters, spouses... – daughters and sons who really work here, but who do not cause us any costs, so we do not see them. [[Abg. Steibl: Especially the daughters! 80 percent of caregivers are women!]] That's always it: Here in Parliament, we obviously see only what causes us costs. Hiefor a lot of volunteering hours are being spent, for which family members often sacrifice themselves – and for my thanks to them. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] We agree that aging in dignity is an important issue, and it is becoming increasingly important. And we also agree that work in this area is important and good. What surprises me is that the opposition must at all request such a report and that it is not automatically sent to the political groups by the Ministry. That would be easy and a nice area of work for the Minister of Labour, so to speak, a confirmation of work in her ministry if the political groups were to be informed automatically and not to request a report, or if the opposition had to request a report – I am convinced that the government parties will receive this report automatically, only the opposition is forgotten. Of course, we agree with the resolution adopted in this report and welcome all the measures taken in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25912	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25933	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I think the hospice is the right answer we have to the active death aid, and we really have to do everything we can to ensure the best possible quality of life for those affected until the end. Here, too, the framework conditions need to be adapted, because many things do not fit: I believe – without us going into the depths of content now; some previous speakers have already mentioned it – that we really need to see that not only is now being expanded, but in many areas we also have to build up first. And I very much hope that this will not only be discussed in the medical field, but that it is also part of an overall care concept, because the Palliative Care is such an important part of a functioning overall concept that we must not see it again separately and treat it only in one committee. I am right for Mr Grünewald, who said that, for example, family support offers in the field of family hospice are not sufficient. I think of the good idea when we introduced the family hospice car – and that was true! We have once improved what the promotions are doing, but that was too little. It can also not always be based on goodwill to pay out of any support stop, because it is really a beggar for many families who have serious illness, for example cancer-sick children, so that they can make a family holiday. If there were not to be repeated intervention by the children's crabs and to provide financial resources, these families would not only be subject to psychological stress, but would also be financially very narrowed. I think that we have to get away from this ‘ alms! ’ Every day the newspapers are full of where anything can't be done again. That is why I say that there is a great need for action! I don't know the report yet. I am pleased that it will be sent to Parliament. I think the need for action can only be felt on the basis of facts and data, and that will certainly take us some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25977	The next speaker is Mrs Grander. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25998	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have five federal states that currently have pilot projects, and we have 40 hospice facilities that are working on improving quality – that is already true. So there are achievements, and I think here we have to raise up state of the art and see what still needs to be done. The funding has been addressed and it has been addressed that the mobile services have also been integrated – with us in the explosives in Tyrol this is already taken with us – and also the consiliar activity in hospitals; we have also enjoyed it. This is especially for the patient something that has a good effect, because you simply have a very individual on the person to be cared for – say: Dying – can enter. For the team meetings, we always brought someone out of the hospice and asked: How can we deal with this?, just so that these things can be brought in. There is the medical component, the social component and the nursing component. I think it is important that we continue to do so in line with the need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26030	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 599 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 78.) [[20:45:31]] 21. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 773/A(E) by Mr Silvia Fuhrmann, Mr Laura Rudas, Mr Rudas, on the direct payment of family aid to young adults from 18 January Year of life (556 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26086	We're going to the 21st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. As the first speaker, Mr Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26113	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! An open word: The government programme in the field of families has been completed. It was not a very extensive programme, because it is obvious that the ideological differences between these parties are so great. I'll tell you why. [[Abg. Steibl: You are probably too short family speakers to...!]] – Mrs. Colleague, please? – I like to listen to you! – Excellent, Mrs. Colleague! [[Abg. Steibl:...Law is just being prepared! We haven't done everything yet!]] I'm glad you're so busy. Nevertheless, I have to tell you that these two requests, which we are now discussing, are a signal that the government parties did not think very much, because otherwise there would have been no requests from the government parties in the family committee, so nothing at all. Let us look at these two proposals. When I heard: Payment of the family allowance directly to young people, I thought first of all, actually a good idea! Yeah, I said we should actually agree. Only when I saw how many open questions there are still – how does it look with the multiple-child supplement, the siblings and the child drop-off amount? –, I thought: If an opposition party does so, one can still accept it, but a government party should clarify it before and then submit the application. The next proposal we are dealing with, Mrs Steibl, is particularly interesting. Maybe I can take a brief look at this one. – The Minister for Family Affairs is asked to inform people about the offer from the Ministry of Family Affairs. [[Abg. Mandak: But this is the next request!]] . I know that is the next request, but I will talk briefly about it if you allow me to do so. [[Abg. Steibl:... not completely read...!]] – I read it very carefully, Mrs Steibl! So this request is really weak, because that would mean that the Minister of the Family has not complied with this commitment so far! And that's what you're doing to your own minister? – That is very, very weak, ladies and gentlemen! I would like the government parties to say what is going on in the family policy programme: It's still a lot to do. - Well, then do it! Then bring in applications that perhaps give a little more than asking the Minister of the Family to inform about the ministry's achievements! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There may be a few other points to be done, such as the fact that family benefits have lost a lot of value because they are not index-adapted. And the second question is that of the family tax division. That's what ÖVP once said: Family tax division, we absolutely want it! - No, it's not coming! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] This is not a family tax division, it is still an individual tax. I know you're also a tax expert – not only life, but also a tax expert. The example of France shows us that this argument that women are being forced home is not correct. The difference in the employment rate between men and women is lower in France than in Austria. Why? – A good model of the family tax division that has proven itself, and good childcare facilities! And that would be a way that we could go in Austria too, because in reality the family is also an economic community, so it should also be treated and assessed as an economic community. As regards family benefits: We have only recently talked about this automatic pension, for which ÖVP has been very strong; but the ÖVP as a family party does not support the promotion of family benefits. It is therefore necessary that the loss that has occurred for the families should finally be reintroduced. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to ask you very warmly to support this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26218	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26283	The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26304	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Hofer, if you say that you can create an opportunity to pay family aid directly to young people, that is nothing but how far you are away from young people and how difficult you are to understand their interests. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: I didn't say that!]] It is often the case that young people, whether they are teaching or studying, have to leave their parents' homes to be closer to their place of training, and many then do not have the opportunity to access the family support they receive for their maintenance. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: What about the multi-child supplement?]] Now I know, for example, Mr Mandak said in committee that it is a matter of course for parents to pass on family allowances to their children even if they themselves have to pay for their own housing if they themselves have to take care of the food. Only in most cases that is not the case! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] And I think that if the only way out of youth is to complain about their parents, that is a bad solution. [[Abg. Ing. Hofer: What about the child drop-off amount?]] And so, Mr Rudas and I, perhaps even a little closer to old age, have jointly made this request that the Minister should very quickly propose a solution to how to make a direct and automatic payment of family support for those young people who no longer live in the common budget with their parents. This not only shows that the state has the task of supporting young people as best as possible on its training course and of reaching out to them in difficult stages of life, but it also speaks of the trust that young people receive. And just and efficient handling of resources is such a sign of trust, so I am sorry that you do not agree with this concern. I believe that to get maintenance and support and to know or not to know a security of existence on the part of the state is already a huge difference! – We want to ensure that young people are best accompanied on their way of life, and having money at their disposal is always the first and the best starting requirement.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26393	The next speaker is Mrs Rudas. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26414	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Our colleague, Mr Fuhrmann, has already made a lot of progress. The Austrian high school and also most other youth organisations in Austria do not ask for the direct payment of family aid for nothing, and I, colleague Hofer, can give you an example: A friend of mine, who comes from Lower Austria, studies, but unfortunately she does not study what the father wants, nor where the father wants, and gets no support. Now, understandably, she doesn't want to complain to her own father, but I think that if she no longer lives in the common household, at least the family allowance is paid directly. There are 300 000 young people who are over 18 years of age and no longer live at home, who simply have the right to receive direct payment of the family allowance they are entitled to. Those parents who support their children anyway are not at all affected. It is quite clear that this does not “disturbed” the amount of family support and the promotion of multiple children. I don't know why you're suddenly being legalized. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] – I think the ministry is going to implement it properly. I trust the Minister that she will do so as quickly as possible, as unbureaucratically as possible, and in any case without financial disadvantages for the families. I am pleased that after many years the demand has finally come to this request, for it serves the independence of young people. And it is a call for young people, and this Parliament should also follow. That is why I would be pleased if you would consider it differently and yet agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26462	The next speaker is Mrs Zwerschitz. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26484	Madam President. Minister! Mrs Fuhrmann! I'm sorry. Even if you still wear it so much, you're not an 18 anymore with 27! So you're not so close to the target group you're talking about in this law. [[Abg. Rudas:... students!]] [[Abg. Steibl: And how old are you?]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And if you say it ten times more, it doesn't change that age doesn't necessarily have something to do with competence. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: This is crazy! Please!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] We like the law, too. – As I said, this is already possible, but it saves the parents transfer fees. But there are many other situations in which young people currently have to complain about their parents, and I would like to invite you from the large parties quite cordially that you also accept these areas. One of these is the study aid: Their calculation is based on what income parents have. If the young people do not have a good relationship with their parents, they must complain to the parents. Here, too, we have a complaint. Second story: It is reported that there are more and more young people who, when out of the family’s family’s age, are “herauskipping” when family conditions are bad. When these young people attend a higher school, they are often forced to go to work. That is to say, there are more and more young people who have to quit a five-year high school that can no longer do this last year because they are forced to work because they have to take care of themselves. – Even there would be only one action helpful and there you could consider what you can do in this regard. Even in the new law – which has already been spoken of today – it is about young people “falling around” the family allowance again, and it does not help them whether they get it directly or not. If young people no longer have to pay unemployment contributions and they are in a fixed service relationship – that is, they exceed a certain annual basis of assessment – then they will no longer receive family support in the future. They will not be so easy to change their service contracts in the short term, so I would like a solution here too. We are therefore always in favour of the independence of young people – of course there is support for this! And if you want to continue in this direction: Please, please! You still have a wide field of activity.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26563	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26586	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Family aid is one of the most proven, most important and valuable financial services to support families. As we know, the family allowance will be in principle up to the 18th century. ==References====External links==* Official website Year of life when vocational training or a study is carried out; and there is the increased family allowance for disabled children virtually unlimited. That is why this is an important achievement, and this important achievement, I think, can also be given as support to young people, especially if they are self-employed, if they have their own homes. We must also assume that over the last few years the worlds of young people have changed, and that politics here must also constantly improve and ask itself: How can we improve and develop the framework conditions for young people towards self-employment? – And whoever has to do with young people – and everyone has friends or their own children – he knows: If they want to buy their own home as a first step in independence, to rent it and so on, this is usually very, very difficult to finance. For this reason, the BZÖ youth has also created the further idea of a youth start-up fee, which is repayable as a non-profit-making state loan at the earliest after three years. [[Abg. Steibl: They get that... forced by the banks!]] This too is an opportunity to support youth on their way to self-determination. Of course, family aid is a first and important step, and therefore we will give this request our approval, but I am also very important that we really examine all possibilities for this system change, and above all that it is not at the expense of the families and the other children. I would also like to add a motion for a resolution, because the request of the government parties refers to the 18th century. There are young people, however, who are in training, such as apprentices and self-employed, although they live the 18th century. ==References====External links== In addition, we want the payment of the family aid to be done not every two months but monthly. Therefore, I make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26651	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26721	As next speaker, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky spoke. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26742	Madam President. Honourable Members! The primary objective of the Austrian youth policy is ultimately to provide young people with instruments for independent and self-responsible life. Children's and young people's policy in serious terms supports children and young people to take their place in the adult world. To become independent is a key concept for the understanding of youth and from a pedagogical perspective a central development task in the youth age. A significant step towards greater independence is surely the use of own money. The economy with money is another learning step. With this request I will examine whether direct payment of family aid to young adults of full age is possible. I can understand this very well, because with it young people reach a lot more autonomy. I should like to remind you that we are talking about a reduction in the voting age to 16 years. We strengthen young people to adopt decision-making structures at a very early stage and to face these challenges. In my opinion, however, this also means that, in addition to the duties, they can be subject to rights. I would also like to point out that young people 18 years of age have full business capacity. If the desire to pay child support directly to young people is now to be met, it should only be remembered that this will affect a number of other areas of justice. I am going to cause this subject to be analysed from tax, maintenance and constitutional points of view too, in order to avoid possible deterioration for families from the outset. I would also like to refer to the very essential project of e-financing, and I think that in this area in particular, the disbursement of family aid is clearly reformed. There is probably much more unbureaucratism about such direct payments. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] In any case, it must be taken into account that, with all the wishes to give young people more independence, there is no disadvantage for families by changing the classification of family allowances. Because of the current situation, I am convinced that there will be solutions, and I am pleased that we will take another step in the direction of enabling young people to live independently and to shape policies not for but for young people. This is an essential point, I think, that we all wish for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26809	The next item is the speech by Mr Pack. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26830	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has something completely The main point is: We are not talking about young people in the real sense, but about young women and men who may even have voted twice. That is why the decision we are making today to contribute to greater self-determination and sovereignty of youth is a correct one. This is what we owe them in some areas. In some families it works anyway. Where it does not work, we can help very well in this area and support the young people on their way to a truly independent life, for example in training. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what was very interesting in this debate, of course also in the Committee: Finally, everyone is for it, but everyone finds a problem somewhere. The fact is, I think, that: Except for the liberals, all parties agree. We have cut off a project that both the ÖVP and the SPÖ as well as probably the Greens and the BZÖ – not so long – have been calling for forever. Now we've done it. I think that's why we should end the dispute. Interesting – and Mrs Zwerschitz, please don't be angry with me now, I can't judge your age! – I think – and you are of course right in your statement – that you have said that age has nothing to do with competence, in the direction of Mrs Fuhrmann, who is 27 years old. [[Call the ÖVP:26!]] You have confirmed this statement: Age has nothing to do with competence, but some self-knowledge is also a knowledge.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26862	Next, Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. I would also like to speak for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26883	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course I also very much welcome the fact that with this proposal we are taking a significant step towards greater independence of young adults. Many good reasons for this have already been mentioned. I would like to take a brief look at the argument put forward by Mrs Haubner, who was a little at the age limit – 18 years old. In your request, honourable Member, you speak yourself of ‘young adults’. I think that's pretty much up to 18 years of age. I would say we decide once the 18 years and we see that as the first step. With regard to the limit of family allowances for students, the following points are added: I think we should look at that in the next step. We also intend to do so, because I think that there could be significant innovations that will bring relief. We cannot accept the request made by the Liberal Party, in which the French model of family division is called for. Our experts and Experts have precisely analysed the family division – the French model – and we have come to the conclusion – no more surprising – that the family division is a measure that promotes wealthy single-earner budgets. The French model in particular – and that was the surprise – benefits households in which there is a single earner with good income and no children – so really no model of family policy action!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26925	Mrs Fürntrath-Moretti's next speech. Madam honourable Member, you wished for one minute's speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26947	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I think, in principle, the parents paid their children – and children are still 26 years old – the family allowance. We are only concerned that those who have not been the case now also receive the family allowance. One reason for this is that no longer parents have adopted the proposal to allow children to automatically transfer the family allowance, which has also been included in the Committee, may have been the fears of families with several children in order to bypass the stage. I think, however, that Mrs. Kdolsky and our Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance are guarantees that this new regulation will not cause any harm. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26983	The next point is Mr Voller. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27004	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With this resolution available to us today and the expression of will already taken place in the Committee, young people who no longer live in a common household with their parents, the family allowance from 18 to 18 years of age. Direct payment of life will be an essential step in the right direction for a self-determined life of young people. Until now, the family allowance to them has been paid only under certain conditions, such as for orphans or children whose parents neglect the maintenance obligations. Otherwise, the payment was generally made to the parents. Since this desired future change is intended to pay this benefit to the eligible young people who do not live in the parents' home and therefore also a substantial change in the system, it is also necessary, as you mentioned earlier, to examine possible effects in terms of constitutional and fiscal matters. No one wants in the good faith to create an improvement for young people later realize that this change has led to a deterioration in the financial situation for young people, but also for families. At the same time, it would be important not to attach this scheme to the main residence notification, as this will lead to a trend towards a residence notification which is already being made. For example, there are students who register their headquarters where the universities are located – a situation that would be particularly detrimental to rural areas. Therefore, we do not want rapid shots from the hip, but rather a government template in which all aspects are taken into account. Mrs. Minister! I would ask you to support this request as best as possible and to submit a draft to Parliament as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27050	Mr Einwallner. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. 1 minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27071	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! In summary, a great initiative by the young speakers of the two major government parties – in particular Silvia Fuhrmann – is that there has been an improvement for 300,000 young people and a further step has been taken in the right direction. Thank you too, Mrs Minister, for supporting this and for having it checked. This, of course, speaks for the People's Party that improvements are being made and that is immediately being started. On the other hand, the Vice-Participant of the Freedom Party, who speaks of “Hush-Push-Law” in the Committee. – Mr Hofer is not present, but you can only say: Explain to the young voters in Tyrol that they call such initiatives “Hush-Push”! Sage Please do so there to the young voters, because then they know that you are not the right contact person for them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] I think that we not only called for a great initiative, but now we also make law. The Freedom Party will have to say goodbye to the young voters in the future if you do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27113	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 556 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 79.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues on strengthening Austrian families by adjusting the index of family benefits and introducing a family tax division model. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Haubner and colleagues on direct monthly payment of family aid to young adults living independently. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. [[21:14:53]] 22. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 774/A(E) by Mr Ridi Steibl, Mr Mag. Andrea Kuntzl, colleagues on information from the Federal Ministry of Health, Family and Youth to support in the diverse situations of life (557 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27202	We're now on the 22nd grade. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Mandak is speaking. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27229	Madam President. High house! We are dealing with a very curious request, which has also been dealt with at this family committee meeting, which has already been discussed today. This is one of the few applications that have been decided there, because it is a government request. That is why he is curious because he has a very peculiar application text. I'll read you a few parts of it: “The Federal Minister for Health, Family and Youth is asked to inform about the forms of advice offered or supported by the resort for the various situations of life (parenting, family advice, family and work compatibility) (...).” – So an interesting request! The compatibility of family and profession is apparently not a “various situation” because it is further cited below. When I read the request, I thought: What do they want – exactly! –, what does that tell us? [[Call the SPÖ: What does that tell us?]] I thought that this is actually a typical opposition proposal, if he is written down something that is almost saying the Minister is doing nothing, which should finally do something, there is an urgent need for action. Then I thought it would be great if our government parties suddenly became critical of government, looked at the work of their own government and acted critically against it. But I know you too well, and it was already clear that this will not be the case. Then, in the discussion in the Family Committee, it turned out that it is likely that a campaign is planned and that the legitimacy is needed to use even more funding for this. We are convinced that the Minister of Finance no longer needs funding. In 2007, as we have heard in the answer to a request from my colleague Karl Oellinger, she spent € 1 million on information work and public relations in the area of family and youth. - We think that's enough. Mrs. Minister! Please inform, clarify, but within the framework of the budget you have had so far! That's enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27269	Mrs Steibl is now speaking. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27290	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. To speak positively about family policy is to benefit families and is often necessary to the beggar on the part of the opposition. Especially mothers and fathers do not pick up information until, for example, a child comes when there are educational problems or children have problems with education. To present family policies positively and make positive awareness is therefore nothing negative, I think, and nothing ridiculous at all. In this context, I would simply like to point out once again how many measures have been taken in relation to family policy in this government with our Federal Minister, whether it be the flexible childcare allowance, which is accepted positively, whether it be the means of change for parents in child care, whether it be the threefolding of the credit threshold in the grant to the child care allowance, or the increase of the siblings in the family allowance – it is not spoken of by most in the opposition! – Whether it be the family allowance for young people seeking employment with low incomes, for example, it is also the € 15 million for childcare provided by the Federal Government for the next three years, whether it is also the tax-free minimum of living for careless family members who are constantly criticized by the FPÖ, but where we are responsible, whether it is also the approach of tax deductibility of childcare in the families. I would also like to highlight the positive work of over 393 family advisory services, which receive € 11.6 million, or the parent education, which is still a taboo theme for most, but which is an important instrument for strengthening parental competence. One must also say here in Parliament, here in plenary, that it is worth talking about families and family measures, and that it is worth investing in children, because children are our future. Our family minister, Dr. Andrea Kdolsky, is working for this country, for mothers and for fathers. Take note of this, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27333	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27355	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Ridi Steibl, which I take note of, is a single embarrassing request. I take note of that. And I quote from this request, so that everyone can hear what's inside: Mrs Steibl and Mrs Kuntzl really thought of something "great": “The Federal Minister” “is asked to inform about the forms of advice for the different situations of life” offered by the section so that “all those seeking advice and assistance can be reached” and help can also be ‘respectively used’. These are the “great approaches” of the coalition not to overwhelm embarrassment: empty, completely visionless! And that's what you want to sell as a big family policy performance? So if the family policy is, please pack up and stop! Family party you haven't been a long time, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Abg. Neugebauer: Extensive Information Order!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] [[Abg. Steibl: The path of freedom is not optimal either!]] The same committee, Mrs Colleague, has not even been discussed in any way in terms of sustainability and future-orientedness. This was, for example, a request for a deadline solution and abortion: measures to regulate and formulate the previous medical advice. – It was a request concerning the extension of the mother-child passport for examinations up to the tenth year of life. Among other things, it was a request to strengthen fatherly union and so on and so on. These applications were simply postponed. They didn't want to discuss. They're not about discussing at all. They're making a big discussion, and if we have to experience this until the end of the coalition, then it's really better, we're gonna pack up and stop and choose again. This is a embarrassment in red and black, which you offer here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I will tell you where the problems really lie in Austria, Mrs Kuntzl, Mrs Steibl. [[Abg. Steibl: You know that!]] There would be approaches wherever you could go with us. These would be real approaches to solving problems. First of all, the structure of our entire social system is designed to reward singles and punish families. We have already heard the request from the Freedom Party before, where it is a question of finally setting aside individual taxation and replacing it with family taxation. And if Mrs Kuntzl, with all the violence, wants to find out what's bad about it, because the French example brings so much negative, then she also said something: In France, we have had birth rates in France, which are now higher than 1.1 percent as in Austria. [[Abg. Steibl: But you already know that France and Austria cannot be combined with the tax system!]] There are birth rates in France that allow for popular preservation. That's fact, Mrs. Colleague! - Point one. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Next is the pension system. They're thinking big about a pension automatic. You no longer need to calculate computer models! If we don't have children anymore, we don't have to charge pensions anymore! That's where you pack up and stop! – That is, these two essential points already show that you are not at all ready to discuss seriously. Next: The family-political discourse in the last three years is only being conducted in any way about women's work, the compatibility of work and family and the question of crimps. [[Abg. Steibl: Is also necessary!]] That means you think only more in labour market useful categories. You are no longer concerned with helping the family, it is no longer about helping the families in their struggle for survival, where you really have to see every day that you can survive the descent that you have to experience financially today. There is no point in saying that the family in itself is a great value – an extraordinary value! – the family as a place of rest for the children, a basis of value and security for all the people who are in it. – This is also a point that is discussed, and not about your empty phrases! [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: What is family for you?]] You want families, you want mothers, you want children, you want to redefine everything. I know you want to define for so long – also her from the black party! – that nothing remains to define it until the end. There's nothing left if there's no children left. Unfortunately, that is also the fact of God. And your icons today are the single parents and the broken family. These are your icons! They no longer want the classical family, where a hort of peace and the future is really given. That's also a fact. And then to the point abortion: We have discussed in the Family Committee that it is urgently necessary to finally get figures from Austria, as the actual situation in Austria looks like: How many abortions are there really? - You don't want that! You don't want to hear the problem at all. They want to put them under the table and pretend that abortion is not a problem. But she's the problem! [[Call the SPÖ: For you!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You're really bad!]] 60,000 to 80,000 abortions per year prove that there is a huge problem. And you just don't want to hear this problem. They even want to ban statistics. And that's the real problem with you. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You are a terrible sectarian!]] If you're talking about consultation, I'm saying, All right, let's talk about consultation, Mrs Steibl. Then we talk about the need to teach our youth respect for life. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That would also be a family policy consultation. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's incredible what you give of yourself!]] That we have responsibility towards the other people and the partner would also be an issue for advice. That marriage as a germ cell is there for the state, that would also be a point of advice. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Get out on an island!]] But what are you doing? – They spend billions of euros on the fact that we have thousands of immigrants each year. [[Abg. Steibl: Immigrants also have children!]] That's where tax money is powdered with all force. With mass immigration, you want to make us know how to solve this family-political problem. It's white madness! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Unbearable! You're the white madness!]] These are the truths. You need to discuss these points! And then you could honestly say in the coalition: That would be approaches where we can do something! For Austrian families it becomes more difficult every day. We have no chance of continuing with this chaotic family policy. [[Abg. Steibl: The word “chaotic”...!]] Those who start a family in Austria today must be a true hero in this family policy of ÖVP and SPÖ. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The “true hero”!]] In the long run, that's the folk death you're going to introduce here. Her family policy is a history of betrayal to families in Austria. Unfortunately God is! Stop it! Make the way to new elections so that, at last, right family policy can be made in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27619	Now comes Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27657	Madam President. It's hard, Mr. Cot. I find it difficult to answer the bulge that was just poured out in two minutes, in half an objective way. I'll try to pick up the threads where a little bit of a material background. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: The protection of life is already important!]] First of all, on the many requests made in the Family Committee: Mr Klement, I understand when you say that there is no enthusiasm for the opposition when requests are postponed. But that your requests have not been discussed, I do not blame the Family Committee! Every single request has been discussed! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steibl: As long as you want!]] And you also had the opportunity! It is also very important for us to have each of your requests on the agenda. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] To your family term: It is not about the sole educator being the icon, Mr Klement, who – what have you said? – Fraged family! That's not an icon either! It is, however, in contrast to you, Mr Klement, that we are dealing with the reality in which people live, and we are not saying: I have an ideal of father-mother-child-family, and who does not match that, that's broken up, that – what did you say? – does not serve popular preservation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klement.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's incredible!]] I do not want to think about where this term comes from, Mr Klement. And as far as France is concerned: Mr Klement, let us once again discuss France. The second part I couldn't say before is the following: In France, birth rates are not better than we are due to the tax system, but in France they are better due to the second pillar, which is because of the well-developed childcare system that is being developed in France. Talk about it! Look at this! That would be rewarding, Mr Klement. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The proposal we are dealing with here has been achieved, among other things, because there have been terrible cases of abuse and violence to children in Austria. That's what we said: It is important that the population is informed about offers where to advise and inform. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27759	It is now Mrs Haubner's speech. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27780	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! For a very simple reason, we have been discussing this request for a very long time in the Committee, because it is so incredible because it gives a significant picture of the work of this government. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Is excellent!]] Don't we have any trouble asking a minister to inform her? Don't be angry with me. A minister has to be informed that she does not need a call and no legitimacy from Parliament! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: She needed millions to do this!]] That is why, if Mrs Steibl says that Mrs Minister works so pointedly, I say: Okay, then she'll have to inform you about it! This request is a sham application, an alibi proposal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] – Dear colleague Steibl! This request is so unfortunate! It's been almost a pity around the time that we've been discussing there for so long. We've never had anything like that before! We have had to use a lot of time for this. I am in favour of being informed, but so that it is also cross-cutting that it is connected that the citizens, especially the families, have some of it. [[Abg. Parnigoni: It all happens!]] Finally, it is about really bringing together this wide range of advisory services and saying: What is there in a federal country? How do families get their support and advice? This is not just a minister in her immediate field. - That would have been a task. Another task: How will the advisory bodies be financially insured in the future and what funding is available? Or what about the training of the local consultants? These are all the questions that could have been put into a request, but it is not possible to abuse Parliament's right to legitimise a campaign. We are not available for this. That is why we have tabled the following request. [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27891	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27954	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27976	Madam President. Honourable Members! Family is where children are. I believe that once we consider this fundamental issue to be such, it is also very easy for us to see that there are different family concepts. I think it's quite clear that the concept of the family in the 21st century. ==References====External links== I do not believe that it is particularly good if the policy, the framework conditions, here is a family structure that strives to put the child's well-being in the foreground and perhaps does not correspond to an ideal family structure as you feel it is. In the end, it is not about the family structure, but about the children. And the children are to be protected. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] As a family minister, it is very essential to support parental education. And parental education offers are carried out by educational institutions and family organisations, such as parents' children's centres, in many other regional initiatives participating and need-oriented. There is a lot of local information and information. I think that the integration of information networks is already to a great extent significant. The diversity of topics is large and is always oriented at the development phases of children, but also at the development phases of a society. In recent months, we have seen how important it has become to change, adapt and adapt information to the needs of each individual country. For the financial years 2007 and 2008, I raised the budget. Don't worry, I don't need to legitimise campaigns, because campaigns are implemented accordingly within the budget of the resort, and they have also been implemented in the appropriate way. That is why I assume that this was not the intention of the application. At least that can't be read from it. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you will probably have ordered the application!]] I think that the essential thing is to transport the content here and also to provide the parents with this information. The offer is a comprehensive one, it is a viable one – and it is sometimes forgotten – and it is primarily a matter of offering a low level offer, because it is intended to reach all fathers and mothers of all levels of education – and that is also an essential factor. In recent years, more than 92 000 parents have been reached by children of all stages of development. In this calendar year, the focus has been on ‘company parenting’. I believe that this is also a very essential factor. It is also important to inform parents about the importance of parenting. Several seminars, websites, information, brochures have been made available as information campaigns for a long time, in order to arrive at the population in the end multimedia with new technologies and also to present the content offered. I also believe that the quality seal for training courses for parents is an essential factor. It has been addressed the training of those who work in this area. This also concerns quality parenting and the creation of comparable standards. Here we are on a good path, and here we are increasingly expanding for Austria. 470 000 annual consultations in 390 institutions in Austria show us how important this is. Multi-professional teams work in this area. I think it is also a matter of mentioning this dim access. ==References====External links== April 2008 – together with the ORF, we raised the “ORF parent phone” from baptism. There parents receive assistance in acute situations through competent consultants similar to their predecessors or the same-named child assistance telephone. I think that's essential. It's not about legitimizing campaigns. It is not about the question that too little is done in the information. But it is certain that we still have to do much more for the children in the families in Austria. We will do this step by step. An extensive family package was adopted by this government in 2007. The next steps – youth welfare and information and quality standards – are on their way. I think we are doing a very good joint work here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28034	Now comes Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28056	Madam President. Estimated Federal Minister! High house! The Minister has just referred to it: In the core, it is about finding the right measure. What's the right measure? From my point of view, it's like this: The more complicated the globalized world becomes, the more information we need, the more help it becomes for all those who no longer find themselves in this world. I want to calm you down and say what we certainly don't want. We certainly don't want a self-provoking action by our minister, but as I know Mrs. Kdolsky, she doesn't intend to do that either. We do not want to waste tax money on new actions, and we do not want a new two-class company. Mr Klement, I do not fully understand how to block itself against information. Because then, if they don't have secure access to the Internet, the information itself can no longer be provided, a two-class society emerges between those who can help themselves and those who need information that can't begin with this complicated official information. There are many fields of action, for example: How can we motivate people to live healthierly? If we succeed and the more prevention is forced, the more money we can save in the fight against disease. What does that mean? – Every euro placed in prevention, in information, in prevention is the best investment, and the Austrians have a right to that. In this sense, I am looking forward to good information from the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28098	Mrs Binder-Maier's next speech. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28119	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This motion for a resolution refers to the diversity, the diversity of the different forms of life that are real, but obviously have no place in some worlds where tightness exists. In order to address this diversity, it is sometimes necessary to provide assistance, support and information, which we believe must be very quick, very efficient, very simple and easy. It is therefore necessary for information and advice facilities to be better networked above all, including across countries, so that this assistance, this support actually comes to the woman and to the man. This additional information, however, no longer means advertising, does not mean campaigns. Finally, the many advisory services, around 390 in Austria, work excellently, very competently, and the employees have to be thanked. Coping with the concerns or problems is often very difficult. It is mainly a matter of obtaining information, support and assistance in the case of problems of partnership, education, violence in the family. It is also about the compatibility of work and family. And it is also about equality between women – I think this goal has not yet been achieved. The causes are, on the one hand, the financial dependence on women, on the other in the gender-specific division of work. Women often have tremendous efforts and hardships to cope with their own lives and lives of their children. We must take into account these changed conditions, this changed family picture. This means, on the one hand, consulting and information as a supporting instrument, but at the same time we need additional, new legal provisions and measures, which will then provide the real guide to a more Partnership, equality and equality are.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28159	Mrs Hellererer is now speaking. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28180	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are 390 family and partner consulting services, we have heard several times today. I would like to ask you: Do you know where your nearest family counseling office is? I'm sure that's what I really know. You are, however, opinion-makers, you are the ones who should provide information if you are asked if there are help seekers who are looking for you, but you yourself are least prepared for such questions, if you do not know exactly where these advice agencies are and who is doing the most competent work there. There is a family service, an information centre in the Federal Ministry, where everything around the child and around the related family services is transported. Did you know that, ladies and gentlemen? I'm sure not everyone knew that, I say very carefully. And there are a lot of other measures, other advisory services, information centres in our countries, which, of course, offer all the services offered in this area free of charge and at any time. But knowing that doesn't all of us do that. That is why it is so important for us to hold this debate here in the National Council today. This is not even about the request, but about the fact that we are discussing these services, about these offers here in the National Council, so that perhaps everyone will all deal with what is offered in family services in our federal territory and in our federal states. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not about legitimizing a campaign, but about bringing the offers that are available to those people who are seeking help that need information as low as possible. For this very reason, this proposal has been put forward: In order to assist the Federal Minister in her efforts to pass on the knowledge of the best family benefits that have experienced the highest recognition across Europe to the people she really needs. And I am already saying thank you for this – not only for the success of making this request, but also for the fact that our family minister is doing best work in this way.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28222	Mr Praßl has now come to speak. 1 minute desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28244	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Young parents are very grateful to be able to use such institutions. I also believe that these 390 advisory bodies of the various support organisations have one goal: to advise the parents accordingly, to protect and to benefit our children. I also believe that certain fields of action will be beneficial. Mrs Bundesminister, you said that 92 000 parents have taken advantage of this. That's what we're seeing is that we're completely right. I would like to quote once again Mr Klement: Heroes – I am also a hero, I am a father and I have three children together with my wife, but I do not call myself a hero, but a prerequisite is quite easy to say to the family. [[Complementary of the Abg. Steibl]] I like to do this and I like to be a family father. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28285	Mrs Eder-Gitschthaler has now come to speak. 2 minutes desired time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28306	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Klement, I am pleased that men are also concerned about this subject, after all, it concerns us all. We are all parents, fathers and mothers, men and women. But what is right and what is important will not determine you, but we will all determine that together. And that's why I can join my colleague Kuntzl: It is already very difficult to become a man of dirt, and that does not actually correspond to the dignity of this House. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] And another one, Mr. Klement: Ask your colleague – unfortunately you don't have so many at the FPÖ – how women with a three- and four-fold load are going on every day! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klement]] Just briefly to the basic – we have heard a lot today –: We have many dedicated ladies and gentlemen in Austria. We have around 390 family advisory services, 170 support organisations, 500 000 consulting sessions have been held, and 11.6 million € from the family ministry budget are available. Thank you very much, Mrs Federal Minister, for that! It is therefore only important and right that we now work to ensure that there is a sustainable and comprehensive offer. I can only ask all of you to support this request so that we can bring all the information together and offer it down. Target groups are supposed to be young families, who usually only collect information when they are specifically affected – and unfortunately usually too late, we have already heard this today. This is why it is important to offer targeted assistance here, trainings et cetera. And that's why we're here, that's why we're discussing, that's why we're making the mood. It is a very good idea, and I can only ask you to accept this request. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28362	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 557 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 80.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ursula Haubner, colleagues in the field of better cross-responsible networking in the family sector, as well as greater involvement of countries in support in the various situations of life. Whoever gives this motion for a resolution, I would like to ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[21:52:01]] 23. Point Report by the Public Prosecutor's Committee on Requests 734/A(E) by Mr Otto Pendl, Mr Barbara Riener, Mr Mag. Ewald Stadler, Mag. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl, Mag. Gernot Darmann, colleagues in support of the application of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the Headquarters of the General Secretariat of the International Ombudsman Institute in Vienna (602 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28446	We're now going to the 23rd grade. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Pendl. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28473	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs. Volksanwälten! Mrs. Ministerial Council! A wonderful topic, I believe, even now at an advanced hour: a five-party request. Let me, however, first of all thank our People's Procuratorate, the Volksanwälten and the Volksanwalt as well as the employees for their work! [[in the direction of the Volksanwälten Dr. Fekter and Mag. Stoisits]] [[Complaints and bravaders with SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as congratulations with Green and FPÖ Members.]] We are proud of you, I say quite openly. I congratulate you and thank you – you have made a wonderful application, and I think we are all really happy if Vienna is the seat of the international secretary-general of the I.O.I. would be. That in 1977 seven public prosecutors or Ombudsman institutions in the I.O.I. were and are now 129, which shows how important this institution is. And I think our citizens are just like we are very proud of you. I wish us a lot of success together. I believe that our country, our Republic and our Federal Capital would be proud if, in addition to the already established international institutions, this General Secretariat would also come to Vienna. I wish us all the best together!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28516	Mrs Riener is now speaking. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28537	Madam President. Fathers of the People's Party! Dear staff! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is not only the heart of Europe, but, as my colleague Otto Pendlshon has said, also the seat of numerous international organisations. And so Austria offers itself directly as a new seat of the General Secretariat of the International Ombudsman Institute. I believe that how much international recognition Austria can get through it is clear to everyone, and I can only support this application. The Commission's Preparations were really excellent – we got the documents –: It's well planned whether it's about the premises, whether it's about budgetary organization, whether it's about the homepage that needs to be secured in the longer term. Overall, I can only congratulate and thank you very much for the great preparation. This five-party request also proves that, in fact, all the parties here in the House are carrying this project, and I would also like to express my extra thanks to the staff, because in the end they are the ones that will have to deal with this General Secretariat in the future. Dr. Kostelka already proves, as European President of the I.O.I., that he has the contacts and that he has ultimately contributed much to the fact that Austria can also seriously carry out this application. Now it's just saying more: Keep your chances! We did everything. I'm asking you to push the thumbs.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28579	Mr Zinggl. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28601	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a five-party request, we heard it. We also hope that Vienna will have the seat of the General Secretariat. However, I have already mentioned this in the Committee: In fact, this requires a kind of model function, especially in respect of respect for human rights. And the report by amnesty international, presented in recent weeks, does not really give a good witness to Austria. In particular, it criticises the terms and conditions of detention: Arrest takes too long, the conditions are illegal, disproportionate, there are abuses, the sick are taken into custody, traumatized are taken into custody, minors are taken into custody. And the UN Human Rights Committee also criticises Austria for making much too mild judgments in connection with caused deaths and abuses in prison. What has actually become of the UN Convention to include the ban on torture in criminal law? – There are still no paragraphs in this direction. I therefore very much hope that this seat – if we get it – is a call to push Austria a little bit here and actually include these paragraphs in the criminal law. And I hope that the People's Procuratorate will actually watch over the observance of this torture section, because only the People's Procuratorate, ladies and gentlemen, is the corresponding independent body that can afford it at all. Only the People's Procuratorate is solely responsible to Parliament and could, accordingly, as an advisory body and as a think tank in connection with the protection of human rights, do something that all other institutions can hardly afford. And only then, in my opinion, does it make sense for Austria and Vienna to receive this General Secretariat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28631	Now comes Mr Mag. Stadler. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28661	Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, a few words about what Mr Zinggl said: If the People's Procuratorate, what I hope to do, gets the central task after the anti-torture convention – and that makes sense; one should not invent to existing proven institutions five more that then only cost money – then one should also say that the People's Procuratorate is not only a control body, one of the highest control bodies in the Republic, but also a soft-law legal protection body, which should be more equipped with legal protection possibilities or with bites. That is to say, one should talk about it – once and for all – whether the instrument with which the public prosecutor can act should be extended, whether the possibility of legal protection for citizens should be strengthened as a legal protection body for the public prosecutor. This is a buy-in which, I believe, would be worthwhile enough to be employed by all the political groups in this House. But that's not what it's all about today. Today it is about whether we are continuing a proven policy that dates back to the 1970s – Bruno Kreisky and his international conference center – also in the area of the Ombudsman institution, yes or no. And I think that's incontrovertible: All the political groups have tabled this request. All the political groups voted in committee. All the political groups, I believe, will also vote unanimously in favour of this motion for a resolution today. Ladies and gentlemen, we enjoy as part of the I.O.I. great international reputation. It has already been said: Mr Kostelka is Chairman of the European Region within the I.O.I. So this is not its own Presidential office, but it was divided into regions, and it holds the Presidency in the European area, and in 2006 it organized a truly good, well-respected conference together with the former members of the People's Procuratorate. If you decide today, however, you must also say that you decide: the corresponding budgetary security – which must be guaranteed – must be the corresponding security with service posts – and that must be guaranteed – and I say now: Those who have looked at this application must also decide that in Austria we also approve of the privileges of the Federal Law on the NGOs, on the non-governmental organizations. So we won't be able to do it in such a way that we can do the I.O.I. to host an international association with us, but not to grant him the privileges of international organizations. I have read that the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs – I do not know what she is now called; I call her Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the EU is still enough for me – has promised that this should be the case. You should just, I think, know that this is a central point, too. The Federal President supports the application, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs supports her, the Federal Government as a whole supports her, the Mayor of Vienna supports her. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl, who's on her way to her seat.]] Mrs Ridi Steibl, I welcome you. What do you have to say? - Look! [[Abg. Steibl: A very rare matter!]] That's why you sit down and enjoy the moments that are rare! [[Abg. Steibl: (turning around and heading toward one of the rear hall exits) I have to go right away!]] No, that's not fair now! Now you've just been happy about me – and she's going back! That's so short I'm making you happy. That's unfortunate. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The President of the Federal Republic of Germany supports the matter, including the Mayor of Vienna,... [[Abg. Steibl stands next to one of the hall exits.]] Well, do you still have a good time with me, Mrs. Steibl? [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Steibl leaves the meeting room.]] Now she's going out! Shame! . I hope you will be back in the vote; we are very much in favour of your approval, Mrs Steibl! The application could fail if it reads in the Minutes: ‘Steibl not present’. That would, of course, be a terrible drama. Back to the serious. – This issue is of enormous importance to the public prosecutor’s office and to its further development. We will now apply for a limited period of eight years. And if we show that Austria is serious with the support of this I.O.I., then I think we will be able to permanently accommodate this institution in Austria for the future. That is why I am pleased that this will be a unanimous vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28746	Now comes Mr Mag. Darmann speaking. Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28767	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Representatives of the People's Procuratorate! Of course, the BZÖ, as has already been said in advance and now is no longer a great surprise, will support this five-party application and thus also support the application of the public prosecutor's office around the seat of the General Secretariat. The basis of this decision was, of course, also for the BZÖ the high qualification of our public prosecutorship in Austria. While the International Ombudsman Institute has more than 30 years of experience in the area of democracy strengthening, human rights strengthening and administrative control, even a year earlier, in 1977, the Public Prosecutor's Office has been “seeing the world” and since then made a lot of positive in the areas mentioned for the Republic of Austria. These points, the excellent experience of our People's Procuratorate and the excellent work of the People's Procuratorate also in the recent past, are for us a prerequisite for the high qualification for applying for this seat of the General Secretariat. I wish us and above all the People's Procuratorate for this application all the best!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28797	Mr Schopf. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Preferred speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28819	Madam President. Dear Advocate! [[Call the ÖVP: Volksanwälten!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said: The relevant International Institute, the General Secretariat currently established in Canada, is now 30 years old, and I think it is a very important institution. It is a roof organisation of all national and regional Ombudsman institutions. After all, 129 states are represented in this institute. In the end, the task and objective of this Institute is to promote a more qualified knowledge-raising process, but also to ensure the exchange of information among the countries concerned. But of particular importance is, thinking is that one also tries to be active in democracy, to strengthen democracies and, above all, to strengthen human rights. Ladies and gentlemen! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that it should also be mentioned that the activity of the Austrian public prosecutor is an important one: Many citizens only get the possibility of their right, that their interests are actually enforced by the public prosecutors. Some time ago, Austria presented itself here in Parliament at a very important event – it was in June 2006 when the Conference of European Ombudsmen took place – not only as a candidate, but as a country where one knows that the work here is certainly done properly and correctly. There were 140 members from 45 countries present. The conference was very good in terms of content and organisation, and this event also brought great importance at international level. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the application is important, it is right. We have good chances that the seat of the General Secretariat from Canada will come to Austria in the near future, to Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28852	Mrs Stadler is now speaking. Preferred speaking time: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28874	Madam President. Appreciate People's Lawyers! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The chairman of our committee, Mr Stadler, has described the application in great detail and has also described in detail all the necessary measures. That is why I must say a final word. I believe that the common interest and this signal that we are putting together in Parliament, this motion for a resolution on the location of the General Secretariat, will strengthen our public prosecutors internationally, and they will also be a great opportunity to develop our People's Procuratorate. I would like to thank everyone, especially the folk lawyers, who have worked to ensure that we have a very professional application here. And I think that this closeness of all the parties to this House will also be decisive in this decision for Austria to receive the award.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28901	Mrs Maij-Weggen has now come to terms with a desired speaking time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28922	Madam President. Dear People's Lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen! With the establishment of the People's Procuratorate in Austria began a success story, which has now been more than three decades old. This is the case in the In a modern democracy, this institution is an indispensable necessity, and according to the federal constitution it is also independent. The public prosecutorship is dealing with the concerns and problems of the population in our country. Therefore, the ombudsmen and the Ombudsman repeatedly communicate between citizens. The Public Prosecutorship exercises public control in the service of the rule of law and democracy and refers not only to the law enforcement, but also to the impact of the laws. As we could see from the report of the People's Procuratorate, there were numerous suggestions for the legislators such as the National Council or the Landtag. This also makes an important contribution to the further development of the law. At this point I do not want to miss it, you, my Ladies of the People's Procuratorate, and also Mr. Volksanwalt, as well as your staff, thank you very much for your work in the service of the citizens. In 1978, the International Ombudsman Institute, I.O.I., was established as an autonomous, over-party and worldwide institution. The I.O.I. is the umbrella organisation of all national and regional Ombudsman institutions. Currently 129 countries are members of this umbrella organisation. I would like to point out the importance of Austria in a successful application for the seat of the General Secretariat of the International Ombudsman Institute. It speaks a lot for Vienna that another worldwide organization is located here for at least eight years. In this sense, I wish the People's Procuratorate every good and good success in their efforts to bring the headquarters of the International Ombudsman Institute to Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28974	Mr Praßl is now speaking. 1 minute desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28995	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Austria is blessed with international institutions – and this is what we do very well. With the establishment of this General Secretariat, Austria and the city of Vienna also become richer around an institution. All the political groups are in favour of this, they will also demonstrate and decide. The People's Procuratorate, ladies and gentlemen, is grateful for their efforts. In this sense, I wish everything good for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29022	Next speaker: Mr Zweytick. Also 1 minute desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29044	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! My venerations Ladies of the People's Procuratorate! It has actually been said by my previous speakers. I can only agree to this: Of course, we wish the Austrian application much success. The progress of the People's Procuratorate on this – and I would like to mention it again – has been excellent. The present five-party resolution request also provides a strong political signal from Austria. I often wish myself such a closeness, a five-party decision, close the speech and wish toi, toi, toi! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29073	No one has spoken about this anymore. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the 602 committee report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 81.) Thank you. I too congratulate the People's Procuratorate, and we all wish ourselves much success. [[General condolences.]] [[22:13:48]] 24. Point First reading: Request by Mrs Herbert Scheibner, colleague and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Rules of Procedure Act 1975 (682/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29134	We arrive at the 24th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Scheibner, as an applicant, will be given the floor. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29162	Madam President. I'm going to take a short time. We hope that the Committee will have the opportunity to discuss this matter in greater detail, and perhaps, Mr Jarolim, we should never give up hope – even in your view not that it will be even better – then there will even be a vote on an opposition request. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Is that the farewell speech?]] These individual amendments have become necessary because the coalition, as in many other cases, could not agree on a fundamental reorganisation of the Rules of Procedure and we had to conclude the Committee on the Rules of Procedure without results. This is about the fact that the Federal Government, as you know, can withdraw or amend its proposals until the start of the vote in the committee. This has always been interpreted restrictively in the past and therefore a change in the Rules of Procedure was not necessary, but in the recent past already. This federal government has managed – we had another example today at the beginning of the debate – to interpret this very comprehensively and to be approved by the Bureau. It was particularly striking in the Health Care Act 2007 that, in the short term, the government template was completely amended – shortly before the Committee’s treatments – and that a proper review was no longer possible here. In the future, if this continues to happen, for example, we will only get into Parliament in the face of budget accompanying laws that are very bad “trading missiles” and then the government will bring in their amendments in the short term. That should not be; therefore, here again, in a part of the Rules of Procedure, a proposal for an amendment from us, which is really working and interpreting restrictively, and that an amendment can only be directly linked to the draft law already presented in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29201	Mr Pendl is now speaking. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29223	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Questions of Rules of Procedure, Mr Scheibner, are always interesting; that is nothing new. However, I believe that it is important for us to clarify some of the questions that we have always articulated together – always different but together – whether the control rights or minority rights. Of course, all these questions are important – including what you have just done – that we discuss them in detail together in a committee and see that, for us parliamentarians, we look very easily at our own position here in the house, so to speak, positive. Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. After a long break, last Friday's swing came in. So we were informed of the first positive result that tomorrow, I think, we have premiere. So I wish us an interesting question now for tomorrow. I am delighted and hope that we, all the parties in common, will debate these issues which we all know internally and externally, very offensively and positively in the Committee and ultimately come to a solution. Thank you. I wish you a nice evening and a good ride home.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29256	Mrs. Dr. Karl is now speaking. 1 minute desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29277	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The application here is actually related to an event law. Many examples can be seen in the fact that such event laws are little targeting. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's good!]] One of these examples is the redefinition of Question Time, which has already been addressed by my previous speaker. We from the ÖVP have put forward a concrete proposal in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for the recovery of Question Time. Unfortunately, our proposal was rejected first by the other parties. However, it will not only be taken up in terms of content, and we will also be confirmed that amendments to the Rules of Procedure are not at all necessary, but rather that a presidential decision is sufficient. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] If we had agreed to the ad hoc proposal by some Members in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and if we had amended the Rules of Procedure immediately, then tomorrow Question Time would not have been possible in this form. Rather, it would have been a victim of an event legislation. I am very pleased that we have been able to prevent this and that tomorrow we will experience a lively holding of Question Time. I hope that this new concept of Question Time, as it will take place for the first time tomorrow, will prevail and that it will actually come to an increase in Question Time. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't believe that!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29340	Mr Brosz is now speaking. 3 minutes desired speaking time; Total residence time would be 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29362	Madam President. I am honestly a little speechless after this speech by Mr Karl. That's really inconceivable! [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] I mean, it's got to be broken on the tongue. There is a Committee on the Rules of Procedure, there are four political groups that have agreed on an amendment to Question Time; in fact, there were five political groups, but Mrs Karl apparently did not get the task of having her clubman Schüssel. Then, at once three months later, there is a presidential where, in view of the debate on the question: How does Parliament work? What we are going to do with Question Time is to be discussed again. And then Klubobmann Schüssel comes and de facto brings in the proposal you rejected by the ÖVP at the time in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. And then Mrs. Karl comes and says that she would have prevented anything. That's just more absurd! [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] I do not know that this group seems to have a certain leadership crisis. It's incredible! – But for the daytime now a good speech. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] All right, so there's a reformed Question Time tomorrow, but that's actually not part of the request. I think it would be even better. We will see tomorrow whether it is proven to do so with the additional questions. Originally, it would have been planned to do the whole thing only with the questioner and the minister, thus allowing several different questions. Now we will probably spend four to five questions, but it is better, it is more invigorating, it offers the possibility of discussion. Of course, the Scheibner request is very good, as it is on the agenda today. After what we experienced in the morning, this is a similar situation in a different context. The point was that an amendment was tabled very briefly in plenary and that de facto was not workable. And it is precisely that this request refers only to the fact that it is not essentially about the plenary, but also to the committees, where there is the possibility of altering government documents in such a way that something quite different is inside – the famous question of the “carrier missiles”. So let's write in something that we haven't yet agreed on, some formal story, and then there comes a huge amendment that completely changes the laws. And that is not exactly what Mrs Prammer said, which has repeatedly said, that we cannot discuss here in a serious way and that it is impossible to have a parliamentary debate. That is why we support this request; perhaps there is agreement in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29425	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 682/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:22:32]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-06-05-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29458	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 775/A to 778/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 4498/J to 4529/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 22.23 a.m., immediately following this meeting. The sitting is closed.
