ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1140	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! According to § 3 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the last legislative period is responsible for opening the sitting and holding the Presidency until the election of the new President or the new President. First of all, I may ask you to rise from the squares for a minute's memory. [[Those present rise from their seats.]] [[09:07:03]] Ceremony on the occasion of the death of Dr. Helmut Zilk and Karl Sekanina
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1171	Ladies and gentlemen! As you all know, on Friday, 24th. In October 2008, one of the most distinctive personalities of political life, Dr. Helmut Zilk, died. As a trained teacher, Dr. Zilk has been dedicated to people for a long time. In this role he worked as an adult educator, journalist, program director of the ORF and as a newspaper’s Ombudsman – to name just a few areas of activity. In May 1983 he was appointed Minister of Education and Culture to the then newly formed Federal Government. In September 1984, Dr. Zilk was elected mayor of Vienna's capital city. As a recognition of his achievements for the city, he was awarded the highest award of the city of Vienna in 1995. As an unspeakable and not ever more comfortable “homo politician”, Helmut Zilk will remain in memory; just as he as a human being was always striking and has always opened his eyes across the borders. Ladies and gentlemen! It was only yesterday that the news arrived that the former Federal Minister for Buildings and Technology Karl Sekanina was exactly on his 82th. He died a birthday. Karl Sekanina grew up in small circumstances to have a considerable career as a trade unionist, parliamentarian and minister. In October 1963, the Vienna Landtag sent Karl Sekanina to the Federal Council. A year later, in October 1964, he moved to the National Council, which he belonged to until May 1983, for almost 20 years. From November 1979 to February 1985, Karl Sekanina was the Federal Minister of Construction and Technology. In addition to politics, Sekanina became known to the general public as President of the Austrian Football League. Karl Sekanina was a distinctive and distinctive personality in his active years. He was a man who always knew what a situation required of him and what he had to do for the good of the land. Our participation applies to both members of our family, to Helmut Zilk, especially his wife. [[Those present persist for some time in dumb mourning.]] I thank you for the minutes of mourning. [[Those present take their seats again.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The first and constituent meeting of the newly elected National Council of XXIV. We will begin the legislative period with the German anthem. I ask you once again to rise from the squares. [[The trumpet ensemble “The Art of Trumpet Vienna” on the gallery is staged by the Austrian Federal Anthem, which is performed by the gatherings.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I very much welcome all the Members of the House, both those who were elected to the National Council and those who are now elected as newly elected Members at the beginning of their parliamentary activities. With respect, I welcome our President-in-Office Dr Heinz Fischer, who is present at this meeting. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] [[President Dr. Heinz Fischer rises from his place and thanks with a bowing.]] The ORF shall be delegated to the Constitutional Meeting from 9.05 a.m. until the outcome of the election of the Third President. [[09:12:19]] Meeting of the 2008/2009 ordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1288	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has, in accordance with Article 27(1). 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act with resolution of 14. In October 2008, the new National Council convened the ordinary 2008/2009 meeting of XXIV. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. On the basis of this resolution by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, today's meeting was scheduled. [[09:12:43]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1312	I can also send the House the following letter from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, 30. September 2008 Communication: 'Dear Madam President! I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 30 June, was the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. ==References== 300,000/5 BEV/2008, held at the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2008 (OJ L 330, 30.12.2008, p. In September 2008, the Federal Government issued a decision and the Federal Government and the State Secretary, in accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act, removed it from office. At the same time, the Federal President has me and the other members of the Federal Government, the Federal Minister at the Federal Chancellor's Office Heidrun Silhavyin. In accordance with Article 71 of the Federal Constitutional Act until the formation of a new federal government, the extent to which the administration continues and I am entrusted with the Presidency in the former Federal Government. In addition, on my proposal pursuant to Article 70(1) in conjunction with Article 78(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Government has the State Secretary power until the formation of a new Federal Government. Andreas Schieder, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Dr. Hans Winkler, Dr. Christoph Matznetter, Christa Kranzlund Christine Marek is entrusted with further perception of their functions. With the best greetings Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer’ According to § 3 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, until the final election of the scribes, I shall call on four Members of Parliament to provide this function for the time being, and after consulting the President-in-Office: Marianne Hagenhofer, Jakob Auer, Dr. Manfred Haimbuchner and Sigisbert Dolinschek. As an obstacle to today's sitting, Mr Magistrate. Wilhelm Molterer. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1403	With regard to the items obtained, I refer in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1463	Ladies and gentlemen, I can now also ask you to leave the hall before we enter the agenda. [[09:14:56]] 1. Point I should like to draw attention to some of the points raised by the honourable
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1487	We go into the agenda and arrive at the 1st. Point: It is the fishing of Members. The writer, Mrs Marianne Hagenhofer, will read the formula for fishing, and then the members will have to do the fishing with the words “I praise” on behalf of the rapporteur – who will later be replaced by the writer, Mr Sigisbert Dolinschekababung. I should now like to ask Mrs Hagenhofer, Madam President, to read the formula for fishing and start calling for the name. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to rise from the squares. [[Those present rise from their seats.]] Writer Marianne Hagenhofer: “They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.” By calling for a name by the writer Hagenhofer or by the writer Dolinschek, the following Members make the fishing observation with the words “I vow”: Ablinger Sonja; Auer Jakob; Auer Josef, Mag.Use custom fonts; Bartenstein Martin, Dr.; Bayr Petra; Mulder Ruth, Mag.Use custom fonts; Belakovich-Jenewein Dagmar, Dr.; Brosz Dieter; Brunner Christiane, Mag.Use custom fonts; Bucher Joseph; Bures Doris; Cap Josef, Dr.; Cortolezis-Schlager Katharina, Mag.Use custom fonts; Csörgits Renate; Darabos Norbert, Mag.Use custom fonts; Darmann Gernot, Mag.Use custom fonts; Deimek Gerhard, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Dolinschek Sigisbert; Donabauer Karl; Donnerbauer Heribert, Mag.Use custom fonts; Doppler Rupert; Eßl Franz; Faul Christian; Faymann Werner; Fazekas Hannes; Fekter Maria Theresia, Mag. Dr.; Fichtenbauer Peter, Dr.; Franz Anna; Fuhrmann Silvia; Fürntrath-Moretti Adelheid Irina; Gahr Hermann; Carmen gourds; Gartlehner Kurt, Ing.Use custom fonts; Gaßner Kurt, Mag.Use custom fonts; Gessl-Ranftl Andrea; Glaser Franz; Glavischnig-Piesczek Eva, Dr.; Grain-duration Alois; Count Martin, Mag. Dr.; Grillic Fritz; Grossmann Elisabeth, Mag.Use custom fonts; Grosz Gerald; Green Forest Kurt, Dr. Haberzetl Wilhelm; Hagen Christoph; Hagenhofer Marianne; Hahn Johannes, Dr.; Haider Roman, Mag.Use custom fonts; Haimbuchner Manfred, Mag. Dr.; crochet Elisabeth; Hakl Karin, May.Use custom Haubner Peter; Haubner Ursula; Hechtl Johann; Heinzl Anton; Hell Johann; Herbert Werner; Höbart Christian, Ing.; Hofer Norbert, Ing.Use custom fonts; Höfinger Johann; Hellner Anna; Hörl Franz; Hornek Erwin; Huber Gerhard; Hübner Johannes, Dr.; Ikrath Peter Michael, Mag.Use custom fonts; Jannach Harald; Jarolim Johannes, Dr.; Jury Joseph; Kaipel Erwin, Ing.Use custom fonts; Karl Beatrix, Mag. Dr.; Karlsböck Andreas, Dr. Katzian Wolfgang; Keck Dietmar; Kickl Herbert; Kirchgatterer Franz; Kitzmüller Anneliese; Clicklovits Oswald; Cheers Gerhard; Kogler Werner, Mag.Use custom fonts; Königsberger-Ludwig Ulrike; Königshofer Werner, DDr.Use custom fonts; Head Karlheinz; Korun Alev, Mag.Use custom fonts; Kößl Günter; Krainer Kai Jan; Herbs Günther, Dr.; Crist Hermann; Kunasek Mario; Kuntzl Andrea, Mag.Use custom fonts; Kurzmann Gerhard, Dr.; Kuzdas Hubert, Ing. May.Use custom fonts; Christine Lapp, Mag.Use custom fonts; Laust Christian; Lettenbichler Josef, Mag.Use custom fonts; Lichtenecker Ruperta, Dr.; Linder Maximilian; Lipitsch Hermann; List Kurt; Lohfeyer Rosa, Mag.Use custom fonts; Lopatka Reinhold, Dr.; Lueger Angela; Lugar Robert, Ing.; Lunacek Ulrike, Mag.Use custom fonts; Maier Ferdinand, Dr.; Marek Christine; Markowitz Stefan; Matznetter Christoph, Dr.; Mayer Elmar; Mayer Peter; Mayerhofer Leopold; Reinhold, Dr. Mitterlehner; Moser Gabriela, Dr.; Musical Joseph; Mühlberghuber Edith; Musiol Daniela, Mag.Use custom fonts; Neubauer Werner; Neugebauer Fritz; Upper Noster Gabriel; Ollinger Karl; Pendl Otto; Petzner Stefan; Pilz Peter, Dr.; Pirklhuber Wolfgang, Dipl.-Ing. Dr.; Plassnik Ursula, Dr.; Plessl Rudolf; Prehauser Stefan; Prammer Barbara, Mag.Use custom fonts; Praßl Michael; Prince Nicholas; Pröll Josef, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Rädler Johann; Riener Barbara; Riepl Franz; Rosary Walter, Dr.; Rudas Laura; Sacher Ewald; Honey Birgit, Mag.Use custom fonts; Scheibner Herbert; Schenk Martina; Arbitrator Andreas, Mag.Use custom fonts; Abrasive helmet Dorothea; Schönegger Bernd, Mag.Use custom fonts; Schönpass Rosemarie; Shopf Walter; Schultes Hermann, Ing.Use custom fonts; Kussel Wolfgang, Dr.; Schwentner Judith, Mag.Use custom fonts; Silhavy Heidrun; Singer Johann; Sonnberger Peter, Dr.; Spadiut Wolfgang, Dr.; Spindelberger Erwin; Spindlegger Michael, Dr.; Stadler Ewald, Mag.Use custom fonts; Dust Peter; Stefan Harald, Mag.Use custom fonts; Steibl Ridi; Steier Gerhard; Steindl Konrad; Steinhauser Albert, Mag.Use custom fonts; Strache Heinz-Christian; Stupid Günter, Dkfm. Dr.; Tadler Erich; Themessl Bernhard; Unspoiled Heidemarie, Mag.Use custom fonts; Van der Bellen Alexander, Dr.; Vilimsky Harald; Vock Bernhard; Walser Harald, Dr. Weinzinger Lutz; Wenninger Hannes; Westenthaler Peter, Ing.Use custom fonts; Widmann Rainer, Mag.Use custom fonts; Windbühler-Sushill Tanja; Windwood Ernest; Winter Susanne, Dr.; Wittmann Peter, Dr.; Woeinger August; Worm Gisela, Mag.Use custom fonts; vocalist Wolfgang; Zinggl Wolfgang, Mag. Dr.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2202	Ladies and gentlemen, with your vow to legally and conscientiously exercise your functions, you are binding. I can wish you the best possible success for your responsible parliamentary work in the service of our Republic. [[09:25:52]] 2. Point Election of the President/President, Second President/Second President and Third President/Third President of the National Council
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2234	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There are written constituencies, which I announce as follows: The proposal for the President of the National Council is to Mrs Mag. Barbara Prammer. On the election of the Second President, Mr Michael Spindelegger was put to the vote. There are two constituencies for the election of the Third President. The proposal by the Liberal and Democratic Group is to Mr Dr. Martin Graf; the proposal of the Green Parliament Club is to Mr Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen. In line with the President-in-Office of the Council, I propose to hold a debate on this item on the agenda and ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it for a sign on this issue. – This is unanimously accepted. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2307	According to § 57 para. 3 C. 2 of the Rules of Procedure is proposed for this debate a 15-minute block-by-group speaking time, with a maximum of two speakers per group. We are talking about the strength of the political groups. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. We are now going into the debate. First of all, Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. 15 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2340	Madam President. – And I am very proud to say that we have a Madam President. That is why – not only because of it but also because of it – we propose Barbara Prammer as President again today. She is the only woman in the Bureau, and she is fully supported by the Socialist parliamentary group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have contributed to Parliament's development in recent years. Many of us have been working as Members for a long time and know that there has been a process of opening up, started under the legendary President Heinz Fischer, who is now a Federal President among us and who is always very happy to come to this House, as we know. We know that Andreas Khol, as President, has also contributed to this. It has been said that Parliament will be opened to the people, that it will be understood as a house in which to conduct events where there are guided tours, where one can really contact the individual Members, meet with them, discuss together the history of this House. I think this is a very good tradition, because it also signals the proximity to the citizens. There must be no barriers, and there must be this identification, which is so important for parliamentary democracy. This is important in terms of the right to vote, by expanding the personality elements, but it is also important to be able to represent – whether in the form of discussion events, presentations, or surveys – how often we are about positions and how important this opening process is. Barbara Prammer, who, of course, has devoted himself to this development, has worked as a president for all 183 Members and has always exercised her activity with great care, great commitment and, of course, in law enforcement and in connection with the Constitution. What is a special institution: the 'democracy workshop', which was set up by Mrs Prammer's initiative and has become a very essential institution when it comes to inspiring young people for this House, to inform young people of the importance of this House in parliamentary democracy. We are very glad that there is this facility – an institution that is characterized by real success. Many, many tours and events are here in this house – and that speaks around. This is also one of Barbara Prammer's great merits. I am convinced that this will continue to develop and continue to be so successful. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Madam President, Mr Prammer said at the outset that television is transferring this constitutional meeting. – I think this is very important and I believe that this should also be extended in the future so that the closeness of the Austrians to their Parliament will be strengthened by continuing to carry out television broadcasts, so that the citizens have the opportunity to pursue debates here in the house, and that it will also be seen how they really try to develop common positions here – and the audiences can also see how to deal with each other. I think it is very crucial – this is an element of political culture – to see how debates are taking place here, how committee meetings are taking place, how consensus is found, how to reach compromises, how to simply and simply try to meet the demands of a high democratic culture. It is crucial, as I believe, what role Parliament plays within the Austrian institutions. We know that there used to be a competitive relationship between the social partners, who have been involved in the construction of the Second Republic since 1945. We know that there have often been tensions between the performance of the functions of government on the one hand and Parliament's duties on the other, and can now be said: Parliament has become a self-confident institution. Many Presidents, especially those whom I have already mentioned, have played an essential role in the fact that in our time and within these institutions Parliament is a self-confidence Parliament, which strives to be respected within these institutions, just as the Parliament, of course, respects the other institutions, all on the basis of the Constitution. The Presidents are also in favour, and this is also the position of President Barbara Prammer, who has repeatedly demonstrated in her previous work that it is a matter of respect for Parliament and of weighting within the institutions and of proper balance. This, ladies and gentlemen, should continue to be the same in the future, and I think that the Members here, as I believe, all 183 Members, are of the opinion that this weighting should be stressed in the future and that this weighting is of great importance in the future. In this context, the question is also important: What's the game of power? How is the handling of the government fractions with the opposition? And – also a crucial one Element of democratic quality: How does the information process work, how does consensus finding work in pragmatic processes here in the home? It must be borne in mind that the President/President of the National Council always has a very important role in finding a consensus, a compromise. So how do you deal with this? In what way is one prepared to think about the expansion of minority rights here in the house so that the control tasks of the house can be carried out – and will be even more fulfilled in the future? How can one contribute to the fact that the opposition also feels that it is not an unimportant part of the whole? The opposition often has creative ideas, makes proposals that are desired, which are discussed and which may even be able to find entry into policy-making. I believe that this House must, as a whole, insist on being taken seriously, that its importance should be further expanded in the future – and that it does not give the impression that we would not take our work seriously ourselves. We're there, as I mean, on the right track. I also know – I can say this in so far as I am already a little longer here – how the opposition was dealt with earlier, and can therefore say: This development can really be described as positive. I now come to another point, namely – which has already been discussed in the public a lot – the so-called Usances, as it is so beautiful. For example, that debate was debated and asked: Well, how is it, how are the Presidents elected here? . It is true that the strongest party makes a proposal for the President/President, who is almost the Parliament's representation outwards, and he/she also bears responsibility for what is going on here and how this House is doing. And, of course, there is the second President/second President – on the proposal of the second strongest group – and the third President/third President – on the proposal of the third strongest group. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that such uses make sense – just as it makes sense for us to proceed according to a system. – The good old d’Hondt often helps us when it comes to distributing the forces when it comes to defining the composition of the committees, but also, if it applies, to find consensus on the number of committees or on the Presidency in committees. There must therefore be a cultivated and democratic relationship with each other, but it is also important that there are rules. – And here, this so-called parliamentary use is a rule that does not force the majority of the minority to do something permanently, but that one seeks to compensate, so there is also a democratic culture. That is why, as well as in principle, it is right and important to maintain this use that the strongest political group proposes the presidents – in this case Barbara Prammer – the second strongest of the second presidents, the third strongest of the third presidents. That, I mean, is a very essential thing. However, I say – and I want to add that as a very crucial one now – that: All of us here, all 183 Members, have just said: “I promise”, and we therefore have to respect the Constitution, we have to respect the laws – and we want to make a contribution to the expansion of parliamentary democracy, democracy as a whole. We want to contribute to the image improvement of Parliament, to the overall policy, and I believe that we are well advised to do so. There is a fundamental consensus in this Republic, and I think that was also a constitutional element in the construction of the Second Republic. This basic consensus also includes questions relating to the past, questions of events that took place back in our country before 1945 and longer. At some times, there is this debate, this debate, and I say immediately: I think this is the right thing to do, because there are a lot of young people who have been able to vote for the first time, and because they have such an argument and have to express themselves quite clearly. For us Socialists and Socialists, it is clear that the basis of the activity of all Members – including the President, including the Third President – is that there must be a clear condemnation of national socialist crimes, that there must be a clear attitude towards the Holocaust. Millions of Jews have been gassed, killed, yes, also Social Democrats, also Christian Democrats, also Communists, Roma and Sinti, as well as homosexuals. – These are all people who had to suffer under the Holocaust and were killed in concentration camps. This requires very clear positions! We of the SPÖ also believe that there must be no bulging in the law on bans. The Prohibition Act has a high symbolism, and it can and must not, therefore, give rise to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] – I don't understand the calls of the Greens at all now! It is also important to take a clear position on matters of racism to be combated, or on questions of anti-Semitism to be addressed. We Socialists and Socialists are inextricably of the view that we have to express our clear position on this again and again – here and today, and especially today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This catalogue of values represents a fundamental consensus for the Second Republic. Building on this catalogue of values, we have the dialogue with young people – not only but also. We have this dialogue, especially with young people, because we want events in the future, as they did before 1945, in our country – in whatever changed form – never again are possible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is therefore quite clear that there must be these positions. This is a responsibility that we have towards the victims of our history, which we have to fulfill towards the young generations. There is also a very responsible work in this House, including within the Presidency, on the issue of compensation for victims, reparation and so on. These are very essential signals and symbols to which we confess and where we feel: Words about this cannot be clear enough! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: And actions must follow!]] I have spoken these words here today, and they are part of the basic consensus of our Republic, part of the basic consensus of the Constitution and part of the basic consensus of activity here in the House. After that, everyone and everything must be evaluated.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2454	Next come Mr Klubobmann Dipl.-Ing. Proud of speaking, with a desired speaking time of 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2476	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mrs National Council President! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a premiere for me today: For the first time, as a member of the House of Lords, I should like to address my words to you from this speaker's desk, in a very special situation. I would like to thank, before I deal with the issues raised in part and which are moving us today, the election of the three Presidents of the National Council – three of the highest offices of this Republic – especially those who have served Austria at the head of this House during the course of the legislative period and who have done so excellently, namely Barbara Prammer, Michael Spindelegger and Eva Glawischnig. At the same time, I would like to ask that we continue to maintain this basic consensus, which we have maintained, in the next legislative period. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The same is true of our thanks to the many Members who have been expelled due to the results of the elections, who, with their ideas and convictions in recent months and years, have played a decisive part in the work in the House and in the ways of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, with the constituent session, we are also at the beginning of a legislative period, which will undoubtedly be one of the most challenging legislative periods – if one can believe the data, the economic researchers and all the events – as measured by what has been so far. It will probably also be up to us here in the House to find the right answers in a very difficult, challenging time, namely the right answers for Austria to define a strong Austria in Europe. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, 28 In September 2008, the voters have re-distributed the weights in Austria, and here too, I think, part of the challenge – not in the question of the percentage strength and the distribution of mandates in the High House, but in the fact that 5 million Austrians have voted – and the 183 MEPs have their task, to the best of their knowledge and conscience, for the electorate and in their sense, but that 1.3 million electorate candidates remain away. Trying to turn that back into a positive direction is, I think, an assignment to us. It is about advertising from this House, from this place here, with a policy that deals with the problems in terms of content, but at a level and in a style that is designed to bring people back to the constituency. – We should do this together at the beginning of a legislative period. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I am therefore also pleased – and this is part of this new style – that we have found a platform with the Austrian talks, in which the party leaders of the parties represented here in Parliament have participated, where we can exchange views beyond the government work and opposition role. Knowing that two-thirds of the constitutional majority are no longer so simple, it is necessary to work together outside the House to implement reforms. The motto for these challenging times can only be: Solutions instead of disputes and reforms instead of standstill. – And to do this, we need the joint discussion, the preparation of the differences, including the discussion, but at a level, at a level corresponding to that of politics. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, now on the election proposals, on the election of the three Presidents of the National Council. In this context, there is a use or a rule in Parliament, which means: After the distribution of the weights by the voters – and that's on 28 May. September – the strongest group has the right to propose the First President First of all, the second most powerful group has the right to put forward a proposal for the Second President and the third most powerful group the right to submit its own proposal for the Third President. We are proud of the Austrian People's Party that, with Michael Spindelegger, we can propose to a President for election, who has been represented here in Parliament since 1996, who has perceived, defended and debated the interests of the people, who have expressed his conviction in the European Parliament, and who has demonstrated during the course of the legislative period that he is able to exercise his responsibility as President over the parties, in a positive and outstanding way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dr. Michael Spindelegger is a convincing European, a good foreign politician and a convinced Austrian, so we propose him for the Second President's office and also ask for the confidence to confirm what he has begun his work in the last legislative period. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our support also includes the election of Barbara Prammer as President of the National Council. In the future, we hope for an objective, responsible exercise of the function without party political influence. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, now to the Third President, on the FPÖ election proposal, Martin Graf, said very briefly: We accept the rule and the use I mentioned earlier, and I should like to explain one thing that has happened since 8. In November 2006, Martin Graf was unanimously elected chairman of an investigative committee here in the House of all political groups. This question is allowed, and I'll put it here in the room. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] This will also be an assessment criterion for how the vote will be taken. [[Calls to the Greens.]] But if he does, we'll expect him. Martin Graf, as well as the other Bureau members, will also elect an objective Presidency, and we will not hesitate to ask for it in the future if it is necessary. In this sense, congratulation to all those who have been praised in the House today. – I look forward to constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2600	Mr Klubobmann Strache is next spoken. 10 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2621	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Klubobmann Cap mentioned today that the opening of Parliament and minority rights were already at the last stage. . I think that the opening up of Parliament and, above all, the extension of minority rights in this House must, of course, be further developed. We have not yet arrived at a positive end, there is still much to do. Mr Cap, you have also spoken today about parliamentary democracy, which, of course, serves as a basis for all of us and which is most important to us. Especially the political ancestors of the Freedom Party have always fought for this. The right to vote is at the heart of democracy, and it is precisely this: to take the right to vote seriously as a centrepiece of democracy and to live up to respect and respect for an election decision. I address these words to the ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group, who today seem to have no respect for and no recognition of the outcome of the election of 28. ==References== [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] ==References== In September, political paths were punished in Austria. Other political paths in Austria have been strengthened. One should therefore be right after the 28th century. Not just go to the agenda on September. One should respect the result, recognize it and draw the right lessons from it. This is also a result of the 28. September had been: Exclusion, diffamation, denunciation – all of this was rejected in Austria. I'm telling you about the greens: Freedom is always only the freedom of the dissident. – This sentence has been said by someone who is ideologically very close to some of the Green Group’s people – Mrs Glawischnig, Mr Van der Bellen and others – namely Rosa Luxembourg. But you do not seem to have internalized this statement yet, for otherwise it is not to be explained that you are here and today trying to circumcise and circumcise the freedom of dissidents – that is, those of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's a naughtiness! That's a shame!]] For weeks, from the Greens and your family friends, you've been driving a het campaign against Dr. Martin Graf, where I say: This is bound by human contempt, which you have given the best in the last few days and weeks to a renowned and untamed democrat like Dr. Martin Graf! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Dr. Martin Graf has not been blamed as an untamed MP and man. You should respect that, too, of the Greens! But You from the Greens obviously have a revenge campaign because you do not suffer from the voter on 28 May. In September, the third force in Austria had been regained to the fifth force. What Thoughts They obviously maintain, indeed, the human history of some of the representatives in their ranks, in which former members of the group of revolutionary Marxists can be found. But also from the sides of the green party youth there have been some posters in the election campaign that fit into this picture. I do not want to quote them all again, perhaps just one substitute for the many cruel posters of the Green Youth: “Take a flagerl for your Gackerl!” – And so do I. But that shows what kind of thought you seem to care for. I say to you that Dr Martin Graf is an experienced and proven parliamentarian, who has been active in this House since 1994 as a parliamentarian, who, as chairman of the Banking Investigation Committee, has done excellent work and at that time received respect and recognition for his work across all political borders. And it hasn't changed since then. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Martin Graf was chairman of the Scientific Committee. He also served in the chair of the Inconsistency Committee, in the chair of numerous committees, and held the chair of several parliamentary surveys. Col. Graf was a folder of the liberal parliamentary club. He worked in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Dr. Graf stands in his worldly orientation like the entire community of freedom on the ground and the values of the 1848s Freedom Revolution, where our ancestors for the rights of freedom have intervened and fought for the freedom of expression, that there is freedom of the press, that we develop towards democracy, yes, that there could be an Austrian constitution also on the basis of these achievements in 1867. – Yes, these are important fundamental and freedom rights that we have fought for! Dr. Martin Graf, like all the liberal mandates and members, fully acknowledges our homeland, the Republic of Austria, our democracy, our rule of law, our laws and our constitutions, all of which we have been praised today. He never blamed himself. This is also the basic democratic consensus, which characterizes all of us. The same applies to him as to all of us the fundamental rejection of all criminal ideologies, all totalitarian and human ideologies. Of course, we condemn all forms of political fanaticism, racism and anti-Semitism! Of course, we are in favour of condemning these cruel forms and all the misguided ideologies among which crimes and mass murders have taken place. The democratic values are held by Dr. Martin Graf and by us enthusiastically high, and we are fighting for these basic democratic values, which, unfortunately, God is again and again, through manipulation by the Greens of others in this House. And that's exactly what you shouldn't just leave in the room like that. Martin Graf has cleared out all the statements of the most common kind in the last few weeks and made them clear in this respect, but you didn't want to hear that. Apparently, this is exactly the principle that the Green Group and other groups sometimes live in this country: prefer to give dirtdowel campaigns for the best, insults their frustration – which is due to the results of the election of 28. It is found by the Greens in September – and it is directed against the person of the Dr. Martin Graf. It's not the person Dr. Martin Graf. It is no matter who would have set up and nominated the Freedom Party as the third strongest force in the country in the sense of Uzance. – You would have unpacked and poured any other dirt bubble from the greens. That's exactly the principle you're doing. We know these campaigns to the satisfaction of the past, which has been there more often, which are obviously preprogrammed in you by the Greens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Unfortunately, there are God’s groups in the country, which – as you do from the Greens – are not prepared to accept democratic results and rules of the game. And I'll tell you: That's exactly your problem! I can also tell you what Metternich, Hitler and Honecker had in common: All three had been banned in their regimes of rule. – So that you can learn history and perhaps begin to deal objectively with it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am very pleased that the Greens in the Bavarian Landtag are advertising at least with the Hambach Festival on their homepage, where they stand for freedom of assembly. At least this shows that there are greens who have learned history and think differently about history than you do. I'm telling you, all the interruptions that have taken place in the last few days and weeks are taking place. The use that the strongest political group has the right of nomination for the First President, the second most powerful of all for the Second President and the third strongest of all for the Third President, which we have always lived and complied with. We've never nominated candidates. In this case, there have always been secret elections here in the House, and if you interpret from the Green Secret Elections today in such a way that you know who has chosen secret as well, then once again this shows your concept of democracy, which apparently has been lost to you by God and which is missing from you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why the Lord Candidates Van der Bellen as an election loser of 28. Not for the First President today? I am already very sad that you are being abused for this dirty game today. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I wouldn't have trusted you, Mr. Van der Bellen. But please, you will have to represent it yourself and damage yourself with it. I'm telling you, it won't be They decide by the Greens or self-appointed Gutmans who nominated the third strongest force in the country as personality for the office of the Third President. - That's what we decide! I would also like to conclude by saying: Man is born free and lies in chains everywhere. - That's what Rousseau said. The chains have become more subtle in many areas today than in Roussaus times, but they still exist. And precisely the Greens want to tighten these chains, namely the chains of evamation, diffamation and the reputation murder. No, Mrs Glavischnig, no, Mr Van der Bellen, you will not be able to cut down on democracy today. I am telling you this from this point of view and from this place.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2728	Mr Klubobmann Bucher came next. 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2751	Madam President. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Honourable representatives of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to welcome all the newly elected mandates of the House on behalf of the BZÖ, and to congratulate them on today's fishing experience. It is a great day for all of them, especially for the fellow family members and friends who attend this today's first, constituent session. I can still take a good look at my fishing experience on the 20th. December 2002 – and Mr Cap’s speech was similar to that of the same person. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ as well as with representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mr Cap, you seem to have an excellent speech-manuscript archive in your office, because at any time you can take out the speeches of the past years and hold them here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Can he be outside!]] I only recall one claim you made at the time, Mr Cap, which has personally impressed me very much, because for a young Member everything is new, everything is very exciting and spectacular in here. At the time you made the offer to us, we like to come to your office as a new young Member, because you would make an apprenticeship for us. [[Cheerfulness with BZÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I am very happy that I voted out this offer, otherwise I would not have been praised again, for the third time here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ as well as with representatives of the ÖVP.]] I can now come to the real issue. We will take account of the use of the House, of course, we have always done so. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Despite the speech of Straches!]] Even if we are the youngest party in Austria, even though we put the youngest Members on the average of this House, we also have old-fashioned knowledge in the sense of what is common in this House. This is what we are going to do in recent years. It is, of course, our task, but also our will and our desire that we do not violate the use of this House. We have been with President Mag in recent years. Barbara Prammerand, of course, also satisfied Dr. Michael Spindelegger with the esteemed Second President, because they proved to be very objective and sensible Presidents in the management of the meeting. There has been no conflict, as always, that we would have to give to the Pranger today. However, we insist that it is legitimate and correct that the Freedom Party as the third power of our country should be the third president. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We will support this with our 21 votes, ladies and gentlemen, because this is the case and because we have never heard – I have been in the House for six years now – a reprehensible right-wing populist act or a populist speech by Dr. Martin Graf. [[Accident with BZÖ and FPÖ]] His careful leadership of the Banking Investigation Committee was impressive, even if then and when what the Rules of Procedure had reached were different – it was based on consensus. I still have the very benevolent, praiseful comments of the Greens in the ear, which unfortunately have not been expressed today; they may still be expressed, because cooperation with the Greens in particular with the FPÖ has worked very well in the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: This was not about the law of ban!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also understand, of course, that the greens remain faithful to their tradition and set up a candidate – that has tradition, that was no different in recent years. The Greens have always kept it so that if the third camp – under the quotation mark – has set up a candidate, they have presented it to a candidate. I say to Mr Professor Van der Bellen, which I very much appreciate: Mr Professor, I would have preferred your luran-intellectual speeches, which I say quite openly from this speaker's point of view. I therefore believe that it is a good solution if you continue to take place where you have made very effective contributions in recent years in the context of many discussions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] At the beginning of a new legislative period one speaks, Ladies and gentlemen, very often and gladly from the opposition rights – also Klubobmann Josef Cap has mentioned this again today in a proven way. I don't know how long you've been working, Mr Cap, but at least six years, and that's all the time. At each fishing observation meeting, you praise your desire to develop minority rights, opposition rights in the House, the possibility for fewer Members to set up an investigation committee. I would say, Mr Cap, if the constituency continues, then I really think this is a very exciting and great idea from you, because then perhaps you yourself will get into the situation to want to benefit from improved opposition rights. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I come to a point that is very important to me – he has been raised several times today. We face economically uncertain, difficult times, that is no question at all; we have already begun the bank rescue package to accentuate where it is immediately important and necessary. However, this also requires that we in the House involve more strongly the opposition proposals – the Austrian talks offer an opportunity – because I am convinced that the opposition makes good proposals, has good proposals, has good concepts that are worth discussing here in the House and beyond, because you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, may for the first time perhaps get into the situation, in a possible medium-sized coalition, the opposition for some constitutional majority. I would therefore strongly recommend that you take this proposal, this constructive proposal of the opposite of us, seriously, and reflect it on it in the interest of the Republic, because it is ultimately a matter of ensuring the good of people here in the House and not for the party! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The BZÖ has moved in with 21 mandaters – a very great success of the 28th. September of this year. This success is only due to Jörg Haider, who has been enormously committed and provided for it. Please assume and note that in future these 21 MEPs will be the guardians and guardians of Jörg Haider's policy, that we will also make a commitment to the policy that has determined his life. We want to keep Jörg Haider's policy alive, especially the policies of recent years. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2884	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek will speak next. 8 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2905	Madam President. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Also a warm welcome to the new Members, also in their own ranks! I think if you make decisions for the future, you should be very well aware of where you come from to go further in the past, you should know very well where you come from. Today, as free Members of the Austrian Federal Constitution, we were honoured here; the Austrian federal constitution, the fundamental rights, the human rights, which also contains the declaration of independence, is the foundation of the Second Republic. And this foundation stone contains a clear commitment to antifascism. The antifascist parties of Austria declare the independence of the Second Republic. At the end of 2008, we had a year in which we could have treated history very seriously, and some construction sites in history could have been closed. 2008 was to be a year of memory and memory. 70 years ago, 1938, Austria became part of Hitler-Germany with the so-called connection. For thousands of people, especially for our Jewish fellow citizens, persecution, torture and death began. In November 1938, even 70 years ago, almost on the days exactly, the systematic persecution began in the “Reich crystal night. ” Expulsions, expropriations, lootings, especially in Vienna, the destruction of synagogues and houses, 6 547 Jews were arrested, 3 700 were immediately deported to the concentration camp in Dachau. Businesses were destroyed or forcibly cleared, and the economic ruin of this population in Austria followed the systematic murder. 125,000 Jews were able to escape from the Austrian territory abroad. 65,000 people, including many children, were murdered. It is, I believe, a fundamental condition for every office representing this Republic, and this is what the Bureau of the National Council does to make clear the uncompromising rejection of National Socialism too! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The election of the Third President of the National Council is not a formal, not a procedural, question, but a political one. It is also a secret and free choice of all Members of this House, a decision of conscience. It is not just a matter of Rules of Procedure, but a political question: How do we orient ourselves here this year 2008? Martin Graf, you have explained that you distance yourself from all totalitarian regimes, including National Socialism. But I have to tell you the following: Their membership with “Olympia” and all the incidents that took place there give us the impression that it is a pure lip confession. I would like to ask you again, Mr Martin Graf, how you stand on this, and I would also like to ask the representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ how you stand about these incidents that have occurred there: a Holocaust liar, David Irving, on the way there, on the way to "Olympia", in 2005. He contests the existence of gas chambers. He also contests the murder of millions of people, Jews and Jews, including children. The right-wing songmaker Michael Müller, in 2003 he was invited to a song evening by “Olympia”. He showed in advance with a gruesome text, with a gruesome song which he has. I would like to read to you about the radicality of these positions, which have found a stage in this boyry: “With six million Jews, the fun starts first, with six million Jews, the oven is on. ... We have plenty of Zyklon B. ... With six million Jews, it is far from over." This is a text by Udo Jürgens – Mr Petzner will probably know him very well. [[Abg. Strache: What's that?]] [[Prolonged calls.]] This is a song by Udo Jürgens, the text by Michael Müller. [[Abg. Strache: What do you want to put with it now?]] This songmaker received a podium from “Olympia” was invited there; I do not care if he has performed this song there or not, a person with this attitude. [[Abg. Strache: This is not at all what you place here! You're going to put it under! They work with falsehoods and precepts! That's exactly the point! Imagination and diffamation are these! That's incredible!]] Do you think you're talking about the freedom of the dissidents? Do you mean people like that? But I am no longer addressing you, but I am addressed to the SPÖ and ÖVP Members: What attitude do you take on these texts, on these events? What fidelity is when you say: It is a life covenant to be associated with such a civility for a lifetime!Unknown term type: "%s".? If you don't find it easy to say here: With this contempt of human beings, I do not want to have anything to do with this gentleman.Unknown term type: "%s".? Connect to which fidelity You're this guy? – To me and, as I believe, to many people in Austria, this is a mystery. That is why today's decision is not a formal, not a use decision. Uses have the purpose of facilitating the formal procedure in Parliament to regulate procedures more flexible, better, but they are not law. It is really a political decision to make a free conscience decision from you and from you, to whom you give your vote today. [[towards SPÖ]] [[towards ÖVP]] I would like to stress once again: 2008 could have been a year when we were doing some of these past construction sites. The Jewish cemeteries – I say this in this clarity – continue to form ahead. It has not yet succeeded in finding a solution here. Many NS victims are still unharmed to this day, have no euro, have not received a cent. [[Abg. Strache: The compensation has attacked the Freedom Party in its reign!]] And we still have no unmistakable repeal of the NSA judgments, no unmistakable repeal of the legislation and the judgments of the time. So: There are a lot of things to do, and I think that we should deal with the future rather than with the revisions that are still ahead of us, and not with such ominous, cruel events and the inability to distance ourselves from them and to distinguish ourselves from them, but here... [[Abg. Strache: Stop claiming falsehood and defamation!]] – This is not an untruth, Mr. Strache. – You can read all of this. [[Abg. Strache: This is exactly the point: These are falsehoods and precepts!]] You probably weren't there yourself, but this text shook me so much. [[Abg. Strache: All the opinions you have made have been dealt with for a long time and have been lost by you!]] I wonder, What do we all sit for together on the occasion of the day of liberation from the Mauthausen concentration camp in the Reichsratsszaal? It was one of the most touching and difficult meetings this year to endure. It was about the fate of children and young people from 1938 to 1945. I can't help it. When I hear these fates from children who were murdered, children who were taken to gas chambers, I always see the face of my own child. It is so cruel to imagine that this has actually happened – and then there are people who deny it, who say: It didn't exist! It is the worst and the worst one can do to this republic to have no proper relationship with our past. [[Abg. Strache: Who will deny anything? What are you thinking of untruths again? They are all the time and defamation!]] That's the point, that's the political point we're dealing with today. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to say something about the election of the First President and the Second President: We are now here – in 2008 – a lot less women than six years ago. Here too, we should learn from history: The right to vote was introduced 90 years ago. We are still very far from the actual equality of women. And today it is a poverty witness that the female rate, the proportion of women in the National Council, unfortunately, has continued to decline. That's something we have to work on. In this sense, the choice of Barbara Prammer is a very important signal. I respect it is a free choice, but I can say very likely that the Members of my club Barbara Prammer will support it. I can also say this to Michael Spindelegger: We worked very cooperatively. We were in many respects, especially as regards the control rights of the National Council, not one opinion – we will continue to challenge that – but I also assume in this case – secret election and respect for this secret election – that the Green Members will support it. In this sense – the decisions we make – I appeal to you once again to consider who you choose today.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3060	Mrs Fekter's next speech. The ÖVP has 9 minutes remaining speaking time; I put the clock on these 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3082	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, also those in front of the screens! Democracy lives on rules of play and, in particular, on compliance with them. And it is one of the rules of the game that the three strongest groups in this House have a right of proposal for the Bureau of the National Council. It also belongs to the rules of the game that this Bureau is a consensus body and that this right of proposal is accepted by all parties. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is a broad consensus in this house. In general, the right to propose is not questioned. The fact that the Bureau is a body in which consensus is worked together, in which there is no room for party political profiling, is also a consensus in this House. That is why I would like to express another consensus in this House right at the beginning, because, as a result of certain statements made by previous speakers, there may have been the impression that there would have been no consensus here. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! All the Members of this House – I assume; we have been praised today – reject the National Socialist regime without compromise. I don't think anyone's sitting here who can't follow this consensus. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Do instead of talk!]] Mr Kogler, there is therefore this consensus, namely that the National Socialist Thoughts, the regime as a whole and the atrocities are rejected. I am an interior minister... – Watch out and listen, you can learn something! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] As an Interior Minister, I am responsible for the Mauthausen Memorials and its 40 external camps, so that these atrocities will never be forgotten, never left impoverished and will not be denied at all. Associations that re-act, impoverished and deny the Holocaust in this respect are forbidden. – Thus, in 1961 the association “Akademische Burschenschaft Olympia” was dissolved, due to the fact that it has acted beyond its statutes and has developed terrorist activities, particularly in connection with South Tyrol terror. This disbandment of the club is still upright. That means there's no longer that club! In 1970 the "Academic Table Round Olympia" was founded and renamed "Academic Burschenschaft Olympia" in 1971. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's something completely different!]] These “Olympia, ” mentioned here, continue to exist. The accusations put forward by Mrs Glawischnig are not directed directly against Mr Graf in the face of the horrific thoughts, but against the association of which he is a member, especially not against the members of the association or against the association itself, but against the invited persons to whom a stage was offered there. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Exactly!]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the thoughts of these guests are horrendous – I would like to emphasize this very clearly here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why the debate is justified, and therefore the debate on the fact that there has been no loss of such thought in this House, has not lost anything in our Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Graf has distanced himself. In his work here in Parliament, Mr Graf never gave a similar idea or provided an opportunity to suspect that he would share these ideas. We therefore accept the FPÖ's proposal to nominate Mr Graf for the office of the Third President, although we will observe very carefully how he will deal with it. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I have experienced a similar debate on the occasion of the third President's election here several times, for the first time when Professor Brauneder became President. There has been a similar debate. Professor Brauneder has exercised the Presidency very carefully, very objectively, very fair and consensual. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] A similar reflex to a liberal president then existed in the election of Mr Prinzhorn. At the time, too, we held a similar debate, and President Prinzhorn also exercised his office in a consensus-oriented manner. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Thus, none of the fears that previously existed in the room has proved true. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] We have held another similar debate when President-in-Office was elected. That is why this debate is not new to me. Of course, I regard them as the legitimate right of the Greens to obey critically here. But this does not put into question the question of the right of free movement for the Third President. It is very likely in discussion, Mr Graf, but I believe that the President's Office is banned from working. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's wrong! This is a mistake!]] On your homepage I find under your CV until last night at least that you are managing partner of GM Consulting KG. If this is no longer the case, please change the homepage! So far, this has been cited as a profession. I would ask you to rescind this profession and make a statement to the Inconsistency Committee on the correct procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3227	Mrs Fekter, I am reluctant to criticize you, but I must make it clear from this point of view that only the office of the President/President is incompatible, but not the office of the Second and Third Presidents. The next item is the speech by Mr Kickl. The FPÖ has 5 minutes of total residence time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3252	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I am also grateful for the correctness of the President's side. This is an example of many, which shows that things that are put into space here do not actually withstand a review, even if this was not done by the majority of the previous speakers. If we stand out here today and conjure up democratic culture in this country, the democratic culture that you, Mr Pirklhuber, may need a little more than some others, then it must also be allowed to light up the background in the interest of this democratic culture and its care and to look behind what is going on in anointing words. I am here with the Green Group and with Mrs Glawischnig, where we come with a special moral habit and with a special concern for democracy and the rule of law. – I’m going to suspect It is not going to happen that – and I have to call it so hard – in many of these areas it is nothing but political hypocrisy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Political hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group, because you act according to a world picture, where everything that is left is good, helpful, noble and human, while everything that does not fit into this '68s cast' is punctuated with sermons such as reactionary, undemocratic, right-wing radical and anything else that you just remember. I ask you for democratic culture, just be honest and call things by name! It is not a single minute for you to make some contribution to the improvement of democratic culture, and you also do not need to save democracy from anyone, because here it will not endanger anyone, except perhaps you in some kind of overrun way that you sometimes show. Tell me what you're doing! They do nothing but launch a new chapter in an ideologically motivated campaign against the liberals in general and, of course, against the citizens in particular. This is the game you're running here. Ladies and gentlemen, it would have been no matter what extent the removals had been, who we had candidates who had affected it. As long as the liberals had more than one percent than you had, and this teaches us the experience, you would have run for anyone to claim an office that does not hold you. But that's the green way of thinking in this area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to say something about this "Olympia", where you have such a great criticism of the invitation policy if you want to call it "Olympia". You know very well that the facts described by you do not correspond to the facts, just because Mr. Sperl once claimed something in the "standard", which has, by the way, been sued and where there is a judgment, an injunction judgment. That means these things are out of the world. That's why you don't need to make yourself here and repeat these things. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Mickey Mouse could have appeared at the "Olympia" and you would have found a reason to shout and a ban debate, as you would like to do, to break the fence again. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Do you know what this is especially objectionable to all the action? – This is particularly objectionable that you have been strenuous in your approach for days and weeks and use the concept of conscience to act morally. Perhaps you are not aware that the concept of conscience is something to do with knowledge. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To that end, one must also form this conscience. There is also a knowledge of the facts. It is not enough if one interprets the conscience from a bulwark, where one peppers a few left ideological shifts brand “revolutionary Marxists”, and that would be the filter to judge whether something is good or bad, moral or immoral. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what you are doing is not politically okay, nor is it moral, because you are twisting facts against better knowledge regarding Dr. Graf as well as with regard to the Burschen. They're shortening and falsifying you. Do you know what morals would be? – It would be moral if you knew precisely about these facts and because you know that Dr. Martin Graf is nothing to blame and that your accusations against the “Olympia” go into emptiness, one time just jump over your ideological shadow and say, yes, we are dealing here with an ungainly democrat who is still proposed by a party that has the right to make this proposal. Quite clearly, this would be a great moral act that we unfortunately cannot expect from you. That is not surprising, as you are showing yourself here today. I admit to you a certain frustration, 68, 2008; much has not been left of your dreams. You of the Greens have been sitting here in this House for about 20 years – and besides a popular lawyer who might deserve this name, there has not been much left. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to present today a sign of tolerance and your living democratic understanding and to present this fidelity to your own candidate.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3369	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Stadler. 7 minutes Total residence time for BZÖ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3390	Madam President. Mr President! High house! One of the consequences of the election results of the 28th century. September 2008 – on others, Mr Faymann, we need to discuss further, about claims for Chancellorships and government participation – is the appointment of the National Council Bureau. Colleague Bucher as our clubman has already made it clear that we will be the candidate of SPÖ in recognition of the SPÖ's claim, we will support the candidates of the ÖVP in recognition of the claim of the Austrian People's Party – both. We will also support the candidates of the liberals, out of a command of fairness, because the FPÖ is simply entitled to this claim on the basis of the election decision. It is a case of sin, Mr Strache, if you do not fully acknowledge these claims. Unfortunately, this was not the case in 2006. That is, the teaching from it is to recognise claims, once it has been assigned to the voters, and that is why we do so today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Cap's speech was remarkable because he was the first and only one to discuss the prohibition law. Yes, dear Josef Cap, this is your feel-good coalition you're preparing here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why he is so close to his group. The left-hand truck of the FPÖ is unmistakable, it literally pushes him to you. Now you're already on the skin feeling. You can whisper your orders to him in the future. Another choice and he not only sits you metaphorically, but also physically on the lap, ladies and gentlemen, High House! [[New condolences with BZÖ.]] [[Abg. You're sitting on the lap of the greens!]] And then the colleague, Cap, leaves it open whether the SPÖ is elected by the Count or not. We have not actually become smarter from your speech. Do you choose him or don't you choose him? You've discussed the Prohibition Act, and Martin Graf has interrupted the fact that he's in favour of abolishing the Prohibition Law. Does that mean nothing now? We will observe this very closely, because at least you have also tried to get through here somehow in the context of the Feel-Good coalition you have with Heinz-Christian Strache. Ladies and gentlemen, we say very clearly: Since 1994 Martin Graf has been here in the house. There has been no reason here in the house to put something subjective under the name of Mr Graf, ladies and gentlemen – not a single one! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I've known Martin Graf since I moved into this house with him myself. He will have grown to the task, that does not question anyone, even the greatest critics have not even claimed this in the approach. A fair presidency of Martin Graf is to be expected. Martin Graf has clear positions, ladies and gentlemen, and an impeccable personal reputation. No one has put anything under him personally. Mrs Glawischnig, if I may interrupt you briefly in the small talk with your employee: It is disastrous to do something exactly here, which has really happened in the time you rightly criticized and dramatically criticized, and there is also no liability for association membership. They are not for belonging to a people's group, to a religious community or to an association, ladies and gentlemen. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] That is what I am telling you now as a person who is obliged to have fundamental rights, as a lawyer who is bound by the constitution of this country. It is a disastrous principle here to open the “books of the Pandora” and to introduce sifting liability, even for association memberships. If you say what you blame Martin Graf personally, then we can discuss it! But as long as you only criticize where he is, and so to speak, deduce a “sippen liability” – under quotation marks – this is a pathetic principle that you are speaking the word here! That has become the greatest offence in history, ladies and gentlemen. You should therefore stop torpedoing and sabotaging Martin Graf's choice with the cult of political correctness. This is not the standard by which this House will decide in the future who will be in this Republic, ladies and gentlemen – and the voters will not do it for a long time. I don't know if you've noticed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, when we talk about club membership, I welcome the fact that Martin Graf has made his memberships public – but your candidate doesn't do that. Mr Van der Bellen has so far not disclosed his association memberships. Why do it? Don't you, Mr. Van der Bellen? Martin Graf's union carries a band and cap, your association, Mr. Van der Bellen, wears a kick; that's the difference. But would you perhaps reveal that? Their associations make a mystery from their membership, which democratically unbearable and now democratically politically can no longer be justified. Do this perhaps even once, go ahead with good example, you and other members of the House! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] It would be very instructive for us to be able to draw conclusions from it. [[Abg. Strache: Logenbruder by Dr. Haider!]] – Heinz-Christian Strache has already understood it as a Bonmot, which is also a progress, ladies and gentlemen. That brings the closeness to Josef Cap, congratulations, that leaves hope, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Faymann, in the context of the debate on the infrastructure package, we are still going to discuss the further consequences of this election outcome of 28. can talk on September. A consequence is certainly already clear today, and I would like to add that here at the end of this debate: Chancellor's rights to SPÖ, coalition rights for both previous government parties, are certainly not derived from this election outcome, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The big coalition was chosen as usual. The voters still reject this coalition. And don't be subject to the esoteric trick of believing just because now one of your most dangerous competitors has been killed by a tragic accident, it is now almost a justification for the reintroduction or continuation of the great coalition. This is Politvoodoo and has nothing to do with reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You of SPÖ and ÖVP should be aware that your model has been chosen and this country is open to new models, and these models should be based on political fairness and not on diffamation and suspicion.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3519	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. There are also 7 minutes of total residence time available for you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3541	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I can say again: We have had no problem with Madam President Prammer, no problem with Mr Spindelegger, nor, of course, with our President Glavischnig. We will, of course, vote in favour of Mr Prammer's election and Mr Spindelegger's election. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] You probably don't expect me to talk about it now. I am dealing with another problem and another issue which concerns Mr Graf. I do not know what Mr Graf thinks; that is my first problem. I know what Mr Graf's doing. Without a doubt, Mr Pröll, you are right: Col. Graf is an experienced parliamentarian. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: You chose him!]] Only I have to tell you that a committee chairman is not elected here and he is not elected to a public office, but a committee chairman is elected to a committee. He does good or less good work, but it is not a publicly visible office. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is one of the highest offices in this Republic. [[Abg. Strache: Of course, this must not be more liberal in view of the Greens!]] And there it is me and, as I mean, you don't care who does this function. You have also stressed this, I think it is important. Mr. Graf, I don't know what you think. I know that you are president of Hellas-Kagran, a football club, and in this role you have excluded three members because they participated, among other things, in a demonstration against the Count. [[Abg. Strache: Now it is really absurd!]] Okay, there you can say, insignificant, free time. I know, Mr Graf, you are not only the president of a football club, you were also in Seibersdorf, you were in Seibersdorf Procurist and managing director of a company that, above all, has gotten trouble because you only invited burgers into this society and this company, a small subsidiary of Seibersdorf, was once full of burgers, of beating burgers. Believe me, Mr Graf, I have also spoken to people from Seibersdorf, because there have been some who have feared for good reasons what regimes in Seibersdorf have been raised under your aegis. [[Oh, no, no, no,]] You can be of the opinion that all of this is irrelevant. I only say it, I can only judge my colleague Graf by what he is doing and by what he has said, he is a member of the "Olympia", a society which he does not want to announce in this situation and where, of course, one can have different opinions, just as one can differ in the ÖAMTC on the decisions of the ÖAMTC. One thing, Mr Graf, has already been said at this point: The ÖAMTC is not characterized by a stroke of the NS thought – I have never heard anything – but the ÖAMTC is a very normal club, while if you want to be a member of a burgery and “old gentleman” you have to go through certain initiation rites up to the obligation to beat in your citizenship. So it's not like it was any club. Especially when we – and I think Mr Kickl is right – talk about burgers, then such a roll comes down. One can be of a shared opinion about civil society and, in particular, about thrashing societies. [[Abg. May. Stefan: You don't have to join!]] [[Abg. Strache: Karl Marx and Ferdinand Lasalle, for example, were members!]] However, I tell you, Mr Kickl – and this is especially what I am referring to the addresses of the ÖVP and SPÖ Members: The "Olympia" Burschenschaft is not a member of the German Burschenschaft, but is located on the right-wing extremly border within the German Burschenschaft, which has caused a number of citizens to leave because NS thought was spread by the "Olympia" and other citizens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to say something to you, especially to your address, Mr Strache: In January 2008, a certain Jörg Hähnel, his NPD official, was invited to the "Olympia" Burschenschaft, and he was sentenced three days ago in Berlin for approving the murder of Rosa Luxembourg. You go out here and quote in agreement a beautiful set of Rosa Luxembourg: “Freedom is the freedom of the dissidents”. – I don’t know what this Mr. Händel said on the Bud of the “Olympia”! And I don't know if Mr. Frank Rennicke has performed the following poem on the Bude of the “Olympia” where he was twice invited, whose title “Without Adolf goes nothing” is: “Fat up, landdown, in small and large, you will always be hit with ‘Adi’. He hardly knew the world as he did today after he had been burned for a long time. And hang out the rump to the neck, the circus with Adolf, he doesn't die anymore. Get used to it, and it's hard, because without Adolf, there's nothing going on today." Rennicke has also poemd the "Hess-Lied": “With Rudolf Hess a hero is born to us, he is a teacher, a model and a guarantee...” and so on. [[Abg. Strache: What do these precepts have to do with Dr. Graf?]] These are the people who are invited on the Bud of “Olympia” with whom the citizens and the “old gentlemen” of the “Olympia” sing their songs together! This is the state of the "Olympia", Mr. Graf! [[Abg. Strache: These are pure precepts!]] I would have wished you very much, not only in 1987, when you were at this event with Mr Oberlercher Folders, that you would not protect people like Mr Oberlercher from the audience, but that the audience would be protected from statements such as those neonazist, right-wing radicals and anti-Semitic statements of Mr Oberlercher! I wish I had! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Street: The VSStÖ and your green organization have been condemned!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] One can be of much shared opinion. But it cannot be that no clear dividing lines are drawn in terms of National Socialism! But this is the problem of the burgers – and unfortunately also the FPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3714	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. There is a desire to carry out the elections in election cells. I shall therefore proceed in this way.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3750	The first is the election of the President/President of the National Council. There is a proposal for an election on power. Barbara Prammer before. I would point out that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes to other elective candidates. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be made secret to the election of the President, with votes. I am now briefly interrupting the meeting in order to create the technical conditions for the election in election cells. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3801	I'll start the interrupted session again. The preparations are over. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for a little more attention! I can now ask the author, Mr Dr. Haimbuchner, to stay ready. Ladies and gentlemen! The minutes to be used shall be issued by the registrar, together with Kuvert, on behalf of the registrar, of the members of the Parliament's Directorate. For the election only the official voting paper shall be used. In this case, the name of the desired candidate must be written. After completing the poll in the election cell, it must be thrown in the envelope in the supplied urn. I now ask Members to receive their votes and envelopes on behalf of the scribe and then go to one of the voting cells. I would ask the author, Mr Dr. Haimbuchner, to begin with the name call; Member of the European Parliament Auer will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3892	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote has ended. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. To that end, I am interrupting the sitting. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3930	I'll start the interrupted session again. Ladies and gentlemen, I may ask you to take the seats again. I now announce the election result: 182 votes were cast, of which: 168. The absolute majority of valid votes are therefore 85. It was for power. Barbara Prammer140 votes. [[Generally persistent condolences.]] 28 votes were taken by other Members. [[The remaining 28 votes were for the MEPs: Bucher: 1, Bures: 1, Dr. Cap: 3, Dolinschek: 1, Faymann: 1, Dr. Fekter: 1, Hagenhofer: 1, Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: 1, Dr. Graf: 2, Mag. Grossmann: 1, Dr. Jarolim: 1, Königsberger-Ludwig: 1, Mag. Kuntzl: 4, Dr. Matznetter: 1, Pendl: 1, Rudas: 1, Mag. Stadler: 1, Mag. Worm 2, Dr. Van der Bellen: 3.]] The Rules of Procedure require me to tell you that the honourable Members might. BarbaraPrammer has been elected President of the National Council. I would like to tell you that I accept this choice with great joy and gratitude. [[New general consolation made by SPÖ representatives.]] [[Members go to the newly elected President Mag. Prammer and congratulate this one.]] [[11:32:24]] President's address
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4024	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I expressly thank you for your great confidence that you have given me in this election, and I assure you that I will do everything in my power, do everything possible for me, so that I can fulfil the tasks and duties associated with this function accordingly. I would like to fulfill and perceive them for the best. I have always tried in the last two years to carry out my tasks objectively. I know you can't always do it to everyone; I learned it in these two years. But I think – and I would add that too – that I have not always been able to do it right in this function, because the maximum is to ensure that our rules and standards are properly complied with in all situations in an objective way. In this sense, I will continue to strive. It is important for me to always have in mind the working conditions of you, ladies and gentlemen, to make improvements and to develop things further, for example, when it comes to parliamentary staff or to adapt the services of the Parliamentary Directorate to the needs of Members. I am thinking, in particular, of extending the legal and legislative services we need to support the work of the National Council as much as possible. – These are just a few examples I would like to mention in this context. Ladies and gentlemen, the election on 28 October. September has brought with it many changes. Many of you have been praised for the first time today. You have new tasks in front of you. I am convinced that you will be very familiar with these tasks very quickly, and I would also like to assure you that the house is available to you at any time if you want or need support. Something else has changed, namely that for the first time in the Second Republic no political group has the so-called 'block minority'. This means that the importance and need for constructive cooperation in this House will be even higher. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and FPÖ as well as of representatives of ÖVP and BZÖ.]] The result of the efforts to set up a new Federal Government is not yet foreseeable, but it is already clear today that the National Council is very much aware of the new legislative period which is beginning today. To carry out important tasks – tasks that will require our responsibility for the development of our country and for the well-being of our people in particular. This will still be demonstrated at the third session today. The National Council of XXIV. The legislative period is fully operational with today's day. The final meeting of the XXIII meeting. The legislative period has shown that constructive cooperation between the political groups of this House makes it possible to act effectively. I am convinced that many forthcoming meetings will also present us with just this challenge and that the people will measure us precisely in their handling. This cooperation will also be of particular importance in many other issues in the future, which has already been discussed in the debate today. We have the reform of the Rules of Procedure in the XXIII. The legislative period cannot be completed – let me say: We have not achieved it – but we all know how necessary this reform of the Rules of Procedure will be. We have had a lot of discussions in these last two years. Much could be done to a very rapid end, for it has been debated, for example, the Question Time we have in the XXIII. The Commission has already tried the legislative period in the new form. The new legislative period is now about quickly implementing the reforms. I add: We should do everything we can to ensure that this reform can be implemented in good tradition in consensus. I should like to ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to take an active part in this. Finally, there are many other challenges ahead, for example, when the work of the National Council sometimes gives us an impression that does not reflect the full range of the activities of the National Council and therefore often false conclusions are drawn on our parliamentary system as a whole. The insight for citizens is important to counteract misunderstandings and to ensure transparency in order to strengthen people's confidence in politics as a whole. I would also like to mention that the television broadcasts of the National Council meetings have become more and more and more longer in recent years. I am also convinced – and I hope you will give me the right to do so – that this development must also be further promoted in order to bring people even better, faster and more directly closer to our parliamentaryism in the future. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and FPÖ as well as of representatives of ÖVP and BZÖ.]] However, I also add that this requires a high level of discipline from all of us – especially in the question of television broadcasting – because I am convinced that we can only be understood by people and also present a right image of our parliamentaryism. Ladies and gentlemen! Parliament is an open house. On more than 300 days a year, people can visit us, meet MEPs, take part in guided tours or events and have many more possibilities. Every year tens of thousands of people come to our house. During EURO 2008 alone, we had four times as many guests as in the same period of the previous year. There has been criticism over the last few days that Parliament has not held an “Open Day” on the National Day. I would like to address this again today. Ladies and gentlemen, you have seen today in the entrance area, but also in the column hall, what extent the construction site for the construction of the Republic exhibition is still taking place. It has therefore simply not been possible this year to ensure a safe and smooth passage through the High House for people. That was also the reason for this my decision. But in the coming weeks and months there will be a lot of opportunities to visit Parliament, and I would like to invite you, especially the spectators, at this point to attend the Republic Exhibition, which was held on 12 May. Opened in November and will be seen until April. Ladies and gentlemen! With this exhibition, we remember the founding of Austria 90 years ago, our ninety-year history with all its fractures. I add: We want and we have to deal with our story! I would like to stress this as the newly elected President of the National Council, because, by virtue of the law, I also have the chairmanship of the National Fund and the compensation fund. I also added how important it is that we all face the challenge of political education, embedded in a comprehensive sense of history. We are particularly obliged to pass on our responsibility, which we have to bear and exercise in our history, to young people in particular. With the democratic workshop, we have been very intensive in this task in Parliament. Since October 2007 more than 8,000 children and young people have visited the democracy workshop. We will work to expand, improve and invite even more people to gain their own experience with parliamentaryism. I would also like to invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to do so. Those who were members of the House during the last legislative period know how much the democracy workshop lives on the fact that the Members are taking an active part here. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed in the Constitution, I would like to thank all the Members who have been expelled very much. I have already done this in the last session before the summer, would like to do it again today: I would like to thank the outgoing Members for their long-standing work in the service of the Republic. Thank you very much! I would like to add my thanks to the members of the XXIII presidential conference. legislative period. I'm of the opinion: We had a good conversation climate, we had good opportunities to make good decisions! I am already looking forward to working together with the new Presidential Conference. I would like to conclude by thanking our family members, our family members, who are at the latest Today, once again, we have to do a lot of relinquishing so that we can fulfil our task. I would like to wish you all, ladies and gentlemen, all the best and good luck. We're going, as I mean, into a good, forward looking XXIV. legislative period with very, very large political challenges. We will all work together to meet the interests, the needs, the needs of the population. – Thank you! [[General condolences.]] [[11:44]] [[11:44:15]] Election of the Second President
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4173	We shall now proceed to the election of the Second President/second President of the National Council. There is a vote on Dr. Michael Spindelegger. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall also carry out this vote with votes. I would point out that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes made against other electable candidates. The electoral process is the same as before. I now ask the writer Marianne Hagenhofer to start the name call; Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4219	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote has ended. The officials of the House responsible for this will now, as before, make the votes. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4255	I will resume the interrupted session and announce the results of the election: Members cast: 181; of which: 170 votes. The absolute majority of valid votes are therefore 86. Dr. Michael Spindelegger received 142 votes. [[Generally persistent condolences.]] [[Abg. Faymann, Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pröll, Abg. Bitch, Abg. Bucher and Abg. Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek goes to the Member Dr. Spindelegger and congratulates him.]] 28 votes were taken by other Members. Dr. MichaelSpindelegger is thus elected Second President of the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4325	I'm asking the chosen one if he accepts the choice. Deputies Dr Michael Spindelegger (ÖVP): I would like to thank you very much for your confidence and very much to accept the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4349	I congratulate you very much on your choice. Congratulations and all the good! [[General condolences.]] [[12:27:55]] Election of the Third President/third President
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4377	We shall now come to the election of the Third President/third President of the National Council. There are those constituencies that I mentioned earlier. I can repeat: Dr. Martin Graf and Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall also carry out this vote with votes. Again, I draw attention to the fact that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes made against other electable candidates. Here, too, the electoral process is the same. I now ask the scribe, Dr. Manfred Haimbuchner, to begin with the name call; Mr Jakob Auer will replace him later. I should also like to ask Mr Spindelegger to take over the presidency, following a good tradition.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4429	The vote will end. As in the previous elections, the officials of the House will now vote. To that end, I will interrupt the session for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4466	I will resume the interrupted session and announce the results of the election. Members cast: 182; of which: 156. The absolute majority of valid votes are therefore 79. Dr. Martin Graf 109 voted in favour of Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] 20 votes were taken by other Members. [[The remaining 20 votes were for the MEPs: Dr. Fichtenbauer: 12, Graubur: 2, Haubner: 1, Kickl: 1, Mag. Kogler: 1, Mag. Stadler: 1, Steibl: 1, Weinzinger: 1.]] In this way, Deputy Dr. Martin Graf is elected Third President. [[It is in the case of the FPÖ, whose members are raised from the seats, as well as the approval of the ÖVP and of the SPÖ representatives. – In the ranks of the Greens, some MEPs hold a transparency with the title “You have learned nothing from history!” in height.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, we have now seen the Transparent. I can ask you to give it back! Mrs Klubobfrau Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4547	Mr President. Now that we have seen the ballots in a presidential round, I would like to say that there is a reasonable suspicion that this election has not been held secret. There were 34 polls, on which in a very specific way the name of the candidate Count was written in the left corner of the poll, and from my point of view it is not understandable why the decision is so obvious that there is no marking here. I want this to be held. From my point of view, there is a mark here. 34 votes written in a certain way on the ballot, which does not guarantee a secret election.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4582	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Glawischnig, I see this differently. From my point of view, a mark is then available if a certain additional remark has clearly changed this instrument for certain persons, so that one can see who has given it that way. From my point of view, these polls are correct. They bear the name of the candidate Dr. Graf. In my view, the fact that the name is in a particular place of the poll is not to be regarded as a mark. That is why I consider this choice to be valid. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I now ask the elect, Dr. Martin Graf, whether he accepts this choice. Deputies Mag. Dr Martin Graf (FPÖ): I thank you for the great confidence and accept the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4630	I should like to congratulate Mr Martin Graf on his election and ask him to sit in the Bureau. [[President Dr. Graf takes place at the Bureau.]] [[13:20:23]] 3rd. Point Choice of the authors and the folders and folders
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4661	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item: This is the choice of the authors as well as the folders and folders. In accordance with an agreement at the Presidential Conference, I propose that this election be carried out under an elevation from the seats. Is there any objection to this procedure? - That's not the case. I shall therefore proceed in this way. We'll get to the choice. In connection with the choice of the authors and the folders and folders, I would like to make the following proposal: Deputies Marianne Hagenhofer, Mag. Rosa Lohfeyer, Jakob Auer, Anna Franz, Dr. Manfred Haimbuchner. To folders, MEPs Rosemarie Schönpass, Ridi Steibl, Mag are proposed. Harald Stefan, Sigisbert Dolinschek and Dieter Brosz. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this election proposal to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. I assume the elect will accept the election. I therefore ask whether one of the elected does not accept the choice. - That's not the case. The aforementioned ones are elected, and the choice of the authors as well as the folders is carried out. This item on the agenda is therefore also complete. [[13:21:28]] 4. Point Election of the Main Committee
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4793	We come to item 4 of the agenda. This is the election of the main committee. According to § 30 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the number of members of the Main Committee shall be fixed by decision of the National Council. The election takes place according to § 30 para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of electoral lists, with as many Members as one vote in each list as it corresponds to the ratio of the numbers of Members who have subdivided the individual lists. The order of the electoral proposal is crucial for the election, and 27 members are proposed by common accord to the main committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this proposal to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimity and thus adopted. Thus, according to § 30 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure on the SPÖ Club 8 members, on the ÖVP Club 8 members, on the FPÖ Club 5 members, on the BZÖ Club 3 members and on the Green Club also 3 members. On the basis of the lists I have received, the following Members have been elected: from the SPÖ Club: Dr. Josef Cap, Renate Csörgits, Hannes Fazekas, Mag. Elisabeth Grossmann, Marianne Hagenhofer, Anton Heinzl, Kai Jan Krainer and Mag. Barbara Prammer ; from the ÖVP-Klub: May. Katharina Cortolezis-Schlager, Karl Donabauer, Fritz Grillitsch, Mag. Peter Michael Ikrath, Fritz Neugebauer, Dorothea Schittenhelm, Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel and Dr. Michael Spindelegger ; from the FPÖ Club: Heinz-Christian Strache, Dr. Martin Graf, Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, Dr. Johannes Hübner and Dr. Walter Rosenkranz ; from BZÖ-Klub: Josef Bucher, Gerald Grosz and Mag. Ewald Stadler ; of the Club of the Greens: Dr. Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mag. Ulrike Lunacek and Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen. This also involves the election and appointment of the members of the main committee. [[13:23:22]] 5. Point Election of permanent committees (Incompatibilities Committee, Immunities Committee, Financial Committee)
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5037	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item: This is the choice of permanent committees. I would like to begin with the following permanent committees: Incompatibilities Committee, Immunities Committee and Financial Committee. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of setting up the committees referred to above to be a sign of this. – This is unanimously accepted. According to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Council shall determine the number of members and alternate members of each committee. Members and alternate members shall be distributed to parliamentary clubs in proportion to the number of Members who belong to them in accordance with the principles laid down in section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The clubs shall make the members of the committee and substitute members of the committee appointed to the President, who shall be deemed to be elected. After consulting at the Presidential Conference, a number of 17 members and substitute members are now proposed by common accord for the Inconsistency Committee and the Immunities Committee, each of which is divided into the political groups as follows: 5 members and replacement members each to the SPÖ, 5 members and replacement members to the ÖVP, 3 members and replacement members to the FPÖ, 2 members and replacement members to the BZÖ, 2 members and 2 members to the Greens. A committee size of 27 members and replacement members is proposed for the Financial Committee. These are distributed to the political groups as follows: 8 members and replacement members each to the SPÖ, 8 members and replacement members to the ÖVP, 5 members and replacement members to FPÖ, 3 members and replacement members to the BZÖ, 3 members and 3 members to the Greens. We shall come to the vote. First of all, I shall vote on the committee size of the Inconsistency Committee and the Immunities Committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for a committee size of 17 members and replacement members to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. I shall now vote on the Committee's size. Those ladies and gentlemen, who are over a committee size of 27 members and replacement members, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. The names of the members or substitutes who have been announced by the sections of the presidents as members and thus as elected Members are listed in the Stenographical Protocol. [[See Annex p. 47.]] [[13:25:53]] 6. Point Election of members to be sent by the National Council and substitute members of the Standing Joint Committee of the National Council and of the Federal Council within the meaning of Section 9 of the Constitutional Act 1948
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5138	We shall now proceed to the 6th and the last item on the agenda: This is the choice of the members to be sent by the National Council and substitute members of the Standing Joint Committee of the National Council and the Federal Council within the meaning of § 9 of the Financial Constitution Law 1948. The Committee consists of a total of 26 members who are elected to half of the National Council and the Federal Council. With regard to the 13 members of the National Council, to which 13 additional substitute members are added, four members of SPÖ and ÖVP are proposed, two members of FPÖ and BZÖ and one member of the Greens, each of them agreeing in the presidential conference. I have the following constituency proposals: As members: from the SPÖ Club: Franz Kirchgatterer, Elmar Mayer, Walter Schopf and Peter Duster; from the ÖVP-Klub: Jakob Auer, Dr. Johannes Hahn, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka and Dr. Günter Stummvoll; from the FPÖ Club: Lutz Weinzinger and Bernhard Themessl ; from BZÖ-Klub: Josef Bucher and Mag. Ewald Stadler; from the Green Club: Werner Kogler. As replacement members: from the SPÖ Club: Wilhelm Haberzettl, Gerhard Köfer, Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig, Stefan Prehauser ; from the ÖVP-Klub: Fritz Grillitsch, Karlheinz Kopf, Dorothea Schittenhelm and August Wöginger ; from the FPÖ Club: Alois Grastaur and Anneliese Kitzmüller; from BZÖ-Klub: Ursula Haubner and Christoph Hagen ; from the Green Club: Dr. Ruperta Lichtenecker. Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the proposals. Is there any objection to voting on the proposals? This is not the case. We shall therefore proceed to the vote immediately. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the election of these Members, as I have announced them, to have a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. This choice has also been made. The agenda is exhausted. [[13:27:51]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5405	There is a written request from 20 Members, the proposed version of the Official Protocol as regards: to read item 4 on the election of the main committee, item 5 on the election of permanent committees (inconsistency committee, immunity committee, financial committee) and item 6 on the election of members to be sent by the National Council and substitute members of the Standing Joint Committee of the National Council and the Federal Council within the meaning of Section 9 of the Financial Constitution Act 1948 in order to be deemed approved at the end of the meeting. I shall therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol. ‘TO point 4: Election of the Main Committee The number of members of the main committee shall be fixed unanimously by 27. (The SPÖ Club therefore has 8 members, the ÖVP club 8 members, the FPÖ club 5 members, the BZÖ club 3 members and the Green Club 3 members.) On the basis of the lists submitted, the following Members shall be deemed to be elected: From the SPÖ Club: Dr. Josef Cap, Renate Csörgits, Hannes Fazekas, Mag. Elisabeth Grossmann, Marianne Hagenhofer, Anton Heinzl, Kai Jan Krainer, Mag. Barbara Prammer. From the ÖVP Club: May. Katharina Cortolezis-Schlager, Karl Donabauer, Fritz Grillitsch, Mag. Peter Michael Ikrath, Fritz Neugebauer, Dorothea Schittenhelm, Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, Dr. Michael Spindelegger. From the FPÖ Club: Heinz-Christian Strache, Dr. Martin Graf, Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, Dr. Johannes Hübner, Dr. Walter Rosenkranz. From BZÖ-Klub: Josef Bucher, Gerald Grosz, Mag. Ewald Stadler. From the Green Club: Dr. Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek, Mag. Ulrike Lunacek, Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen. To-do point 5: Election of permanent committees (Incompatibilities Committee, Immunities Committee, Financial Committee) The establishment of the Incompatibilities Committee, the Immunities Committee and the Financial Committee shall be decided unanimously. A number of 17 members and 17 replacement members shall be adopted unanimously for the Incompatibilities Committee and the Immunities Committee. Therefore, the following can be noted: SPÖ each 5 members and replacement members ÖVP per 5 members and replacement members FPÖ per 3 members and replacement members BZÖ each two members and replacement members Greens per 2 members and replacement members. A committee size of 27 members and replacement members shall be fixed unanimously for the Financial Committee. These are distributed among the political groups as follows: SPÖ each 8 members and replacement members ÖVP per 8 members and replacement members FPÖ per 5 members and replacement members BZÖ per 3 members and replacement members Greens per 3 members and replacement members. To point 6: Election of members to be sent by the National Council and substitute members of the Standing Joint Committee of the National Council and of the Federal Council within the meaning of Section 9 of the Financial Constitution Law 1948. The number of members to be elected by the National Council. The number of replacement members is 13. On the basis of an agreement reached at the Presidential Conference, the SPÖ shall propose four members and replacement members each; by the ÖVP each four members and replacement members; by the FPÖ each two members and replacement members; by the BZÖ each two members and replacement members; and by the Greens each one member and one replacement member. Members shall be elected unanimously: SPÖ: Franz Kirchgatterer, Elmar Mayer, Walter Schopf, Peter Duster. ÖVP: Jakob Auer, Dr. Johannes Hahn, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll. FPÖ: Lutz Weinzinger, Bernhard Themessl. BZÖ: Josef Bucher, Mag. Ewald Stadler. Green: May. Werner Kogler. Substitute members shall be elected unanimously: SPÖ: Wilhelm Haberzettl, Gerhard Köfer, Mag. Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig, Stefan Prehauser. ÖVP: Fritz Grillitsch, Karlheinz Kopf, Dorothea Schittenhelm, August Wöginger. FPÖ: Alois Grastaur, Anneliese Kitzmüller. BZÖ: Ursula Haubner, Christoph Hagen. Green: Dr. Ruperta Lichtenecker’. Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 with the end of this meeting as approved. [[13:32:14]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2008-10-28-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5720	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 1/A to 38/A have been tabled. Question No 1/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for 13.32 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting is closed.
