ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 1429-B, which was first approved by the Senate and first amended by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that the general debate was concluded at yesterday's sitting. I call the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u9	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, the road that has led us to this point today began many years ago, almost seventy years ago, with our Constitutional Charter. We know that our Constitution was not the result of a miracle, of fortuitous circumstances that were created at that time, nor of a simple reaction to the experience of dictatorship or world conflict, but it is, as far as the fundamental principles are concerned, the values contained in our Constitution, of a path matured over the decades and centuries, a path of values shared by our community, by our people, a common feeling that has led to the recognition in Constitution of the unity of the country, the values of economic, political, social solidarity and the defence of the Homeland. Since the adoption of the Constitutional Charter the members of the constituent assembly were aware of the great achievement achieved, therefore of the great sharing over the whole of Part I of the Constitution; so much so that Ruini, on December 22, 1947, said that this Constitution would never end, to last forever, recognizing the great work done on Part I. Already then Ruini himself recognized that, instead, Part II was the result of an agreement between very different positions in the constituent assembly and therefore (like all agreements and compromises, albeit high) left doubts and doubts, in particular on the part relating to the composition of the Senate and on the legislation, not included in the Constitution, concerning the electoral system, so much so that President De Nicola, since 1948, wanted to set up here in the Senate a study committee to review the composition of the Senate itself. Therefore, the discussion about the organization of the state on the territory, the functions, the role of the Senate and its composition begins almost seventy years ago and, in some way, runs through our entire republican history, both in the academic debate among scholars, and of course in the political confrontation. Let's think of the comparison that occurred, in the early 1970s, on the need for constitutional reforms and especially on the reform of the Senate, between Mortati and Bozzi. This was a very lively debate, which continued until the establishment of the first Bozzi bicameral commission in the early 1980s and the De Mita-Iotti bicameral commission in the early 1990s. We are well aware of the successes and failures of the following attempts, of the D'Alema bicameral Commission, of the reforms approved in Parliament, which did not pass the scrutiny of the 2006 referendum and therefore the judgment of the citizens, and of Violante's proposal, which never came to this House, but remained in the proceedings, having simply been approved in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In the more recent years, the debate and the debate have had a new impetus, thanks also to the great attention and the reforming tension that President Napolitano has carried out in his two mandates and in particular at the beginning of his second term, in the current legislature, which led to the establishment of the Committee of Wise Men and then to the Committee of the thirty-five experts wanted by the Letta Government. Therefore, the constitutional bill presented by our Government is only the last link in a chain, a debate, a confrontation, an attempt at constitutional reform that has gone through the previous decades, and is therefore not the result of an extemporaneous attempt, nor certainly an approximation. It has reaped the results of that work, proposing a reform that is certainly ambitious, which today can be bolder than in the past, because certain values of representativeness and democracy are now well established and rooted in our society, thanks to our Constitution. Today we can therefore think of closing open pages, blank pages, already left by the Constituents, precisely because then it was not possible to find on all a convincing and effective point of agreement. This reform therefore aims to overcome the prefect bicameralism, identifying a simpler and more streamlined legislative procedure, through the possibility of identifying certain times for the legislative procedure, with a decisive value of the Chamber of Deputies, as the only branch of Parliament bound by a relationship of trust with the Government and therefore holder of political direction, and with a Senate that certainly sees its functions changed, which maintains important and fundamental competences in terms of constitutional revision and for some bicameral law certainly important, but which, for the remaining legislative procedures, has only a power of proposal to modify, having then the Chamber of Deputies the final word. The Senate has above all an important role of connection, of zipper, between the central state and the territories, between the central state, the regions and the municipalities. That is why, regardless of the choice made on the model of identifying senators, at the electoral level, the fundamental element is that the senators remain regional advisers and mayors and therefore, in some way, can play this role of liaison and participate from the beginning in the choices at national level, therefore trying to overcome that conflict, that today exists between the central state and the regions, not being well defined the boundaries with respect to the competences and the legislative powers, so much so that, often, to decide for the citizens it is neither Parliament nor the regional councils, but it is the Constitutional Court, that is obliged to carry out a role that is not even properly that for which it was initially thought: where there is such a wide conflict, in order to resolve such conflicts, in fact, it replaces substantially in the choices. With the constitutional reform, a greater definition of the role of the State and the Regions will allow to overcome this conflict, reassigned to the State also some important legislative competences exclusively, because they are strategic choices in terms of environment, energy and infrastructure. I was saying that it is certainly an ambitious reform proposed by the Government, but that it is no longer only the Government today: it is fully Parliament's, because it has already passed an important vote a year ago in this House, with a very large majority then, and it was reaffirmed and confirmed a few months ago by the choice of the Chamber of Deputies. It is therefore fully a reform of Parliament and thanks to the fundamental role played by Parliament in these eighteen months it has also been partly modified in relation to the initial proposal of the Government, precisely because the confrontation and dialogue between the Government and the political forces in Parliament has been concrete and real and has therefore led to tangible results. If we look at the work that has been done so far in the Commission and in the House, both in the Senate and in the House, we can see that more than 529,000 amendments have been tabled, apart from the amendments that we will have to look at in this House and which have been tabled here in the Senate yesterday, of which 4,440 have been voted, there have been more than 3,600 speeches by Members and Senators, there have been more than 120 sessions devoted to constitutional reforms and the text of the Government has been modified to 134 points between the House and the Senate. It is therefore a work which has been enriched by the indispensable and valuable tribute of Members of Parliament. To have a comparison, we think that in the work of the constituent assembly, which wrote the entire Constitutional Charter, the speeches were just over 1,000 and the amendments only 1.613; therefore, the work that has been done in these eighteen months has certainly been rich and thorough. We will see what will happen in the examination to which the amendments will be submitted in this House and therefore the choices that will be made, but today that work has also led to the identification of further points of convergence within the majority forces, which I hope will then provide a basis for a broader consensus that goes beyond the forces that support the Government. Certainly, however, we have always recognised the fundamental role, the sacred value of Parliament, and for us the value that everyone in this House has is certainly higher than automatically generating amendments, because we believe in the value of political confrontation, not in the application of an algorithm for the production of obstructive amendments. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] We know that this legislature was born badly and probably also ran the risk of dying in bands at its beginning, for the nodes that we could not dissolve after the 2013 elections. Fortunately, however, we were able to demonstrate together that politics could take a revenge, it could prove that it was able to assume its responsibilities, it could prove that it was able to make those choices that democracy needs, because democracy needs people who are also able to take responsibility and make choices. The work we have done in these eighteen months has led to the approval of many reforms that have long been expected: we think of the civil responsibility of the magistrates, of all the discipline against environmental crimes, of the establishment of a national anti-corruption authority, of the reform of the labour market, of the public administration [[Comments of Senator Castaldi]] , to the approval of the electoral law after ten years during which we were unable to approve it, to a serious plan of reduction of taxes. All this has been possible thanks to the role that has been played by politics and Parliament, and thanks to these reforms Italy has set in motion today. With our reforms and your reforms, there has again been a hope in Italy, which today has become a land of opportunity. Obviously, the role played by politics cannot yet be said to be over. We know that these constitutional reforms are partly the premise and partly the conclusion of a very long path. Today we are one step away from the finish line. I therefore appeal to all the political forces present in this House and present in this House. I believe that we will have to use the next few days to try to find a broad agreement and consensus here, because it is about constitutional reforms, trying to give priority to those elements that we share and unite us. I think that we all agree on overcoming the perfect bicameralism, on having a more streamlined legislative process, on having regions that work better and on abolishing some useless bodies. I believe that even within the groups that have not yet decided to vote yes to these reforms there may be different views and comparisons can be made. I hope that the next few days will serve precisely to create a broad understanding and to create a consensus towards reforms that have a single objective: to make Italy simpler. And these reforms make Italy easier. Of course, these are constitutional reforms and until the last minute we will leave nothing in the way of confrontation and dialogue. But let us also be clear that we cannot accept vetoes from anyone, because we know that this is really the decisive turn and the credibility of our country, even at international level, also passes through these reforms. So to you, ladies senators and senators, the choice in the next few days whether to try to keep our country in the past or accompany it by the hand in the future. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u10	A request from Senator Calderoli was received from the Presidency not to proceed to the examination of the articles of the draft constitutional law on the agenda, in accordance with Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure. Before I give the floor to Senator Calderoli, I'd like to know if there are any other requests to that effect.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u13	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I have asked you to speak for the same reason: there is also a distressing request on our part that we do not move on to the examination of the articles. Although I agree - as the Minister asked just now - on overcoming bicameralism, on a more streamlined procedure and on a greater and decisive turn towards a complete subsidiarity, it seems to us that a very different and dangerous design is being carried out here. So we associate ourselves with the request, which we will discuss after the intervention of Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u16	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I think it's appropriate if we have to do the work... AIROLA (M5S). I had already asked for the floor on the order of business! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Campanella, I'm sorry, I asked if there were any other requests for no passage to the article review. CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). I asked to talk before you started talking about this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is First of all, there is the request that Senator Calderoli, who joined Senator Endrizzi, should not proceed to the examination of the articles already presented. We'll talk about the order of business later.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u19	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I too would like to make a request not to move on to the examination of the articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u22	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I too, under Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure, would ask that we do not proceed to the examination of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u25	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I listened carefully to the Minister's speech, but I could not understand whether I was awake or asleep: I felt that I was living a dream or rather a nightmare, because everything was being talked about less about what has been discussed these days. Madam Minister, we are facing a constitutional reform which still has a number of points that need to be resolved. And perhaps someone would have expected a reply in response to those points that have been put forward by my fellow Members during this debate. His speech, on the other hand, I don't know if he would remind me more of reading a small page of Wikipedia with the history of the Constituent, or a discussion of a degree paper. But here we are in Parliament! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni]] On the subject, I acknowledge that improvements, with amendments shared within the majority, have been made: on the Constitutional Court there has been a step forward (and I believe it is a concrete step) returning to the text of the Senate; Article 1 has seen a reassignment of functions to the Senate, and it must be agreed that the text out of the Senate was certainly better than that out of the House. There's one, though. If one sets out the principles of Article 1 and does not follow Article 10, where the legislative function is concerned, then we have stated a great principle that we have not filled with content: that is, the Senate is assigned functions which, in fact, it will not perform. We come to the famous article 2, with direct election. What has been proposed is a real patacca, because it is not possible to write "in accordance with the choices expressed by voters" in paragraph 5 and at the same time to provide, in paragraph 2 of Article 2, that "regional councils (...) elect ". It is true that the atom can be separated, but does the Regional Council have an obligation or not to confirm the choices of the citizens? Either it has the obligation, and then it is no longer a question of election but of ratification: and then in paragraph 2 we write "ratification", or it has no obligation, and then it is not the people that chooses, but the Regional Council. [[Applause from Senator Bell.]] I do not respond to the speeches I have read today in the newspapers, but I have read a very interesting interview with you, President Grasso, where you called all political forces to the fact that a constitutional reform should also have the requirement of constitutionality in relation to the fundamental principles of the Constitution. If a reform runs counter to Article 1 of the Constitution, where it is said that sovereignty belongs to the people, and not to the regional councils, I am sorry but everything falls. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Therefore, I remain in favour of not switching to the articles. What are the points still under discussion? I have not seen any reply, although I know that there are strong concerns about Article 30 by the majority. In fact, to decide, with a mechanism so complicated as to make the measure unrealizable, that you can assign additional functions to the Regions, when these functions were already placed at the head of the Regions themselves, it really seems to me a mockery. Article 31 to delete the concurrent matter took it all and placed it at the head of the State and, moreover, the synonyms found for the concurrent matter are eight in place of one. Someone's done the math of what the Senate should do with my amendments. I am sure that, if the Constitutional Court has taken four to five years to settle the concurrent matter, with eight synonyms it will take forty years to resolve the concurrent matter and the conflicts between the State and the Regions. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] Is it possible that no one has received, from their governors and regional councillors, protests, which complained about the transformation of the Region into an administrative body, which, among other things, are denied the resources to be able to function? Didn't anyone tell you? I hope that in the course of the examination of the measure - if we arrive - someone will finally have the courage to carry on the need of the regions and territories, because I remember that there is Article 119 of the Constitution which provides for the financial autonomy of the local authorities. It is not possible that the financial autonomy of the local authorities is put in charge only of the Chamber of Deputies: there is the State, (thanks to Italicum) one man only under the command and all the others who obey and live or survive with the constant cutting of resources of all the others. Mr President, on the subject of the debate (perhaps created ad hoc) on the electivity that has been resolved with that papocchio, someone has to explain to me how to table an amendment to Article 2 forgetting the content of paragraph 1 of Article 39 (Transitional provisions) in which it is written that it is the regional advisers who elect the senators. This is what will happen the first time, after which the law of the state will intervene. But since the law of the State must be subjected to double reading, do you really think that the regional councillors, who have the power of active and passive electorate and who divide the senators among themselves, will ever approve that provision? They will never do so and the transitional arrangement will last forever. [[Applause from LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII, M5S and Senator Bignami]] To the friends who have resisted and conducted battles on direct electivity I say that the battle must be done to the end, otherwise it is a total mockery, as the whole provision is. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups and Senators Bignami, Mussini and Simeoni]] Mr President, I have tabled amendments and I have heard that the Minister referred to an algorithm; but if those amendments were written only with an algorithm any computer expert could create the algorithm to solve it. It is clear that if I alone - I do not believe that this is possible, but this accusation has been made to me - I am able to block Parliament either you are scarce or there is something that does not work in the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups and Senators Bignami and Mussini]] Some may say that I am making an attack on democracy if I do not respect the Rules of Procedure, but there is nothing in the Rules of Procedure about the number of amendments I can table. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami.]] Because I believe in the system of weights and counterweights (no one has tabled that amendment, no one has raised the problem in response), someone has to explain to me how conceivable is a constitutional system in which a President can be elected by 220 votes as there is an electoral law that guarantees 340 only to the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bignami and Campanella.]] Does this guarantee balance? No! Then perhaps my millions of amendments are more balanced if they serve to rebalance the whole thing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups and Senators Bignami, Mussini and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u28	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to make the last appeal, in particular to my colleagues in the majority: Stop! Stop this composite and colorful armed that you are putting up and that you have set up even in these days as if it were the result of the action of provincial venture captains, aimed only then in the content to attack, degrade and mortify the oldest institution that the history of our Italy has entrusted us that the world reveres and imitates. We are so extraneous but we cannot understand what is assumed from abroad as a good of our history. Stop and use your army for what the country really needs: the reform of territorial autonomy, the drastic reduction of their weight on public spending, the introduction of presidentialism. Do you not realize that this reform decrees the massacre of the State? Of course, it's a breakthrough! But it is not in the desired sense, it is not in the sense that it really serves the country. It is in the opposite direction. Two changes would have been enough to really change Italy: to Title V, intervening on the reduction of the Regions and the presidentialism for the consolidation of the activity of the Central Government. These two reforms would have been enough. France, governed by a left-wing majority, by a President elected by the left, since 1 January 2016 reduces its Regions from twenty-four to twelve; Denmark has even abolished them: these countries go in the modern sense of losing the weight of the State towards public spending. Instead, you have addressed and decided on the amendment, the changes, the adjustments of this Part II of the Constitution in the same spirit in which you have dealt with the abolition of the Provinces: mutations, not reforms, and double assignments. How many rivers of words have I listened to on your political side over the years against the double positions of Members of Parliament, Senator Azzollini, do I say incorrect things? And today you legitimize double office even in the Constitution, after legitimizing it in the reform of the Provinces with ordinary law. You have completely changed your mind on this subject and I do not believe for noble ideological reasons, but certainly for political opportunism, for a logic of division of places. These last amendments, which you are proposing to us, are the result of an internal corporal debate in which, apart from all your declarations of noble openness to everyone's contribution, you have not once again felt that you should also listen to the opposition, as should be done in a constitutional reform, as you said for years when we were ruling. These last amendments are incomprehensible, unworkable, as Senator Calderoli said absolutely inconsistent within the same text; I would like to say instrumentally inconsistent, Senator Calderoli, within the same text and then not implement them. These last amendments, triumphantly presented, what else are they but the fig leaf for the unconditional surrender of those who tried to assert principles such as that of popular sovereignty against the protection of numbers and against the ignorance of proposals? Even today, in the Government's reply, we have heard a series of statistics snub, worthy of more than a hearing of ISTAT in the Commission than of a debate of the High House - I do not know how much - on the constitutional reform of our Parliament. Yet, we have tried to cooperate, not to curb, but today we are deeply disappointed and worried about the fate of democracy in our country, about the same keeping of its territorial and social cohesion and therefore we reiterate the appeal that we will repeat until we have given the last chance: stop, you are destroying the country and perhaps you do not realize it. Think that the only word "reform" can nourish who knows what new season of a country that instead needs much more to resume its economy, its social estate, its fight against poverty, in order to start the resumption of its infrastructure and its international competitiveness. Stop, so you don't solve anything. Let us once again discuss, possibly also, as I have always argued, by a different means, since the proof of the facts is that Parliament is too conditioned by the protection of government activity in order to be able to calmly decide on the fundamental Charter of the country that is the Constitution. Stop and we reason: we are in time, for the next political elections, to launch a real project of reform of the Constitution, also - this has always been my personal thought - through the election of a constituent Assembly that can reason without the pressures that come from the daily and from reasons of governability of the country. For this reason, Mr President, and for many other reasons which I do not have time to explain now, we ask that we do not go into the articles of this bill. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u31	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, never before, as at this time, does the request for no transition to the examination of the articles really refer to a careful examination of what has been the progress made, so far, on these constitutional reforms. You see, Mr President, you, of course, could not listen to my final speech yesterday, but I, with all those who have been passionate about the battle on this text of constitutional reforms, have reproposed what were the issues on which, in our opinion, we could, from the beginning, choose the path of a high synthesis and a path at the service of the republican institutions, to give them back strength and vigour, starting with the issue of relations with the citizens. Initially, we thought that serious work could be done to ensure that the now dramatic rift between citizens and institutions could settle, for example by reinvigorating all the means of direct and popular participation. In fact, if an issue had to be addressed, first of all it had to be to ensure that citizens could again feel part of this Republic and part of a real relationship of trust with the institutions, which everyone pretends to pursue while, for the reality, abstaining: do we want to remember here the comments of the President of the Council when there was 37% of participation in the regional elections of Emilia-Romagna? Instead of picking up the alarm cry! And there were many possibilities to do this and with a very wide sharing. I do not want to entertain myself again about overcoming the bicameralism of equality, but we had to make sure that we chose a path not only that it had a rationality, but also that it did not call into question the sacred principle of popular sovereignty. We could really reduce the number of parliamentarians and not have a hyperpletoric Chamber like the House of Deputies, reaching a balanced reduction that would, of course, have given a different system. Precisely because the democratic systems are made up of a harmony that must exist in the system of controls and balances, on this aspect and on the final effect that was obtained, it was necessary to be very careful, because democracy is made of this. As far as we are concerned, since the first examination we have tried unnecessarily to make you think about a proposal that was very rational: a Senate that had certainly different but very high functions, that really exercised control and had a very wide competence, especially in relation to regional laws and the European Union. But I don't want to go too far on this one. Another path has been taken and a wrong path has been chosen, because certainly the one outlined will not be the Senate of the Regions, as the Presidents of the Regions have pointed out. It was then possible to follow the Bundesrat route. On the other hand, choices have been made that make no sense but to change the form of government of this country in fact without saying it, without writing it down and making Parliament a slave, a handmaid of the Commission, and you, President, know that there have been strong references to this. In fact, all that has happened in recent days, pressing invitations and intimidation, are the premonitory sign of what may happen. With regard to the question of the direct election of senators, frankly we did not understand, and the Minister continues not to give us a minimum of rational explanation about it, why he wanted to make the Senate a post-worker, as has been defined by someone, that is something useless that could also be harmful. Even the amendment tabled by Senator Finocchiaro concerning functions does not seem to me to restore full dignity to them. Furthermore, the real point has not been explained to us, namely the refusal to arrive at a real and serious discussion on the question of the popular legitimacy of the Senate and therefore of direct election. She chose a path that is a papocchio. Yesterday I already raised the question of the fact that the expression "in conformity" can be interpreted in many different ways. The node remains, however, that the senators, in the end, will be elected to second degree within the Regional Councils. I have also raised the question of Article 39, which is not a case which has not been addressed, precisely to give consistency to that Article in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty. It is therefore a mockery, Mr President, and I am very sorry that friends and colleagues who have fought a hard battle on the question of Article 2, in the end, are content or pretend to be content, perhaps for the supreme good of their party, with a change that does not change the true sense and the substance of things. It does not change, as many constitutionalists have already written this morning and will obviously continue to write, then everyone can console as he wants. So, as you can see, we are heading towards a goal that is certainly not to be celebrated. The Constitutional Charter, and especially Part I, needed to be reinvigorated, better applied, strengthened. Our institutional system needed serious reflection on the issue of regions and not another regulatory papocchio. There was therefore a need, even after the passage to the Chamber, to make serious reasoning. What happened? There's only been evidence of force, you can't turn it on the others now. In fact, a sitting was held in the Commission, perhaps on the very day when there was talk of inadmissibility, and then running directly to the House, knowing perfectly well that there were many open nodes and that, beyond the reform approach, it was necessary to put in hand to avoid the messes, irrationality and inconsistencies that are present in the text. All this work did not want to be done. As usual, it was intended to be a test of strength and to come to the House. I also say to you, Mr President, that it did not end with the amendment tabled by the majority and by President Finocchiaro. We cannot believe that the whole debate on Article 2 and the Senate can now be closed and resolved with that amendment. This is also about your responsibility. As far as we are concerned, I believe that if you set criteria for the admissibility of the amendments, as I have already said, we would get stuck with our amendments on the substance alone, having the certainty and the guarantee that in this House all the amendments that try to ensure that at least Article 1 of the Constitution is respected can not be declared inadmissible. I would also like to say something to Mr Boschi, who is also concerned with this House. Last week - you, Minister, occasionally take part in the meetings of the Conference of Leaders - this House once again voted against the proposal to schedule the measure on civil unions, also removing the term 'where concluded in the Commission'. You are instrumental in clearing this up because you do not have the courage: while for constitutional reform you can come to the House without rapporteur, bypassing the Commission, for civil unions you cannot do so. What do you do now? It comes out with the finding that it is the fault of SEL's amendments if civil unions are not made. You should be ashamed! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senators Campanella and Simeoni.]] In recent months you have never had the courage to come to this House, so that everyone could assume, as you say, their responsibilities. There are the acts, there are the reports of everything we have done: you have refused, you have voted repeatedly to ensure that the provision on civil unions does not arrive in this House, and today it is also a little childish the attempt you make. You should assume your responsibilities, because we have always assumed them, as we have assumed them in the face of this terrible reform. We demand to the full that we have used all our energies and instruments to prevent the change in the Constitutional Charter! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senators Campanella and Simeoni.]] When in four or five years' time - because this reform will not last long - someone else will be forced to take note of the terrible and devastating results it produces on our institutional system, at least someone will remember that there have been senators in this House who have tried to defend the Constitutional Charter and, above all, to prevent a devastating constitutional reform. We therefore call for the non-passionate examination of the articles, Mr President, and, I repeat, no one to dare any more, for their comfortable and low interests, to use the issues concerning constitutional reforms and a sacrosanct battle for other purposes, as is the case with the shameful interviews that are being given in these hours. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senators Campanella and Lucidi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u34	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, to tell the truth, my joining President Calderoli's proposal does not have a merely declamation end. I would like to ask for a few seconds the willingness and attention of my colleague, Mr Zanda, President Finocchiaro and, if possible, of the Government, to reflect on a very simple fact. President Zanda, I would particularly like to ask for your attention. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mauro, speak to the Chamber. MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). In the reasons that President Finocchiaro also gave at the Conference of the Leaders, for which it was no longer possible to keep the measure in the Commission, there was the impossibility of reaching political agreement on points of law. My question is very simple and motivates us to join the proposal not to move on to the articles. If this agreement has been found, what prevents a return to the Commission, for a very limited time, in order to find solutions to other difficult problems? And what are these problems? I would like everyone, the Government first, to reflect on the fact that rules have been written which, by overlapping the text of the reform that came out of the House with the text of the Constitution, make no sense. In the basic text it is written that the decree-laws lose their effect from the beginning (Article 77 of the Constitution) if they are not converted into law within sixty days of their publication. In another part of the new text, we have instead written that, pursuant to Article 70, third and fourth paragraphs, the examination of the bills of conversion of decrees-laws is ordered by the Senate of the Republic within thirty days of their submission to the Chamber of Deputies. Proposals for amendments may be decided within ten days of the date of transmission of the bill of conversion, which shall take place no later than forty days after submission. So, in fact, we have a text in the Constitution that, if sic statibus rebus were to be launched, would not clarify whether this decision is taken in forty or sixty days. This work, which is typical of the Commission, is necessary and cannot be imagined to solve it by mere coordination work. I ask myself and you, therefore, if it is not appropriate, at this point, to have the text passed to the Commission. There is another reason, however, which I would ask you to tell me, Mr President: it says in the text that amnesty is the competence of the House of Deputies, in which a party will have an absolute majority. As soon as that party can commit a crime one day and amnesti in the next, what kind of objective functionality will our Constitution have? Again, I increase the dose: if we have given space and time for a solution to a problem of political agreement within the PD, why not consider the request for political agreement that comes from a party like Forza Italia, which until yesterday supported some passages of this path? In the Commission, perhaps, we can find an objectively open majority so that this is the Constitution of all. [[Applause from Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u37	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I will not repeat all the technical flaws that have been put forward, with the clarification that the adjective 'technical' should not suggest that these are boring things, because we are talking about the pillars of democracy and therefore a technical flaw in the Constitution is something very serious. Nevertheless, I will not repeat all the flaws that have been exposed, but I will mention one that has not been said so far: the idea of a President of the Republic who chooses some senators, who will last in office not as long as the Assemblies from which they derive or at least as much as the Senate, but for the whole seven-year period; then, then, they will elect the new President. We heard the following comments at the hearing: Well, this is not something that can be written in a Constitution. That's what professors have said, not myself, but experts, people who have an esteemed and honored career. But what good are auditions if what is said comes in one ear and comes out the other? So I will not repeat myself. Instead, I must explain here to you, but also and above all to the citizens, why the 5 Star Movement, which has made so many proposals to achieve a useful, fair, coherent and effective constitutional reform, today says: Let's stop here, there are no more conditions. In other times, we have felt ourselves calling ourselves "retrogrades" and "conservatives." I would ask you, however, Mr President, if it is more conservative who is asking us today to stop, in the name of democracy, in order not to make a disaster, or who, on the contrary, pervicaciously wants to face this disaster, because he already knows that he is taking part in it. This I must explain, because we stop: we do it because there is no longer a rag of guarantee that something worthy will come from here. This House was not entitled to legislate beyond the ordinary, after the decision of the Constitutional Court: we should have gone back to elections with a proportional system, to create an assembly that could be a constituent [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , from a formal but also substantial point of view, and instead here, this House is going to vote on a Parliament of nominations. There is no rag of guarantee at the moment when we see that the Government is presenting the proposal, that in the Commission the majorities are forced to replace and purify the dissidents of the PD, because otherwise this reform cannot be done in the way the Government wants. It can't be done, I say instead, how should it be done. So the text of the government has been voted, there has even been the disarray of a text that has come to this House by skipping the passage to the Commission, because it is in the Commission that perhaps, at the limit, there can be that dialogue, that closer relationship between people and political forces that look into their eyes. I don't see their eyes here, they're far away; even their presidents, I don't see them in here. On the other hand, the move to the Commission was missed because the Government wanted to do so, and then dictated the timing of the examination. I have already done so in a previous speech, President Mattarella did so when in a previous constitutional reform he said that during the work between the benches there was no government. In the work of the first Constituent there was no government when it was discussed in the Chamber: the Government left room for the Constituent. Today we have the occupation of every space by the government, even temporal with the quota of the times of the debate. At this point we can no longer pretend to be able to remedy it by means of an amendment phase, because there too laces and laces have been fixed. It has been prevented from amending outside the black, knowing very well that most of the audit professors during this reading have said that the Constitution we are bringing to the House is full of flaws, even in the text that has passed the so-called double approval in a text that is consistent. We cannot give birth to a text that gradually narrows down, forgetting that the pillars are corrupted in all the articles of the reform. Today, then, we must have a clear awareness that nothing will happen in the amending phase. That is why we are proposing that the articles should not be examined, because we have lost all hope that there will be democracy in here. But so that someone does not have to say that we are on the front of the no, I remember what the 5 Star Movement proposed: it proposed not to overcome the bicameralism in the parts that guarantee democracy and that, if you possibly want a smoother passage, if anything you must touch the Regulations, not the Constitution. The most resounding demonstration we had a moment ago, when we came to talk about the approximately 83 million amendments, on which the Rules of Procedure do not actually veto them. Yet it is said that the one who introduced them is an eversor. So I ask myself: when you do not go looking for the solution starting from the problem, at the exact point where the solution can be found, it means that what you say is not true, that you read a widespread and colossal lie about these works. It is a lie that, moreover, occasionally comes to light. We know that a political force, the People's Area (NCD-UDC), is bartering support for reforms to have in exchange an electoral law that allows the New Right Center, one tomorrow, to share the cake of the majority prize. That is the level of the debate: the barter for which those who are willing to vote on this reform can be offered presidencies of the Commission that you, President, must have had renewed already months ago and instead you are still waiting, making it easy for Matteo Renzi to increase the budget available for the sale. [[Applause from Senators Morra and Puglia]] God forbid this barter also includes the seats we should assign within the Constitutional Court! If we have arrived at this and if we allow the new Government and the new majorities to come to that, even the invitation of the various Pontius Pilate, who reassure us saying that the referendum and the Constitutional Court will intervene, will be illusory, indeed mystifying. In this way, responsibility for this reform is avoided and the responsibility lies with the future, in order to guarantee the pension to those who have not yet completed it and are under blackmail. This is what is happening and since we in the 5 Star Movement do not disappoint and postpone our responsibilities, we ask everyone, at this moment, to stop. This does not mean stopping reforms, but perhaps starting from a different assumption and an honest analysis of our role. We have already made this proposal: let us dissolve the Chambers, let us define an electoral law in a proportional sense, such as that which emerged from the decision of the Constitutional Court, and perhaps our successors may be worthy of a job, which here, instead, we are really offending. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u40	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I will try to be as quick as possible, because at the moment the debate in this House is about the proposal not to move on to the articles, on which a number of regulatory considerations weigh heavily, but also of a political nature, which are known to all. You see, Mr President and Madam Minister, the stifling of the debate in the Commission on the one hand and, on the other, the mockery of tabling 81 million amendments have tragically put an end to this bleak reading by the Senate on the substantive issue surrounding democracy and Article 2 of the draft law under consideration. You see, Mr President, from our point of view, Article 2 can be amended: whether it is so much or not, it is to be seen. Having been approved by the House of Deputies, at least with regard to that amendment, the Rules of Procedure of the Senate are clear: a word has changed and that means that at least that word can be amended. We are sure of that, Mr President. However, we are also faced with the presentation of some amending texts, which appear to be the source of a political synthesis found within the Democratic Party. Let us hope this is the case: I hope at least that the "congress" of the Democratic Party which took place in these constitutional reforms will be completed and that the word will be put to an end to a whole series of events, even of a personal nature, which have been seriously flooded in this House and have not been honored. When the search for consensus is the result of a political confrontation, as well as a personal confrontation - politics is certainly not an abstraction, but is realized in the action and in the things that are said and done by the people - that mandate bond we have with this House and with the institution in which we have entered to represent the citizens requires us to assume personal and political responsibilities. So I hope the season is over, not political dialogue, but the search for consensus (a little or so much) on the basis of personal conveniences. Mr President, I do not know how you will think differently of the amendments tabled by President Finocchiaro, whom I always thank for your excellent work, and I would like it to refer also to the guarantees that must be made certain, not only for the minority of your party, but also for the minority of this Parliament. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]] How, then, will you distinguish between those texts and the many other changes that have been tabled by several parties? Of course, the millions of amendments are the result of an algorithm. The Minister is right when she says so and I do not subscribe to the 81 million amendments. However, I would remind the Minister that at least half of the responsibility for which the Senate has ended in this impasse, that only you, Mr President, will be able to dissolve, is linked to the short-sightedness and deafness of this majority, and in particular of this Government, and in particular of those who have worked on the reform texts, not to want to listen and, if not to share, at least to respect the proposals that have come up from many quarters in this House. This renders ineffective, to the point of affecting even the regularity of this procedure, in their substance and content those reforms that many call for, but which in reality do not practice. In fact, it is not a true reform that presents itself as a series of amendments to the Constitution, President Zanda, which looks more like an omnibus decree than a revision of the fundamental law. The reform of the Constitution is based on principles, not changes that we have seen proposed, supported and voted by the majority in this House. I would therefore like to mention some of these major issues relating to principles; I will do so very quickly because the general discussion ended yesterday evening and we must now enter into the substance of an issue for it is not only technical, but that in the procedure it denounces all the seriousness of the political situation that has come to be determined, so that the opposition's proposals from several parties have been worth nothing on how to enter into the substance of this reform process and how to try to share them. We have tried with a few proposals. We have not tabled 81 million amendments, but 150 and I believe that the right that my political side had to see its texts discussed in the Commission, like those of others, has been seriously damaged, Mr President. On the substance of the issues, it was asked that the principle which inspires (even in its reform, while overcoming the perfect bicameralism) the representation of the territories in this House be closely linked, not to the abstract concept of territory, to the local institution that generates and appoints its representatives, but to that citizen who lives on that territory, to our people who are on the territories. I am sure that that principle of democracy, in the formula of mediation that was found in the amendment tabled by Senator Finocchiaro, will not be understood and will not be respected and will be yet another fiction. I ask colleagues to make a careful assessment, because, in addition to having done a bad reform of the Provinces, a reform of the Provinces that has maintained the full cost and weight of a bureaucratic structure and has only canceled the representation of the citizens, do not let the Senate do the same end of the Italian Provinces. In addition to being a serious injury to democracy, Mr President, and to widespread democracy, we have set in motion a mechanism for the desertification of democracy and the further removal of the citizen from what already exists from politics and institutions, and this is a responsibility I do not want to take. And I ask you, Mr President, to ensure that the Italian citizen can have a representative worthy of this name, in procedure and quality, so that there can be a step forward in the reformed Senate, a move towards an even more effective democracy, which does not fail to the principle that everyone sitting in this House is chosen by the citizens ( neither party bureaucracies nor administrative bureaucracies choose it). You see, Mr President, I believe that, when we consider today the widespread requests for non-transition to the articles, starting with the one presented by Senator Calderoli, we try to find the conditions for an agreement, as Mr Mauro has proposed. Without prejudice to the fact that we are not interested in the algorithm, which is a modality and a provocation, for which the Government bears responsibility exactly as those who proposed it, I believe that we will be able to find, at a meeting of the Commission, where all the Groups are represented, the formula to be able to move forward, to proceed on this discussion, not to stop on speculations or exploitations, but to look at the heart of the matter, that is, the way in which the Senate can emerge from this impasse and support the delicate work of the President of the Senate to find a solution. Let me conclude by saying, Mr President, that the many crocodile tears I see today do not comfort us at all. Mr D'Alì, you say today that you regret the position you expressed a year ago with many colleagues from Forza Italia. I am sure that Mr D'Ali remembers how only a year ago we asked and strongly proposed, we even begged our Group not to trample on the common history of the center-right, our glories, our dreams and especially our values, those that are not in this text today. The values of the center-right are not present in a reform process that we could and should have carried out together, as the constituent Fathers did many years ago. But I don't want to lose hope. Yesterday someone complained about the oxen coming out of the stable. I know that those oxen have already come out, Mr President, and that there is nothing left to do. With the proposal not to pass to the examination of the articles, we do not ask, to those who today are repentant and to whom - like Senator Quagliariello yesterday - invited us to reflect on the perversion put in place by the combined arrangement of reforms and Italicum, crocodile tears and even flowers at this funeral of democracy. We are only asking for strong votes against, as we expressed a year ago at that vote on 8 August, which marked the beginning of the end of democracy in Italy. [[Applause from the CoR Group and the Senators Bignami and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u41	I would remind you that the provisions of Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure are observed in the course of the debate on the proposal for a non-version to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u44	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have heard in this House the reply from Minister Boschi, who has proudly claimed that this Government has succeeded in completing where so many others have previously failed. He recalled, by making a beautiful historical excursus, the first bicamerals, led by Mr Bozzi, the second big bicameral, led by Iotti-De Mita, up to the one led by Mr D'Alema, but perhaps he forgot, in the excursus of attempts to update our Constitution the most important thing, that is how our Constitution came into being. The Constitution is perhaps not perfect, because it is the result of historical elaboration in a period, the two-year period 1947-1948, in which our society is still deeply divided. Our Constitution combines liberal thinking, Catholic thinking and communist thinking, with a series of counterweights that may have produced a text that is not entirely homogeneous. But that text, drawn up with those just counterweights, meant that all Italians had at the time been able to recognize themselves in that document. And at the time we avoided the great second rift, not to mention that we may have avoided the second civil war of our country. Today we are putting our hand - as has been almost unanimously stated - perhaps for the sake of partisan interest, and not of the country, to a single part of the Constitution. Putting hands on one side, leaving all the others unchanged, does not mean adapting our Constitution. It means breaking up our Constitution, making the labile balances that guarantee all our Italian people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] When an electoral law is changed according to governability, as important as that of representativeness, the balance, reflected in the Constitution, is undoubtedly altered, and the whole mechanism should be repaired. We absolutely do not touch the functions of the President of the Republic. We know exactly that the Chambers, Government and President of the Republic have very important tasks to ensure the right balance within the choices and for the democratic and constitutional guarantee. Today we have an electoral law strongly projected to guarantee governance. A single party will express a single-tone government. The electoral law desired by this Parliament (or, at least, by its majority) has gone in that direction: a Parliament will express a single-colored Government. And a strong parliamentary majority will, of course, be entitled to claim the appointment of the highest office of the State, that is, the President of the Republic. We have created a legal monster, where the same majority puts their hands on legislation; that same majority will make a single-colored government and express the highest office of state guarantee. We are throwing away the most important of the principles of democracies and the separation of powers. Considering that the Chambers, together with the President of the Republic, will appoint the offices of guarantee, the high courts, the Constitutional Court, everything will be in one hand, all in one strand. I repeat that the Constitution is not being adapted, but it is being broken down. What will happen to constitutional guarantees, Article 114, according to which the Republic is constituted - and this means that it recognizes regardless, is a prejuridical recognition - by Regions, Provinces, Municipalities and Metropolitan Cities? How does this match with the neocentralism that is being launched with the reform? The regions are completely diminished in their role. How should we interpret Article 5 of the Constitution according to which the Republic recognises and promotes local autonomy? Is everything erased on the altar of the need to have a secure government that governments and everything else skips? There's a big gap here. We can't accept that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] There is rage of panties, rage of amend ments. What's the use of changing to change? Where it is written that change is good. It is an axiom: what there is is not good, what will be changed must be fine. What is this: is the Government of Change? Are the changes that make the quality of a government or the quality of the product that will be able to elaborate will be the merit of evaluation and judgment? Government, you've taken the burden, which is not yours, to amend the Constitution. This is Parliament's job. [[Applause from the LN-Aut groups and Senators Bignami, Mussini and Simeoni.]] Government, the things that are fine, please, leave them as they are. We have a perfect, well-balanced Constitution and here it goes from start to finish. We can't accept that. Hence our position and our commitment to amend it with an important number of amendments. That is why everyone, with a little conscience and courage, should admit that it would be good not to go through the articles. We as a League support Mr Calderoli's request for the non-transition to the Arctic. [[Applause from the LN-Aut groups and Senators Bignami, Mussini and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u47	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I regret that Mr Boschi is not here at the moment, because what I am about to say is related to what he has just said. In addition to the excursus, about which my Divine colleague also spoke, more or less punctual, we have heard a sort of hymn to the joy of finally finishing a work begun, almost seventy years ago, as if the Constitution, at the time of its production by the Constituent, had already been born with the intrinsic need to be modified. Beyond that, and beyond the fact that this text profoundly alters the balance of powers, creating a system that we could call post-liberal, post-democratic, the point on which I want to call your attention is a unfortunately false approach to what has happened in Parliament in recent months, when it is said that this revision of the Constitution has been discussed for many months. The substance of the debate has been very small, given that, although there had been a willingness from all sides to analyse the possibilities of overcoming the perfect bicameralism, a specific theme was chosen, because one was the precise will, to put under Parliament; a path was chosen, and that had to be, and it was chosen outside the parliamentary classrooms. This is something I want to emphasise and I would like to draw your attention to: this reform has been discussed substantially outside Parliament. It was discussed in an agreement between the Democratic Party and Forza Italia at an early stage; it was discussed in the last days in the Democratic Party headquarters, within the same party, and the time spent in the Senate and the House passed above all waiting for it to be decided elsewhere. The thing that most offends me as a Member of Parliament and that should offend each of us senators is that this reform, which will upset the institutional architecture of our country, has not been negotiated, has not been discussed in the Commission. It is clear that the Commission, for this Government - on several occasions it has shown this - is a time of waste of time to be overcome soon and negotiation, analysis, the search for opportunities to meet there have not been. This government did not have a political approach, where politics means seeking a common mediated solution. This government has imposed its own decisions, taken elsewhere, and it is not known even from whom, and it has imposed them and unfortunately the colleagues of the Democratic Party in the vast majority, and the colleagues of the majority who accompany the Democratic Party, have accepted them with arguments - I must say - little substantial, where they have deviated, and differ, from all that most constitutionalists have told us that we have asked in the context of the cognitive investigation, presenting us with a whole series of critical issues, which have been ignored. The basic idea that an impartial observer could be made is that the cognitive investigation was used to give time to the Government to find a possible square within the Democratic Party. What I want to denounce at this time and why I am in advance of my vote in favour of not going to the articles is that what we are witnessing today, starting with the Minister's speech, is all a fiction. We are basically going to vote on a measure, knowing what we have to vote on, already knowing how it will end and unfortunately also fear that the time for discussing the amendments will be cut very heavily. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u50	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, our Group, as a force of opposition, realizes that it is perhaps the only voice opposed to those we have heard of the other opposition forces. We are aware that ours is a gravitational political force, in the sense that it was born to allow reforms to be made. We have therefore not tabled any amendments and we believe that we need to examine the articles, in line with what we have done. We have tabled zero amendments, unlike others who rely on algorithms. And if those amendments were to be printed, they would have to tell the Italians what the cost of their paper production would be, which would amount to several million euros that would fall on their shoulders. Now, I am not surprised by the shortsighted, if not blind, position of many opposition colleagues, because they may not remember that they had simplification ministers and reform ministers. And, if the Constitution that we have was so perfect - and I personally believe that our constituent Fathers gave us a great Constitution - why in 2005 did you want to approve by majority a constitutional reform, then not confirmed by the sovereign people? It's the people who failed you. So if you think that what we're approving today is a vulnus to democracy, if you think you're a majority in the country against this constitutional reform, what are you afraid of? There will be a confirmation referendum and, if you are a majority in the country, you will prove it! But you know perfectly well that you are not and that the sovereign people want reform and simplification and that is why you are afraid and try here to accuse others of buying and selling. But excuse me: it will be more the result of buying out the position of those who, consistently, have already voted for this reform and continue to vote for it or those who voted for it and it is not well known why they no longer vote for it, even if nothing has changed? I believe that the difference is substantial, because this constitutional reform was voted at first reading by more than two thirds of Members of the House and Senate, and was therefore widely shared. On matters that I am not here to say, we now want to belittle what was the sharing of a truly valid text. Of course, to prepare amendments with an algorithm we make amendments that are everything and the opposite of everything. One is the opposite of the other and this is not serious: it is like a madman who, with a machine gun, shoots not only the enemy but also the friendly people. To my friend Calderoli, who is a new bridegroom, I hope, indeed, not to apply algorithms in his marital duties! Mr President, I would like to conclude by pointing out that as a Group we have not consistently tabled any amendments and, therefore, we cannot fail to examine the articles. We want to go through the articles and share with the majority what is a reform that we consider to have been widely shared, a draft reform law that, at second reading, we have to try, if possible, to improve with some amendments but coming straight to the final vote, to ensure that next year the sovereign people - what they will say if it is okay - can be expressed, because that is democracy. Democracy is when the people vote and in this reform it is not written who will win the elections, because to win them there will have to be programs and we will have to carry on content and not just talk. Whoever has the highest votes will rule, this is democracy and I do not think there is the danger of dictatorships. If there ever was with other forms, but with this certainly not. Therefore, Mr President, we are going to proceed directly to the examination of the articles. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u51	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal not to proceed to the debate on the Rules of Procedure. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u54	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a comment. Since we have realised that everything has already been decided at the Conference of Leaders before, I would not like you to propose a certain date of the vote in the forthcoming Leadership because even one amendment can alter the significance of the reforms. And I believe that all senators have the duty and the right to intervene on every amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u55	Senator Castaldi, I remind you that we are in the process of voting. I think that you, as a Holding Company, unless you delegate someone else, will be able to participate in the Conference and express your views there. This isn't the right place. We are in the vote and, therefore, I give you the floor if you want to ask for an electronic vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u56	I shall finish quickly, Mr President, but I must make a few comments. There is no record of this and, therefore, it is appropriate for the citizens who follow us to know that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u57	There's the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u58	CASTALDI (M5S). I also wanted to ask you whether you were interested in the question raised yesterday in this House by Senator Gasparri's speech. I ask you to pay attention to the situation reported by Senator Gasparri on Senator Amoruso.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u59	Senator Castaldi, we're not talking about this. Some initiatives have already been taken by the person concerned. In this respect, the Presidency will provide. This is not the time. We are in the process of voting. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). PUGLIA (M5S). President, but he's a leader... president. The Group leaders can also take note of the fact that we are in the process of voting. PUGLIA (M5S). He's a group leader who has asked for the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. And I gave it to him, but he cannot continue to deal with matters that are outside the current vote. I'm sorry, but with all due respect to the Parent Company, you can't go on. CASTALDI (M5S). President, let me finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Be telegraphic. A request for electronic voting has already been made, which has been supported. AIROLA (M5S). We've gotten a little tired of that attitude. CASTALDI (M5S). We are pleased that this situation has already been taken care of. Yesterday, however, something else happened... PRESIDENT. Senator Castaldi, we're voting. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] What happened yesterday will be dealt with at the appropriate time. CASTALDI (M5S). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I do not think it is conducive to the vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). He doesn't give him the video! It's censorship! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, you requested an electronic vote. Have a seat. Why doesn't he want to take part in the vote? CASTALDI (M5S). Mr. President, I'm only stealing 10 seconds from you... Get the video off! Get the video off! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Should I take the video off? But am I a director? [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]] I'm not gonna take it off. SANTANGELO (M5S). I'll take it off! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Every time you let me intervene, the video opens automatically, and I've explained it several times. After I turn it off, but if you continue to intervene, I have to answer. If you keep the work of this House going, you may also have the images. [[Reiterate protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u60	Mr President, thank you for telling me that you are interested in the matter raised. I would like to ask you a few seconds to add that yesterday Senator Ciampolillo, who does not have the gift of ubiquity, should have been in the Chamber at the same time to give his speech and in the bicameral Commission. I therefore ask you for an opinion on the fact that every senator would have a duty to participate in the work, since he does not have the gift of ubiquity, and not even Senator Ciampolillo who, despite living near St. John Rotondo, is certainly not Padre Pio. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Council Senator]] Finally, taking advantage of the fact that the citizens are following the debate, I ask that the Capigroup do not use rights... PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have already told you that you will be able to express your opinion in the Group Leader. The group leader is not the Chamber. President. - We are talking about rights here.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u61	You can talk about rights, but the Conference of Leaders is being discussed in that forum and not here. Good. But the Democratic Party - I want to tell you before entering the Conference - does not use media force to cheat Italians, and above all, those people who are waiting to see recognized rights and civil unions, to play on this issue in the Conference of Leaders. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] CARDINALI (PD). That's enough! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). I immediately convene the Conference of Group Presidents and suspend the sitting until the outcome of the Conference. (The sitting was suspended at 11.17 p.m. and resumed at 2.25 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u62	The Conference of Leaders approved by a majority the timetable for the follow-up to the discussion of the draft law revising Part II of the Constitution. At the single sitting on Tuesday 29 September, beginning at 11 a.m., all the amendments, for a total of 10 hours to be distributed among the groups, will be presented. The debate and the vote on the amendments will take place from Wednesday 30 September until Tuesday 13 October, the date of the final vote, including Fridays, and on Mondays beginning at 3 p.m. and Saturday ending at 1 p.m. The sittings will be unique, suspended from 1.30 p.m. to 3 p.m., except for the sitting on Thursday 1 October, when, in conjunction with the meeting of Parliament in common, the suspension will be from 2 p.m. to 7 p.m. 80 hours, including voting time, will therefore be allocated. Within the calendar, on a date to be defined, as per practice, in conjunction with the Chamber of Deputies, the Update Note to the 2015 Economy and Finance Document will be discussed for a total of 5 hours.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u65	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I was the only one who was not unanimous in this timetable, for a very simple reason. It was a very delicate meeting, where his wisdom came out, and this I recognized, among other things, trying to meet his proposal, in some very interesting points. You, at some point, justifying your proposal, asked for the amendments to be presented on Tuesday and, therefore, for the content of what were worthwhile ones. Then there was an opening up to some minority forces, certainly not to our own, which tabled very few amendments and all of them on the subject. I would remind you that, however, we represent 25% of Italians and no amendments to the constitutional amendment proposed by the 5 Star Movement have been accepted. Therefore, you have been given an opening and even promises of substantial withdrawal of amendments. I read in her the desire to understand. And what was my proposal? It was to explain the amendments on Tuesday, and then to start voting. After a few days, you will be assured that Senators Calderoli and De Petris have kept their pledges of withdrawal. Subsequently, after a few days of voting - by voting on some amendments, then the reality of the matter - the Conference of the Leaders could be convened to decide on a subsequent date for the conclusion of the proceedings. Instead, you do not want to be the executioner of the Constitution but there were two here, a man and a woman, Senator Zanda and Minister Boschi, who asked you to vote on 8 October. And if it's not a trap on the Constitution, what is this? I welcome the efforts of the Senate Presidency, but it has only achieved one thing: the guillotine to constitutional reform moves from 8 to 13 October, without even having anything in return. This Constitution doesn't matter. It was difficult, therefore, for me to give unanimity. I have a conviction, Mr President. When two years ago this people demonstrated to the political class that they could organize themselves and have an electoral force, they became frightened and thought that, if this was possible, it was necessary to ensure that the Constitution no longer allowed it. This has happened and this is what is happening with the reform of the Constitution and the electoral law, which will still have the nominations. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I remember being passionate about this Movement in 2007 when I asked, putting my signature, three things. In one day we collected 350,000 signatures. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But those three things are still unattended today. Whoever sits in here has never done the interests of the people. That's why we, normal people, were forced to come here and have meetings with these kinds of characters. In there the situation is really difficult for normal people, because of the reasons, tensions and cheating present at that table.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u66	Senator Castaldi, please stick to the subject, i.e. to the request for a change in the calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u67	CASTALDI (M5S). That is the truth, Mr President, because you know how much I have taken into account your wisdom and your openness today. That said, Senator De Petris asked to schedule, on Monday, the only incardination of the bill on civil unions. And there came out that Democratic Party that cares about people's rights. Absolutely not: not even the incardination we could do. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then you, on television and in the newspapers, can go and say what you want, but you don't give a damn about civil rights and unions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The 5 Star Movement, however, did not even put it in difficulty with its own measure. Only in the end, I was forced to do it: but no, not even the income of citizenship. So, people's rights don't give a damn. The poverty and the difficulty of nine million Italians "nobody gives a damn about"! PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Castaldi, please use the Italian language, although I can understand that vernacular has more effect. SANTANGELO (M5S). That's it! CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, there is only one interest that comes out of these meetings: to ensure that the people never get the government of this nation. Our proposal for a change is very simple, and I have already explained it between the lines: to start voting on the amendments, to make the situation clearer, and then to bring the Conference of Leaders together and to decide. Our proposal is not to foresee a date, and therefore the guillotine, at the death of the Italian Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u70	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I certainly do not have to report here on the meeting of the Conference of Leaders. I simply want to say that what I said earlier this morning in my request not to go through the articles, explaining our motives and denouncing the use of some interviews that even wanted to give us the responsibility not to come to the debate on civil unions in the House. Everything I have obviously denounced, Mr President, as you know, has proved absolutely true. You have made a great effort, and we acknowledge that. WOMAN (M5S). What an effort! DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). With regard to you, to the guarantees you have given us, and above all not to give no more alibi to anyone, we have made an effort to withdraw the so-called obstructionist amendments and to maintain only what we had already tabled in the Commission on the substance. In the face of all this, as you know, you have still insisted on trying to move forward at all costs with the date that was initially proposed. Even the proposal for integration that we have made, simple, that is to start on Monday with the incardination of the bill on civil unions - so we see who really wants it and who does not - and then continue on Tuesday with the illustration of the amendments to the constitutional reform - as you know - has not been accepted, despite all your efforts. What should we say, then, dear President? Who has instrumentally used the issue of civil rights, that is, a matter that is heartfelt to hundreds of thousands of people, trying to make a really dirty exploitation? The king is naked, as expected [[Applause from Senator Airola]] It has been clear to everyone who wants to have a debate on the subject, who wants to fight because at last in this House we are discussing the issues that are at the heart of the citizens and who, on the other hand, has the only and only purpose of putting in place a further chance of guillotine in order to make us not discuss anything. The lies that have been said even today, as you can see, fall all in the face and in the head of those who have spoken them. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u73	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I take the floor to say that we will of course vote on the timetable you have proposed. [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] You know, Mr President - you chaired the Group Leader - that a different request had been made. We thought that we needed a period between the end of the debate on reform and the start of the budgetary session. In the end, there was a unanimous decision when you announced it - and you pointed it out several times - but then there was a change. Well, this change that Senator Castaldi has now mentioned is a piece of obstructionism to reform. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] TAVERNA (M5S). Shut up! ZANDA (PD). Let this be clear: it is a piece of obstructionism to reform, and nothing else. The issue of civil unions has always been put at the Conference of Leaders by the Democratic Party and, as soon as we finish our work on the reform, I would ask you to immediately reconvene the Group Leader because we will put the issue back. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Montevecchi (M5S). Dictator! What are you calling for? ZANDA (PD). We do not agree, however, on the instrumental use of such a delicate subject to increase a level of obstructionism indeed already very substantial. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] And even these screams simply want to prevent the Senate from discussing issues that are raised differently from their opinion, because any opinion other than theirs cannot have room in this House. These screams confirm that obstructionism is involved. [[Applause from the PD Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame on you! TAVERNA (M5S). Shut up! BULGARRELLI (M5S). What would Senator Zanda's calendar proposal be?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u76	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, let's put the dots on the i. Meanwhile, you see the obstruction in your brain, because we have tabled 200 amendments and we have asked dozens of times to put the bill on civil unions on the calendar, although it is not our text, because it is an issue that is very dear to us. You never voted for him. You, Zanda, have always had that phrase put on... TONINI (PD). Calm down, calm down. CARDINALI (PD). Talk to the Assembly. AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you, this is very serious. Now come accuse me. The other night we made a statement with the Mixed Group because we did not participate in the joke you are taking with the People's Alliance in the Commission, and the clowns of the People's Alliance did not come to vote. [[Vivacious protests from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u77	Senator Airola! AIROLA (M5S). This is your show. MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). You're a moron! AIROLA (M5S). I am tired, we are tired of being accused of putting our arms in the way of a constitutional reform without ending our work in the Commission, to those who do not give the time, contingency, or to carry out the debate, or to discuss the amendments. The 80 million amendments tabled by the League are a problem for one, two, three, four weeks, and therefore for a quota. That is unacceptable. We're tired of being treated like this. Yesterday, for the umpteenth time, you closed the session in haste and fury to go see the Juventus and this is indecent, it is indecent! You're shameful!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u78	[[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u79	He made a mistake. There are also those who went to see the Roma game.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u80	AIROLA (M5S). We no longer accept this kind of insult to oppositions, which are acting collaboratively. We are trying to cooperate, but Mr Zanda is obviously the real President of the Senate, since I myself have seen him decide and dictate the rules, with all the respect I owe to President Grasso, who has also behaved very well with me and our Group. You're shameful! You must go hoe the earth! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] MATTESINI (PD). It is honorable to hoe the earth! CARDINALI (PD). Crazy! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, don't offend the senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u83	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I have asked for the floor to ask once again for the inclusion of the motion for a resolution on the elimination of nuclear bombs from the F35. However, at the request of the other signatories to the motion, I no longer intend to make this request, because it is better to postpone it until next time. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u86	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I am speaking as a member of the Mixed Group in the Commission on justice, because it is necessary at this point that a real voice of truth is also brought. The content of Mr Boschi's interview, which even talks about the adoption of the draft law on civil unions, is unacceptable and is prevented by the number of amendments tabled. I would like to remind the whole House and those who can listen to us, if need be, given that it is a subject taken up several times and also recently by the President of the Palma Justice Commission, that the draft law on civil unions has been under discussion for a long time, which has been asked several times for it to be included on the calendar, but the Democratic Party hides behind the words "where the work in the Commission has been completed" In fact, this bill has also emerged, for a short period of time, from the calendar. Now, neither the Mixed Group nor the 5 Star Movement Group can be accused of putting any obstacle to this bill, because I would like to remind my PD colleagues that it is being carried out in the Commission with the votes of the Democratic Party, the Mixed Group and the 5 Star Movement. That is what happens in the Commission. That's the truth. Tired of the game that has been played on the skin of those who have been legitimately for years, and not only since this parliamentary term, calls for clarity and certainty, we have asked for a sure timetable in this House. And it doesn't seem to me that this is a request that even minimally hinders the strategies and the will of this Government and the majority parties. We have done so in order to have clarity and transparency, because what happens here corresponds exactly to what is being preached outside. This request has not been accepted once again. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u87	I address on behalf of the Assembly a greeting to the delegation of MPs from the Republic of Montenegro, accompanied by the Ambassador, who follow our work by the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u90	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, after the intervention of Senator Mussini, I must say that President Palma and all of us, members of the Justice Commission, are working hard on the measure on civil unions. However, I would like to point out that long periods of time and difficulties are more than anything else related to the need to ensure that the provision on civil unions is correct, especially from a purely scientific and technical point of view. There is no doubt that the provision on civil unions presents enormous difficulties to be overcome, as the new law will have to be properly harmonised with the norms of the Constitution and those of our civil code. We have been discussing some of the amendments for hours, but I do not think that there has been any attitude of an exquisitely obstructive nature in the Commission. There are two different views that contrast each other, but they are both respectable because they go in the direction of making the measure technically harmonised in our legal system. Those who believe that such a measure can be dismissed so quickly are far from the legal culture of a democratic country. [[Applause from Senator D'Anna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are having a debate on the timetable and, therefore, I would ask you to bring back the speeches on this issue and, if necessary, propose amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u94	Orellana (Mist). Mr President, I also come back to the issue of civil unions, making a proposal at the end of my brief speech. There are many of us in this House - I absolutely believe the majority - who want civil unions. It should be recognized that a party has presented a bill, at the first signature of Senator Cirinna, and that other groups - I am referring to the Mixed Group and the 5 Star Movement - have not stood any obstacle to the examination of the text, which also helped to write. Amendments have been tabled and work is under way in the Commission. It must be said, however, that there are major problems of obstruction, since 1,500 amendments have been tabled in the Commission: since each amendment can be voted on by the senator for 10 minutes, about 30-40 minutes are being taken to vote on each individual amendment proposal. This obstruction can be interpreted in various ways: there are those who want an improved text (probably this will also be true), but my feeling is that you don't really want the provision. In Italy there is still the perfect bicameralism which, as we all know, provides that every bill submitted to a House is examined by a Commission and then by the House in each of the two branches of Parliament until the measure is approved in the same wording (I am talking about the shuttle). We are now in the middle of the legislature (if it does not end early) and we are at risk of not being able to bring home the provision on civil unions. This is the reality of the facts. Judgments of the Constitutional Court and also at Community level are pushing us to remedy this situation, just as it has been asking us for a good number of years, not the majority, but a significant and important minority of Italians. So, I'm not gonna pass on that. If I have done well, the timetable approved today organizes the work for fourteen consecutive solar days, i.e. from 29 September to 13 October. I call for an adequate space - a half day, four hours - in this period of time to frame the measure and perhaps begin the general discussion, so as to be sure that once constitutional reforms are over, we will continue to move swiftly towards this other objective. I believe that we owe this to our citizens and we cannot go any further. That is my request. As has already been said, as a form of pressure we have threatened before and now we are not taking part in the votes in the Commission, so as to speed up the process of the measure. President Palma has clearly explained to us, according to the Rules of Procedure, what are the three criteria that allow to speed up the examination process, perhaps by convening night sessions: if the provision comes from the other Chamber, if it has been scheduled in the Assembly, or if it is requested by the Government. For now, none of these three conditions have been fulfilled. President Palma - who is not here now, although I think he could confirm this - therefore does not have the regulatory instruments to speed up, including night sessions to combat this obstruction. We could decide now and move on. If not, we ask that the Government, without always returning to the Commission when it is to vote, come to the Commission and make a specific request in order to proceed with the examination of the measure as soon as possible. Of the two, then, the one: either the incardination of the provision on civil unions is included today in the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly, or the Government comes to say clearly at the next session of the Commission that it wants to proceed with the discussion of that bill, without this being read only in the media. We must hear it in the Commission, not outside. Otherwise - and as far as I am concerned I would prefer this hypothesis, because here there is the plenary of this House - I would ask that the House decide to include the examination of the measure in the timetable of proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u97	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to say that the desire to speed up the conclusion of the reforms, in my opinion, is not to bring home the reform, but only to incardinate the Boccadutri law, because you are with empty pockets, you need, you need public funding to the parties. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I therefore propose that we continue the debate on the reform without quotas - if we wish, we could also finish before the examination of the DEF - and that we include in the timetable the examination of the measure on civil unions, even if not yet concluded in the Commission, as well as the examination of the provisions concerning the participation of Italy in international missions and the reorganization of the financial advisory activity, and then move on to the DEF and, once the law of stability has been passed, to the Boccadutri law. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u98	If there are no other proposals to change the timetable for the work of this House, we shall proceed to the votes on the requests that have been made. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to remove the deadline for the final vote. Colleagues, I call on all of you to reach your seat for the vote. The raised hand in motion is not easily identifiable. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I shall put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work aimed at incardinating the provision on civil unions. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] WOMAN (M5S). Bravo, Bravo! SANTANGELO (M5S). Here's your consistency, here's your consistency! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Quiet! Please, Senator Santangelo, we're voting. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings to include the examination of the measures concerning Italy's participation in international missions and the reorganization of the financial advisory activity, as well as other draft laws. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u101	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask my colleagues, and in particular Mr Calderoli, a moment of attention. The absolutely extraordinary and unprecedented amount of amendments tabled to the draft Constitutional Act (it speaks of 85 million amendments tabled by the League and another 60,000 by the Mixed-SEL Group), beyond the political merit and the risk to the dignity of the institutions, which you have also referred to, I believe can pose a regulatory problem. It is well known that our Rules of Procedure were written before algorithms began to write or rewrite the Constitution instead of senators. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Rule 100 (3) of the Rules of Procedure provides that, as a rule, amendments should be tabled in writing by the proposer, and that the practice established by the Offices, in addition to the combined arrangement with paragraph 4, has always confirmed the need for the signing by the proposers. I should therefore like to ask you whether in this case the signature of the Senators of the League has been verified (which I understand was also the case for the 18,000 amendments tabled to the electoral law), or whether a derogation has been made for this situation. I am also saying this for a very basic reason, which is also clear in the eyes of the citizens who look with some interest at this reform: no one wants to question the right-duty of each Member to table amendments to the draft law, even if - we must say this - the wisdom of the ancients and some common sense would make us and the majority of Italians say: est modus in rebus. [[Senator Crosio's comments.]] However, the extent of the amendments in this case - you will allow me to say this - is such that it is quite difficult for the proposers to be fully aware of the content of what they have presented. [[Senator Council's comments.]] For this reason, we are asking whether, in the light of the number of amendments under discussion, it has already been possible to verify the actual affixing and truthfulness of the autograph signatures, in order to confirm to all of us and the Italians that Senator Calderoli has at least read them and that he is aware of what the algorithm has made him write. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If not, we call for these amendments to be declared merely the result of a mathematical game, for which our colleague is not even aware and fully responsible. Therefore, in the absence of a signature that demonstrates the minimum requirement required by the Rules of Procedure, and of the awareness of the proposers, we call for these amendments to be declared inadmissible. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u104	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to remind Senator Russo that, among other things, he should have followed the work of this House, that this specific request, precisely in view of the scale of the reform, has been submitted to President Finocchiaro in the Commission in order to be allowed to submit amendments in computer-based form, as will be apparent from the Commission's acts. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u105	Anyway, we'll assess.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u108	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, it seems to me that you ended the sitting and then allowed Senator Russo to speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It was an end-of-session intervention like yours. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] CASTALDI (M5S). He probably wasn't aware of what we've just heard, but it would be right for these opportunities to be given to everyone, not just to senators who are ninety degrees with the government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u111	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank you and those who want to listen and be silent, even if they are disinterested. We have a major problem: Germany has banned gambling advertising, as well as Morocco. In Italy we have commercials... [[Senator Volpi's comments.]] President, at least you...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u112	Senator Endrizzi, continue, I gave you the floor; then, Senator Volpi will tell us what you want to talk about.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u113	[[Senator Volpi's lively comments.]] If we don't know and you haven't told us, I'm gonna give you the floor now, Senator Volpi. Do not be angry, it is not worth it: Senator Russo is still here, he will not leave and will have the courtesy to listen to his speech. Please, Senator Endrizzi. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I have to ask you: Senator Russo has spoken on the order of business, as well as the colleague of the League would like to do, while I find myself compressed among these begas. I ask you to give me time to argue, regardless of what's been going on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, you practice the faculty I gave you. ENDRIZZI (M5S). As I said, in Germany they abolished gambling advertising and the year they did also in Morocco. Italy, as always, is instead taken in the game of lobbying and has not yet provided. Why is it important to abolish gambling advertising? Because it drugs politics, financing political parties and exponents and sponsoring events such as the Feast of Unity or the meeting of Communion and Liberation in Rimini; because it drugs the press: they are equal to about 200 million per year the investments that obviously condition the freedom of expression when you can simply threaten to withdraw them to the newspapers that should not write in a pleasing way; drugs, however, above all, the imagination of young people [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because he is educating them to invest in fate rather than in themselves and to bet on a machine, rather than on study, work and business. I do not know if anyone has ever tried to estimate the economic damage, which can also be measured in terms of GDP, for having young people willing to wait, instead of taking an initiative, to pay as Chinese, rather than finding them prepared and enterprising to compete with Germany. We have all voted in this House on an agenda which commits the Government to abolish advertising. More political forces and more representatives, in a simultaneous flowering of intent, have put forward legislative proposals in this respect, but today we have an urgent deadline, namely the renewal of agreements with dealers. On this we ask the Government to be consistent with the commitment made in Parliament by including in the text of the conventions an explicit prohibition that could sound like this: I hereby authorize you to manage the lottery, scratch cards and any other similar activity, provided that you undertake not to advertise. The opposite is the case today: paradoxically, in the conventions, the Government obliges dealers to invest a share of revenues in advertising, which is essentially a cause of social and economic damage. We did this decades and decades ago on cigarettes; we have to do it now on gambling. I therefore advise colleagues that they have filed motion 1-00470 which commits the Government to explicitly exclude advertising from the renewal of conventions. I would ask the Members who then voted on the agenda to sign it and to take action for its speedy timetable. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Albano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u115	He has the right to do so: sorry, but I didn't feel it was on the same subject, I didn't know it and I couldn't predict it. Senator Russo is still here, by the way.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u116	VOLPI (LN-Aut). My parliamentary group is not only composed of Senator Calderoli, Mr President; however, I know the courtesy of Senator Russo and I know that it is superior to that of many others. Allow me to say something, first of all, because I couldn't answer Senator Russo, so I'm talking to you. I do not go into the merits of the dignity of what is done in this House, because compared to personal stories someone would turn to the grave seeing what Senator Russo does, with respect to his political history, towards the Constitution. As far as my awareness is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we could also review what we voted on a few minutes ago. If you, Mr President, allow me to explain all the amendments I have signed, I will show Senator Russo my awareness of having submitted them. Do not play double games, Senator Russo, because doing these things diminishes not you, but the Assembly and the dignity of the Senate, as you told us.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u119	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have asked for the floor for the usual end-of-session speech, on another subject than those we have just heard. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, together with twenty senators, to reply to my question 4-03773 on 9 April, concerning the promotion of export and import interests with Taiwan, which is an important reality (it is the eighteenth economy of the world). I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will respond as soon as possible, not least because the question is not insidious, but it is entirely raised in a positive sense.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u120	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-511.ana.u121	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 29 September, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.07 a.m.
