ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 5 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 3 August. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the time limit of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 17:01).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u4	Colleagues, I inform you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has communicated that, in accordance with Article 19 of Legislative Decree No 533, as well as the opinion of the Council for the Rules expressed at its meeting of 7 June 2006, the allocation of the seat rendered vacant in the Puglia Region following the disappearance of Senator Donato Bruno, has found in today's sitting that the candidate who immediately follows the last of the elected in the progressive order of the list to which the aforementioned Senator belonged is Michele Boccardi. I acknowledge the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity of this communication and I proclaim Senator Michele Boccardi. [[Applause]] I warn you that from now on it will start with regard to the new proclaimed the 20-day deadline for the submission of any complaints. Congratulations to Senator Boccardi, to whom my good work goes, along with that of the whole House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u7	[[Brusio.]] Colleagues, please, a moment of silence. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, before we begin work, if I may, I would like to make a point of order under Rule 92. In my group's view it is absolutely necessary and urgent for the Senate Presidency to decide whether or not amendments to the Senate Act 1429, on constitutional reform, in particular amendments to Article 2, in part amended by the House, are admissible. This presidential decision - just one minute, President, and I close - cannot ignore the following important issues. First of all, there is the regulatory issue: Rule 104 of the Senate Rules of Procedure provides for the third reading of amendments if they are directly related to the amendments introduced by the House of Deputies. The Chamber, as it is known, in Article 2, modifying the proposition "ini" with "dai", has in fact changed the scope of temporal legitimacy of the office of senators: the change of preposition consists, in fact, in a change of substance. In the text that came out of the Chamber, replacing the two terms, the duration of the mayors elected by the Regional Council in the Senate is anchored, no longer to the duration of the Regional Council itself, but to the mandate of mayor: a change that is far from marginal. Then there is the constitutional question. Very authoritative doctrine, both in unsuspecting times (Manzella) and in recent times (Peace, Cheli, Pellegrino), supporting the peculiarity of the constitutional revision procedure, even considers the prohibition for parliamentarians to be unconstitutional to be able to intervene in an amending sense at second reading, as Article 138 of the Constitution must be considered above the constitutional revision procedure for its atypicality. That is, in other words, the constitutional revision procedure, due to its atypical nature, cannot be flattened to the ordinary one, as prescribed in a merely literal sense by the Regulations. In this regard, it is noted that in the 11th legislature, on the basis of an opinion of the Council for the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, approved on May 5, 1993, the President Napolitano admitted - as the opinion states - the entirely deleted amendments of the paragraph radically modified by the Senate, given the particular discipline of the constitutional revision procedure, the complexity of the process so far carried out (...) and the opportunity for a rapid definition of this process. Among other things, the amendment concerned Article 68. More recently in the Senate - and precisely in session No. 763 of 15 March 2005 - amendments were accepted and voted on to delete and delete the entire article 25 of the constitutional bill, in the context of which the Chamber had modified the only words in which it was replaced by the word "that". It was therefore the mere modification of a preposition, which led to the acceptance of amendments which were entirely amending. Then there are other cases that I do not hesitate to mention. This is an issue which the Presidency has already addressed in other forums, for example, you yourself, Mr President, at the fan ceremony. You have expressed your support for a possible political rethinking of all parts of the constitutional bill, and you have also opened up the possibility of full amendment. In short, Mr President, the decision of the Presidency, even if necessary through the convening of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure (which we are asking here to consider), is urgent. It will also have to guide the work in the Commission in the referee, in order not to arrive at the paradox that a draft rewriting of the Constitution undergoes an examination with different rules between the House and the Commission and even undergo an examination with different rules between the Groups, imagining that someone can move towards amending proposals of profound modification, while some other Group tends to maintain the respect of the Regulations, and then find itself having a different interpretation after the presentation of the amendments themselves. That is why we call on the Presidency to give its opinion on this matter as soon as possible, including with the convening of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u8	The Presidency takes note of its arguments, Senator Crimi, although it is obliged to point out inaccuracies, with regard to its personal position, with regard to what refers to the fan ceremony. In fact, the conclusions you have given to my speech differ from those which can still be obtained today from a reading of what you have just said there. Having said that, we take note of your arguments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u11	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, on a point of order, which concerns Rule 21 (7) of the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind the Presidency and colleagues, especially those of the majority, and particularly the Democratic Party, that Article 21, paragraph 7, states that the Permanent Commissions shall be renewed after the first two years of the legislature. We now know very well that this was already the case in the Chamber of Deputies on 21 July. The Senate therefore, for several months now, has had a composition which I would like to call illegitimate, as well as, under the terms of our Rules of Procedure, the respective offices in the Presidency would also be illegitimate. I realize that from a political point of view it is legitimate to have problems in bringing the House or the Commission back to normal operation, and therefore to proceed with the renewal of the Bureaus, but, as legitimate as it may be, it is not negligible that in this way we are violating a very precise article and the legitimacy of the functioning of the Commissions themselves. Therefore, even if it is possible for the government to procrastinate again, for political needs, the nominations of Presidency, Vice-President and Secretariat of the Permanent Commissions, it would be advisable instead for this Assembly to come to urge, through its function, President, an absolute, otherwise irremediable and urgent convening of the Commissions themselves for the renewal of their offices. I would therefore urge both the Presidency itself and the parliamentary groups here in the Senate to proceed without delay, not waiting for a government that we are now used to dropping or being renamed without a parliamentary passage. A prerogative proper to the Senate, such as the renewal of the Commissions, must be part of the dialectic of this Assembly and must not wait for the times that are instead those of the Renzi government's politics, which has other issues to settle and which is perhaps procrastinating the renewal of the Senate's offices of presidency for its convenience. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u12	The Presidency takes note of this point of order and will speak for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u15	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking to inform you and the House that, pursuant to Rule 79 (1) of our Rules of Procedure, the 5 Star Movement Group adopts draft laws no. 1655 and 1928, both signed by the prescribed number of senators. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency takes note of all the resulting regulatory effects.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u16	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1556. The report has already been printed and distributed. The rapporteur, Senator Bernini, asked to supplement the written report. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u17	Mr President, what is being discussed here today by our Commission is a measure of understandable brevity. These are two articles which propose to amend the provisions of principle relating to the system of election of the President of the Regional Council and the regional councillors, contained in Article 4 of Law No 165 of 2004, which contains provisions for the implementation of the first paragraph of Article 122 of the Constitution. The draft law aims to implement the constitutional principle first enshrined in Article 51 of the Constitution and subsequently reaffirmed - following the amendment of Title V - by Article 117, seventh paragraph, that of equal ordination, equal balance, equal opportunities and equal representation between men and women in the elected bodies. It is no coincidence that I use this word because in the course of the debate in the Commission, among the amendments that have been made to the original text of the draft law, the words "genere" and "sex" have also been the subject of an in-depth and interesting discussion among the members of the Commission, of which I will be able to respond shortly. However, I must point out - and this is the most significant feature of this draft law - that the text, in its original wording, provided for the introduction of the guarantee of equality between women and men, in line with what is already provided for in similar legal provisions, to an extent of around 50%. During the discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a different, more unifying approach to equal opportunities in bodies and elected institutions between men and women emerged. An amendment was adopted which, instead of the general guarantee of equal access, provides that candidates of the same sex do not exceed 60% of the quota, moreover in analogy with the provisions of Law No 52 of 2015, recently adopted, which precisely this principle places as a presupposition of the representation of men and women in the elected bodies. In particular, the text defined in the Commission, which corresponds to the basic text of the draft law, provides for three different hypotheses that characterize the three different ways of electing elected bodies in regional representations, i.e. the expression of preference, the expression of the blocked list and the expression of the single college. In all these cases, with the different context modulations, the application of the principle of not exceeding 60% for each sex is valid. In view of the plurality of regional electoral systems, the most stringent fundamental principles dictated by the text proposed for the purposes of the discipline of the subject by the Regions serve to guarantee the effectiveness of a balanced competition between women and men, considered itself (we have said so), with the attachment of Articles 51 and 117, seventh paragraph, of the Constitution, a principle absolutely and repeatedly defined worthy of protection in the constitutional order. The presence of women in the institutions - it is a pleonastic one to repeat it, but it is worth remembering it, especially in the constancy of such a measure - is an expression of a fully completed democracy and is certainly a step towards politics at a time of crisis of politics itself and institutions in the eyes of the citizens. A democracy based on a balanced representation of the sexes is in fact the most fruitful outcome of a long process of progressive valorization of the role of women in social and political life, up to a few years ago characterized by an absolutely prevalent male presence, according to some even monopolistic exceptions. As we have said, the draft law is an expression of principles which have already been incorporated into other electoral laws referring to different elective expressions, starting from the European Parliament, where even this Assembly voted, not later than a year ago, the criterion of 50%, until the elections of the local authorities and municipalities, where the principle of equal democratic representation between the sexes is also affirmed. The regional element was therefore lacking, and was a necessary coordination, partly because it is true, and we have found and discussed it as such in the Commission, that the individual regional systems, the individual regional statutes, have done so: I can recall, among others, Lazio, Puglia, Tuscany, Marche, Campania, Umbria, Abruzzo, Calabria. It is true that a balance of gender equality has been sought and it is equally true that so far the results have not appeared so satisfactory, if the schedule sees as absolutely prevalent the representation of women in the Campania Region, where however it does not exceed 26 percent, followed by other regions such as Calabria, Veneto, Puglia and Abruzzo, where however the percentages vary from 10 to 4%, with the black shirt of Basilicata, which sees zero representation of women in its Regional Council. This and other considerations which I merely outline but which will certainly emerge in the course of the general debate, as they emerged during our debate in the Commission, make it not appropriate, but necessary to take such a measure, also taking into account the fact that there are already similar provisions from the European Parliament level up to the municipal level. I am sorry for the repetition, but this is a decisive feature of this measure, which wants, indeed calls for and recalls a necessary homogenization between the different electoral and government levels. Again, as I mentioned at the beginning of my short report, the Commission decided to replace the word 'genere' with the word'sex'. Even though it is aware that the term "generous" is consistent with international legislation, it has been assessed that in the first place the term "sex" literally corresponds to the word "constitutional lemma," to the word that the Constitution uses: in every article in which it mentions this aspect of equality (Articles 2, 3, 51 and 117), the word "sex" is invariably used to denote the difference between man and woman; the word "generic" is certainly more widespread at international level, but it is tinged with other nuances that have a matrix not only of anthropological character but of sociological, cultural, political character, of different modes of declination, so much so that it is possible, at international level, to consider even twenty types of gender. It is not the correspondence to the phrase "genre" what was intended to be affirmed as a principle of equal representation of the electoral system within this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u18	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Amati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are once again addressing the issue of gender representation in the institutions, particularly in the Regional Councils. We all know how long and difficult the path is to ensure substantial equality in access to elected positions. The first elections in which women were called to vote took place in 1946, the date of the first free elections since 1924. Then 21 out of 556 women were elected members of the constituent assembly. Without them, the principles of equality would not have been written in the Constitution - at least in those terms - which formed the basis for the transformation not only of the laws, but also of life and the same way of thinking of Italian women and men. The 21 constituents played a key role in the drafting and recognition in the Constitutional Charter of principles such as social equality, equality of all citizens before the law, equality of men and women in employment, moral and legal equality of spouses within marriages and equal access to public offices and elected positions under conditions of equality. It is clear from the reports of debates in the constituent assembly that women - and in particular Teresa Noce - are owed first place to sex in Article 3 and that the term 'de facto' has been inserted to underline the extent and nature of the obstacles to be removed. I would remind all of us of the full text of Article 3 of the Constitution: "All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, without distinction of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions. It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the Country. A fundamental article, which marks the transition to a democracy marked by content of social progress and which is an absolute novelty for those times. The removal of obstacles as the task of the Republic is a completely new element, which is also unique in relation to the contemporary constitutional maps of France and the Federal Republic of Germany. A difficult path, which can be more easily understood thinking that for twenty times before 1946 the request for a vote to women had been submitted and always rejected. The solution is the rebirth of democracy in the country, after the years of fascism and war. It is no coincidence that Sibilla Aleramo said that the depths of horror and tragedy had to be touched so that men could be persuaded to ask for the help of women in society and politics. We all remember that the constitutional freeze then stopped for twenty-four years the birth of the Regions, a fundamental institutional level in the new democratic state. I was elected for three legislatures in the Regional Council of Marche and the first woman - so far the only one - to chair him. As President, I have coordinated the Italian Regional Councils and subsequently the Committees for the Statute, especially in the constituent phase. I therefore have direct and almost uniform experience with respect to what was then the state of the art in the different Italian regions, the obstacles of fact that the other half of the sky, the masculine one, while affirming in words the principle of equal opportunities in competitions, has placed, establishing conditions of access to the offices that have always only nominally guaranteed the effective equality. It is no coincidence that there have always been few elected members of the Italian Regional Councils and even fewer women with particularly important institutional and government roles, always in the Regional Councils, so much so that when on 7 July 2010 we celebrated the forty years of life of the Regions in this House with an important moment of confrontation - I remember directly - on the subject of the system of autonomy, reform of Parliament, forty years after the first election of the Regional Councils, the authoritative rapporteurs were all men. Today, therefore, I strongly support the draft law under consideration which reaffirms the value of equal democracy not as a concession or a gift, but as a right. Any form will then be chosen by the various regional councils, in accordance with the procedures laid down in this draft law, however, will be a great step forward. With the amendment of Article 4 of Law No 165 of 2004 it will be possible to define rules that effectively guarantee a greater presence of women in the Regional Councils, giving concrete follow-up also to the substance of administrative jurisprudence. This finally emerges a new orientation; in particular in recent years decisions of the different TARs have censored the composition of municipal and provincial councils for the absence or the too small presence of women and it has been considered very important to refer to Article 51 of the Constitution and also to Article 6 of the single text of the local authorities, two fundamental elements of the transformation that, however, with the work and the strength of the women, in these years has succeeded to make. By approving this act today, we can finally have more women in the Regional Councils, and this must not mean the opening of a new phase of conflict with men in order to claim more and more power and additional guarantees and rights, but it will facilitate the development of regional rules that introduce more effective solutions for all, adapted to the needs of both men and women. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bernini and Di Biagio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u20	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly grateful to the colleagues who have worked on this text, and I would particularly like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Bernini, for the excellent work she has done in a Commission not by chance chaired by a woman, who has taken care to advance the quality of our democracy by adding to the list of texts available today, which, as Mrs Amati has just said, will certainly help to improve the quality of representation expressed in the territories through the regional vote. Already in the last legislature I had the opportunity to point out in this House, during the course of the course of Law 215 of 2012 on the rebalancing of gender representation, in implementation of Article 51 of the Constitution (a change that cost a lot and that made Parliament a few legislatures ago), such as the one then adopted, a measure of limited scope, was too little, even if a constitutional principle must indicate a road and then leave to ordinary laws the task of consolidating it in the scope of the rules and also in the use and customs. It was important conceptually, as it ignited the debate on the wider issue of representation and its crisis, which it is experiencing, and which concerns it tout court and certainly not only in terms of gender issues; it is a broad crisis, which we hope will help to limit and overcome, because it is a crisis concerning political representation but also that in institutions of various kinds and of various kinds, including those of the economic categories, up to those traditionally expressed by the workers' union, and it is a profound crisis, with respect to which the text of that law could certainly not be decisive: let us hope that this text can instead invite not only political representation, but also all the others, to continue rapidly on this road, which is a road of civilization. Today, the debate on equal opportunities appears to be a tired debate, because it has been standing for years: it is a bit like Italian women are tired of talking about it, and they have the right to do so, because for too many years they have not seen what everyone proclaims at every election campaign and then, punctually, it does not happen. In fact, in some respects there is still no real link, Mr President, between what is called the formal and material Constitution, which in a country lives and walks on the legs of women and men. In other words, there is no adequate recognition of citizenship: this is a broad and delicate issue, which not only concerns the value and dignity of people within a community and a state, but also concerns their role in society. Mrs Amati mentioned this earlier. Women voted for the first time in 1946: certainly, after twenty years of darkness and dictatorship in the country, but also of missed goals that the nascent pre-fascist democracy, often limping, had denied women. When in all other European countries suffrage was universal, in fact, in our country it was not yet universal. Not even with the electoral amendment of 1913, when the electoral law changed, but it did not change the fate of women, who continued to see denied their dignity as citizens, denying the vote. This helps us to remember how, whenever we touch on the sacred principles of coexistence between citizens and in the forms organized by citizens, in that society that we want as open as possible today, we must not forget that, through the vote, one of the fundamental exercises of being citizens in a democratic state, in a rule of law is carried out. The right is celebrated through the exercise of the right to vote and the exercise of the possibility of voting, because this is the subject in question. Those equal opportunities that we call so much, if they are not exercised and if they do not conclaim in the founding and fundamental act of a community, they do not exist, they are not there. The rules we are discussing today also want, as then, to ensure those women who are capable of promoting their moral values and their needs, on behalf of so many women who may not have the opportunity to do so; to take concrete steps to tackle dramatic problems such as the worrying and growing phenomenon of violence against women. A generally widespread violence, which grows widely, but which inexorably affects the weakest links of a society. And I'm convinced that women, even though someone thinks otherwise, are still the weakest links in a society. However, I must take up here the words of Alessandra Servidori, who has been for many years a national councilwoman for equality at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; we too often forget to join and combine the words work and social policies. They are not the same: through work, in fact, the citizen and the citizen promote their ability to stay in society. Through social policies, instead, a rule of law tries to correct the sometimes distorting effects of the economy or other extraordinary and important movements that animate society, through works of equalization, actions and active policies that allow everyone to exercise, in the name of the fundamental principle of equal opportunities, a chance for everyone. The freedom of vote of voters and electricians, said the Servidori, is directly proportional to the equal chance of the lists, candidates and candidates in the electoral competition. What do you mean, Mr. President? This law, if it can take a step forward, does so by putting everyone in the same conditions of departure, without any favor, predetermined or predetermined of the result: this is the most beautiful equality that can be won and obtained. I would add that no electoral system in itself guarantees equal opportunities for men and women. The road indicated by constitutional jurisprudence in recent years with the mechanism of double gender preference indicates that the rules aimed at achieving the objective must not prefigure the electoral result, altering the composition of the elective Assembly, nor give candidates of one or other gender greater opportunities for electoral success than others, leaving unchanged the fundamental rights of active and passive electorate of those who vote with the option - not the obligatory - of the expression of double or single preference. In the light of the famous Kalanke judgment of the European Court of Justice, which those who are experts in the Constitution much more than I will remember very well because it determined a change in the electoral laws, including that of our country, the Constitutional Court has in fact stressed, since 1995, the need to achieve effective equality between men and women in access to elective representation. This requirement is also expressly recognised in the Community and international regulatory context, because it came down from a principle: equality had to be guaranteed in the Community and international regulatory environment. The founding treaties of the European Union and the European Strategy for Equality between Women and Men 2010-2015 raise the issue of equal democracy, which is no longer elusive. An electoral law can no longer fail to take this into account, because, if it did, it would inevitably have to face up to remarks and above all to a cultural and institutional setback that is not acceptable to us. In conclusion, Mr President, this law takes a step forward in the implementation of the constitutional dictation, both in relation to Articles 3 and 51 of the Constitution and in relation to Article 117 which Mrs Amati so mentioned, which stipulates that regional laws remove any obstacles preventing the full equality of men and women in social, cultural and economic life and promote equal access for women and men to elected positions. Mrs Amati puts a lot of trust in this law: I do not know whether at the end of this work and at the end of the implementation of the effectiveness of this law we can really agree with her, but I know that a good job has been done by the 1st Senate Commission, for which I once again thank the colleagues, the President and the rapporteur Bernini for the work they have done and for the debate which, along the lines of the approach given by the Commission and the rapporteur, will lead us to find a real substantial and sustainable balance, not only demagogic or linked to the slogans, which everyone likes to quote but which then leave no trace in the real life of the people. In order to use this time which has also given us for the explanation of vote, Mr President, I announce the vote in favour of the Italian Conservatives, Reformists, to the text of the law under consideration. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u22	Colleagues, before continuing the discussion, also to answer the questions of several colleagues, I warn that the memory of Senator Bruno and that of former Senator De Sena, recently disappeared, will take place in the presence of the family tomorrow, at 10 am and Thursday, at 9.30 am respectively.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u23	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u24	Mr President, with this draft law we are discussing representation between women and men in electoral competitions, particularly with regard to regional councils. It is a little surprising, in some ways, to have to deal with certain issues: we seem to be in an evolved civilization and it seems impossible to have to pose the problem of the representation of women especially in political activity. More than a few years have passed since the great struggles to win the right to vote, but Italy marks a negative figure because it is certainly not at the top of the general consideration regarding equality between men and women. Let's take an example: the Global gender gap report 2014 says that, with regard to the participation of women in the economic field, Italy is in 114th place; with regard to the equality of profitability, you reach 129th place (so women earn significantly less than men); with regard to women in politics, Italy is in 37th place. These are data that do not do us justice, especially if we take into account the fact that in Italy - like it or not like it to colleagues men - the female population is higher than the male one: the Censis data of 2011 speak of 28,645,000 men versus 30,690,000 women. It seems, therefore, quite clear that women should be involved in political activity: not only should they be given the opportunity, but they should be involved. The commitment to achieving this form of equality between men and women in participation in administration and political activity cannot be pursued solely through regulatory obligations; it is a commitment that the parties themselves must take on their own. In this respect, the Northern League has demonstrated a great deal. In particular, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, the representation of the Venetian Liga in Parliament - I am an example of this result - was almost entirely feminine, except for a fellow man. This is to say that it is a commitment that must be followed not only with a regulatory defence, but must enter into a cultural fabric. It is also important that the rapporteur herself made a point in her report when she spoke of a fair competition that must be balanced between men and women and that, therefore, we should not talk about quotas. Setting quotas almost seems to want to relegate the figure of the woman, as if it were an endangered species that needs the protection of the WWF like the wolf or the bear. In fact, this fair competition occurs when men and women are put in the same position to compete. From this point of view, I would like to give an example that comes from the experience of Veneto. I am sorry that the rapporteur, Mrs Bernini, referred specifically to Veneto in order to give an example of a lack of female representation. I remember, however, that the electoral law, voted by the Council of the Veneto Region, among other things with a majority which also participated in the PD, provided for the obligation to list 50% of women. When we went to the last regional elections, that electoral law was applied, therefore, the Venetians were all put in the possibility of voting also women. So the result is a choice that was made directly by the electorate. We are not saying that a quota obligation must be introduced, but it is important that an equal and equal opportunity be ensured. I would like to remind you that Governor Luca Zaia, within the framework of the possibilities that have been granted to him - this is also a matter of primary importance - within his Junta has conferred very important powers especially to female figures, also attributing special importance to them. So when it was time to make a choice, Governor Zaia made it, wanted to reward women and give them the opportunity to express themselves politically, regionally. I would not like to dwell on this subject, from which certainly the ideological profiles or the classic speeches pour parler should be eliminated: instead we must think about concrete situations. In today's debate we are talking about the number of women in politics, but in my opinion we must also mention the major problem of the number of women who are involved in business and that of equal pay in the world of work. But if we want to remain alone in politics, the problem is not just that of under-representation of women: there is a problem of representation, that is, the ability of women to be representative. This is important and can not only result from a quota, a percentage number, an obligation to include women on the lists. It is something different, because simply playing an institutional role means nothing from the point of view of representativeness, which can instead be conquered by cultural activity and training. To conclude, I would like to recall a statement by a great 18th-century feminist, Mary Wollstonecraft, that women must operate in order to reform themselves: only in this way can we have a comprehensive reform. [[Applause from Senator Comaroli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u25	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u26	Mr President, with the adoption of draft law No 1556, at the first signature of Senator Maturani, an important step forward will be taken in the area of democracy: as the rapporteur has already pointed out, the obligation to balance male and female representation in regional councils is to be made binding, setting 60% of the limit for each sex, with the overcoming of Law No 215 of 2012, which laid down mere provisions of principle transposed by regional electoral laws, pursuant to Article 122 of the Constitution, between obligations of equal representation in the lists of candidates and obligations of double gender preference. The model of dual alternating preference has already been adopted by Campania and Umbria, while Tuscany has sanctioned, with the last elections, equality in the system of blocked lists. This legal provision becomes even more stringent in view of the reform of the Senate, as a second-level chamber composed precisely of regional councillors and mayors, in order to ensure a balanced and non-equal composition. However, I would point out that the principle of equal opportunities and equality between the opposite genders, as defined in the European definition, is already a binding legal principle, protecting social and civil values and cohesion, understood as the absence of obstacles to an individual's economic, social and political participation for reasons related to gender. This discrimination is now strongly combated and banned in all Member States, as it could undermine the achievement of the founding objectives of the European Union itself, a principle already enshrined in the Treaty establishing the European Community in 1957 in terms of economic growth, well-being and quality of life, up to the Maastricht Treaty, with equal access to elected posts, and to the Charter of Nice. In Italy, as is well known, the development of these policies was delayed for historical and cultural reasons compared to other countries, for that clearly conservative imprint in ethical and legal terms that accompanied the unity of Italy until the first twenty years of the Republic, when the status of women was subordinate, relegated to family life and to the function of mother and wife, with the de facto exclusion of women from public life. The battles for the right to vote, access to education and public offices, equal pay have found recognition only at the end of the Second World War - as has been previously mentioned - and it is precisely the war that imposed emancipation from traditional roles and the transformation of women into workers in factories, replacing men, and partisans in the struggle for freedom, towards that cultural turning point that the Constitution would establish in inviolable legal principles and civil rights. It is in fact our fundamental Charter, in Articles 2 and 3, that prohibits all forms of discrimination based on sex and establishes substantial, as well as formal, equality. Thanks to the representation of twenty-one women in the constituent Assembly, however, the concept of equal opportunities succeeds in making its way in our country, but only years later, in a season of great social movements and reforms in which women become protagonists before their emancipation and then their equality. Women become active political actors: from guarantees to positive actions at the end of the 1980s; from the National Equality Committee to regional equal opportunities advisors, to Law No 125 of 10 April 1991 on equality in the world of work; from the Women's Entrepreneurship Act (Law No 215 of 25 February 1992), to the Code of Equal Opportunities for Men and Women launched in 2006 and Law No 184 of 2010, which provided for contributory reductions for women's employment and flexibility in working hours. I would like to remind you that we are about to take a very important step further with the provision for the prohibition of discriminatory "resignation in blank" contained at last in the implementing decree of the so-called jobs act. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The recent and late ratification of the Istanbul Convention was also an opportunity to remind the House of how much cultural delay, even legal, produces in social terms and of the violence suffered: it is a real gender genocide, which reminds us of what remains to be done in terms of an integrated approach, which is cultural, legal, prevention, deterrent and education to civic coexistence; from overcoming gender stereotypes, taught in schools and families, to positive actions of the municipalities. This is a cultural battle which is still insufficient to produce the desired civic and democratic turning point. It is precisely the most recent election results - as the rapporteur recalled - that photograph a country that is still at the starting blocks in the matter of female representation in elected political institutions, despite the adaptation of regional electoral laws to the law of 23 November 2012, n. 215, which today we are preparing to make even more binding. It should be borne in mind that the obligation of women's presence on the boards of directors ex lege 120 of 2011, which creates the reserve of a third in listed companies and controlled by public administrations, has produced in Italy a historical change of composition on the state-of-the-art boards throughout Europe, from 6.8 to 33 percent of female representation. However, this historical result has not led to a similar change in the electoral attitude of our citizens. A recent survey by Carlo Cattaneo Institute has in fact established that in the last regional elections in Tuscany alone an effective alternation between man and woman has occurred. Gender equality seems to remain on the ballot in almost all regions that voted between 2013 and 2015. However, preference for women especially helps the most entrenched parties, to mean what a fundamental role in this battle of democracy can play in the full implementation of the constitutional forecast referred to in Article 49, namely the certification that democracy must be adopted and exercised in the parties and their internal organization, even before in the electoral system: in the local political life, in the enlarged participation and in the selection of the ruling classes and candidates to the apical and collegial roles of the institutions. It is perhaps also from there that we need to start again. There is therefore a flop of democracy and representation also certified by the data of the World Economic Forum. This gap is first of all differential and social: Italy remains nailed to 69th place among 142 countries for gender equality, behind Bangladesh. Unemployed women are still 53 percent against 36 percent of men, earn less even if more educated, are head of single parent families at greater risk of poverty and have more difficulty in accessing credit. Gender equality is therefore an element of competitiveness and a factor of democracy for the full implementation of the constitutional provisions referred to in Article 51 of the Constitution, amended - let us remember - in 2003, which requires the adoption of measures for equal opportunities, of which this bill is an expression; constitutional intervention made necessary following the intervention of the Constitutional Court, by judgment No 422 of 1995, on quotas for women. This law therefore contributes, not so much to impose an obligation, but to dispose of an electoral system and helps to consolidate an awareness that it is civic responsibility, even before political representation, to contrast to that invisible barrier, called the crystal roof, which still constitutes a complex interaction of organizational, social and cultural structures and superstructures that effectively prevent equality, which is at the same time conquest of gender, opportunities for progress in a democratic process that is still in progress. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u27	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u28	Mr President, my speech will be in a personal capacity. In all these years I have always been interested in these issues and I make a note immediately: in your opinion, if there were a debate in the United States about the election of senators or congressmen or parliamentarians in individual states, would only women speak? The electoral issues are fundamental and should concern everyone: there is no corporation for which women take possession - in a certain way even in a positive sense - of this matter, which should instead be meditated by everyone, even for the usual history of the heterogenesis of the ends that this type of measures determine. We start with good intentions and then in concrete terms we arrive at results diametrically opposed to those we set ourselves and I take the example of the last regional elections in Emilia-Romagna. A brave colleague of the People's Area Party (NCD-UDC) would today be regional councilwoman, having been first in Bologna with the system of preferences; it is a pity that our party has missed 0.3% of the votes to get the seat. And why did we miss 0.3% and get 2.7 instead of 3 percent? Because in my Province, as in others, we absolutely had to eliminate valid candidates, prepared, former administrators - who would certainly have brought 0.3% missing - to fill the list of women, who were somehow "precepted." The consequence was that, instead of seeing in the Regional Council a good, capable and prepared woman like Castaldini, a man went instead. (17.58) (Followed by Mr Giovanardi). This is to say that, when you want to theoretically achieve a certain result, you then risk having different results and I call the previous one on this subject. Theoretically, we arrive at an equalization between the sexes; it practically happens instead that Antonio, who would like to participate, is eliminated and is prevented from competing and participating in the elections, in order to put in his place any woman. In the same way it can happen that Luisa, who would like to participate, cannot do so because, having already four women - in the case of eight candidates for example - in her place must be put any man, who takes his place on the list. Why has this problem not been raised in mature democracies - in Britain and the United States, which have been the cradle of democracy? Why has no one gone to propose that for every American state one of the two senators is a man and the other is a woman? I believe that if such a proposal were made in the Anglo-Saxon countries, there would be a call for discrimination on equal opportunities. On the other hand, we are a continental system, with an authoritarian tradition behind it, so it is always thought that certain phenomena should be imposed by law: it is by law that all regional councils are obliged to put a share of participation in the lists, even if this in reality causes real discrimination, because on the territory the people who want to participate in the elections are cut off. I wish it were true that in the municipal councils, in the provincial councils that once existed, or in the regional councils there were many women willing to run: those who live the life of the territories and know what the democratic mechanisms are, know the effort that is being made, especially in the small municipalities, to find women who are able and willing to engage. Everyone looks for them and would like them, to qualify and enrich the lists, but unfortunately it is not always possible. We have written what equal opportunities policies should have been; just look at the debate on the reform of the relevant article of the Constitution. It has been said that there should have been no guarantee of the result, but a deep work that would enable women to achieve this result. Women have become hegemony in teaching, in medicine, in the judiciary, in the notary, in the lawyering and also in the competitions to enter the police, because they win more women than men. Women have achieved extraordinary results over a generation; it is therefore right that they should be able to move closer to politics by allowing, through services and through all the mechanisms of freedom of commitment, even women to overcome lost time in terms of access to politics. This is perhaps the only sector, compared to all the liberal professions, in which women are not rightly successful today because of their abilities. It may sound like a joke, but we should get to the point, with regard to the competitions of what were called the liberal professions, of guaranteeing a share to males, because otherwise the disproportion between women winners of competitions and men winners of competitions has become really embarrassing for the male gender (it is clear that this is a joke). Instead of making a policy that allows access to politics, quota policy is being pursued, but this, unfortunately, on the territory gives a result contrary to what is intended. Instead of creating opportunities, discrimination is created; instead of following the general principle that everyone should be accompanied on a level playing field, it discriminates against those who wish to participate and is forced, only because of their sex, to stay out of the lists to give way to those who are somehow prepped to fill the list itself. For these reasons, even in line with the vote I have given in other situations, I do not feel that I support a measure that I consider to be a drift, with very little constitutional or practical reasons for being interpreted in the proposed sense. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u29	Senator Crimi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u30	Mr President, Mr Giovanardi's speech, to some extent, almost convinces me to change my position with regard to this measure, in order not to be associated with his arguments. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Despite this attempt, I repeat what we have already said in the Commission. This is a measure we consider unnecessary from the point of view of the effectiveness and substantial participation of women in politics, because this is what we are talking about. It is useless for a number of reasons, which I will now try to explain to you. It is useless because it is already provided for in Law No 165 of 2004, which is the framework law on regional laws, in Article 4 (c- bis), the promotion of equality between men and women in access to elective positions through the preparation of measures to encourage access of gender under-represented to elective posts. Therefore, it is already foreseen that the regions in their electoral laws will allow a balance of gender representation. This option could be applied immediately in the regions that are governed by the parties that today will vote in favour of this law, without having to go through a modification of that law. The regions governed by the PD, which promotes this law and which will vote in favour of its approval, could already make a bill tomorrow without the need for this law. Why didn't they? Because there is no will. This bill, which is part of Law No 165 of 2004, does not, among other things, provide for any obligation for the Regions to apply it, nor does it provide for a timetable. This could not be foreseen because of the separation of powers between the State and the Regions; therefore the Regions may never apply it. If there really is political will on the part of the parties that are going to vote on this law today, you should impose on the governors of the regions that govern to apply the existing rules immediately or to approve a regional bill to amend the regional law in this sense. There was no need for this bill. As usual, hypocrisy comes out: we make a law to pretend to have made a change, to pretend to be a reform, to make it believe that we are intervening to promote the participation of women in politics; but in fact this text will never find its real application. Rather, what this Parliament could and had to do was to promote participation in political life and not to impose quota list obligations that will then lead, as we know, simply to "refillist," to people who will be put on the list to obtain that quota that otherwise would not allow the presentation of the lists, and then to make electoral campaigns aimed at having only those already predetermined elected, so men and maybe not women who are put there just to be "refillist." This is the absurdity of a bill that imposes on parties that have proposed it to do something that the same parties should or could do independently, without needing a rule to self-impose something. This is the absurd, the hypocrisy of this bill. I remember that Law No 165 of 2004 found application in the Lombardy Region only in 2013, nine years later. Therefore, it is a framework law on regional elections that in Lombardy allowed Formigoni to be elected four consecutive times, although the law provided for a maximum of two mandates for the governor. Today in this text we write rules concerning the right of access to the offices of the least represented sex, approving a rule that could be disapplyed forever, never taken into consideration. Moreover, since it was already planned, since there is already a law that provides for the promotion of equality through the preparation of measures that allow access, if not done by the Regions then, what tells us that now the same Regions will commit themselves to complying with those principles? If they wanted to, they would have already applied the existing rules, with the governors you have in the Regions. Today, for the umpteenth time, prove the hypocrisy of those who only make propaganda, fake; it is a measure that will not be applied immediately because you do not have this will, because you are not interested in promoting the participation of women in political life. If you wanted to do so, we should have passed laws to encourage participation, logistics, to help women: perhaps an expectation paid for the electoral campaign in the presence of children, the possibility of moving; an economic support, always in the presence of children, in order to be able to participate in the electoral competition like those who do not have these tasks. These had to be the real measures that this Parliament had to provide for by national law, certainly not these fake obligations that will never be applied in regional laws. My colleague who will speak in an explanation of vote will argue why we will abstain and stay far away from this debate; because we will do so autonomously and automatically: in making our lists we will self-impose, as you should all do, equal participation of women, because more than talking about participation we are talking about equal rights of access. This is what must be guaranteed, not the obligation of quotas that determine only the famous "refillist" for the presentation of the list, but not an effective participation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u31	Senator Lo Moro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u32	Mr President, Mr Crimi, arguing in depth on an absolutely respectable thesis, makes statements which, however, need to be deepened. In the meantime, we all agree on one point: this is about guaranteeing access; none of us, as Mrs Stefani rightly said, wants to guarantee the result. On the other hand, it would be inconceivable at political and unconstitutional level (many sentences have said so); therefore, we must understand and clarify that we are not talking about quotas and that we are not guaranteeing results. Entering into the substance of the political choice that is being made, it is true what my colleague Crimi says: there was a principle already introduced in the framework law n. 215 of 2012, provision in which I myself collaborated as a Member in the previous legislature, which could bring results because it was expected that equality between men and women in access to elected positions, through the preparation of some measures, would be guaranteed and observed by the Regions. What was the result? The rapporteur has been very analytical in this and has made clear the facts in her report. I speak mainly to tell what happened in the Commission, where there were no exaggerated and exasperated tones, nor positions in favour or against women. It is true that today it is mainly we women who intervene, because it is above all the situation of women that must be protected, given the conditions of departure, and I remember that the modification that has been made, eliminating the concept of gender and replacing it with the concept of women and men, was aimed at clarifying that we do not want to introduce discrimination, protecting it out of all logic, but only guaranteeing equal opportunities. Law No 215 of 2012 did not lead to any result. It is true that there have been regions of various political orientations, such as Veneto, Emilia and Tuscany, which have produced changes of substance by introducing the criterion of 60-40 in the percentages of representation or even equality. What do we note, however, by looking at the results of all the Regions? We note that according to legislation - there is little to discuss about this - there are tangible results that go in one direction or another. Shall we talk about Calabria? There too there was apparently legislation on this subject, with a regional law of 2005 which provided, even at pain of inadmissibility, that there were on the candidate lists of both sexes: in practice it was enough that there was a candidate of different sex. Well, the result is that today there is only one regional female adviser in Calabria. This is not to mention the Basilicata, where there has been no legislation on this matter and we have produced no results, either on the right or on the left. When you talk about these things and the battles that have to do with democracy and civilization, you don't speak for yourself, you don't speak for your own field of action and for your own political field. Among other things, I belong to the PD, for which I am intervening, and I would not need such legislation: we have demonstrated it on many occasions, we have demonstrated the presence of numerous women in this context in which we speak today, we have demonstrated it in recent European competitions, when, in the aftermath of a law suffered, which has not immediately made me satisfied (but today, looking forward, it is certainly one of the most advanced that we have in Europe), the Democratic Party has nominated many women and has almost all had female capilists. For the reasons I have set out, today it makes sense that Senator Bernini of Forza Italia is rapporteur for a measure that has been signed by most of the women and men of the Senate and it makes sense that each of us has given its own reading but always in the same direction: to guarantee an equal democracy on the assumption that the presence of women and men in political life can be an element that brings quality to political life, as have evidenced so many studies on which we have focused. One of the most serious phenomena affecting political life is corruption. We are talking about regional laws and I stress that at regional level we have had so many episodes that unfortunately made us reflect on the conditions under which we operate in our regions. Well, various studies conducted at different levels tell us that there is less corruption where there are more women, not for a genetic diversity, but because having been part and being part of a system of power leads to distortions which, evidently beyond the qualities that women can have, has led to absolutely different behaviors. Today we record a positive moment. Of course, positive moments have now been recorded from some legislature to this side: it is in the last parliamentary term that we have spoken about municipal elections and it is in this parliamentary term that we have spoken about political, European and today regional elections, well aware that we are talking about guidelines and principles (in fact, we cannot intervene on the regions in a binding manner, but only with principles). I want to make a final reflection, as others have done. In particular, I very much appreciated the comment made by my colleague Ginetti, as well as that of Senator Amati and of all the people who have spoken. Today we are talking about one of the painful elements concerning the situation of women's politics, that is, participation in politics, well aware that greater participation is good for democracy, but above all it allows the representation of the interests (in a positive sense) of the women's world. This means, of course, different legislation, which takes into account a number of women's interests and needs. But that's not all. As Senator Ginetti said before, we have made a remarkable step forward in these days (and it took a long time): procedures have been introduced whereby the resignation in white, which was a real shame, should soon be a memory in Italian politics. In this case too, it was a step forward, but we still have to take others. In fact, political intervention and representation are not everything. Senator Amati spoke of substance: when we discuss women in this House, when we discuss violence against women, discrimination in the workplace, unemployment, that is, issues that affect the life and quality of life of Italian families, we talk about things that policy can help, but that are not all summarized in this legislative amendment. That is why it is important for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs today to call for the incardination by Commissions 1a and 2a of a measure, at the first signature of Senator Fedeli, concerning the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on the situation of women and violence against women. We must go hand in hand: we must look at the institutional aspect by ensuring that, where there are positive elements to be introduced, the constitutional dictation is carried out to the end and, at the same time, we must look at the substance. Senator Giovanardi says a piece of truth when he says, for example, that the mechanism of double preference may mean that people who want to vote do not vote because maybe one would choose two men or two women and instead cannot do it: this is a piece of truth, but it is the price that an equal democracy pays to ensure that women and men have equal access to public office. Therefore, denouncing a possible distortion cannot lead to denying the evidence that, without laws, even the very civilized Italy has failed to achieve the results (although in some regions it has succeeded more than in others and even if some political group has succeeded more than others). I thank the rapporteur and the first signatory of the law. We welcome this measure, knowing that it is not everything, but that it represents a very positive moment, which will be welcomed by women on the ground, because they will have an additional weapon to demand regional laws that respect the principle of equal democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Pelino]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u33	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u34	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u35	Mr President, I shall make a very brief reply. I can say that I have confirmed the things I have simply overshadowed in the report and that they have been the result of a very brief debate in the Commission. Faced with a long history, a long experience, a long tradition of presence with an excessively monopolistic masculine vocation within the institutions (on which we are not here to attribute responsibilities or motivations of experience: we do not want to do the exegesis of the sources), what we decided to do was decided precisely because Italy - as Senator Lo Moro said right now and as we said in the Commission - is not a monad, but is a place of united Europe, which also from the legislative point of view cannot fail to take into account foreign experiences in the field and shared principles and values. Equal opportunities, not only in the economic, social, cultural, but also political spheres, are a fact in other countries of the Union and the world. We must now do something and it seems to me that this has been evoked by all the suggestions that have emerged in this debate, by all those who have spoken, even by those who have done so in a dissenting, but I would say constructively dissenting, and I also thank them for their contribution to the debate, both in the Commission and in this House. What has emerged is a need: even those who have said that this law may not be sufficient, said it from a perspective perspective, to increase the presence of women in politics; and he said it by valorizing the party element, of the individual movements, to make possible the presence of women in politics and not only in territorial (common or provincial) levels, where the presence of women is certainly higher ratione loci, for logistical reasons, but also in national politics and supranational organizations, where there are elective criteria that must make possible an equal, orderly, balanced and positive presence of women who suffers from the criterion of equal opportunities. Here, too, the choices have already been made, the dice has already been drawn both at local and European level (apologies for repetitiveness, but this makes the measure of the need for the measure that we are now dealing with). Both at the European Parliament and at the municipal level and at the national level, the electoral law that we have recently voted on has taken on a determination: that of making legislative use of the presence of women in politics as a criterion for the affirmation of the democratic principle. All those who have spoken have stated the importance, the value of the active and passive electorate and the representation on the numbers of the women's presence in politics. That being said, what must be done (not what can or should be done) is to homogenise the only level that has remained at the present time, i.e. the regional level. We have also discussed the concerns of the 5 Star Movement, which has decided to abstain, but in a proactive perspective, inviting us to do, at the level of personal initiative of the individual parties, what this law compulses to do at the level of the frame law, that is, to enhance a proportional almost equal presence of women in politics. I do not share the perplexities of the 5 Star Movement; I believe that the draft law under consideration, by the force of the principle, can make reference to the individual regional statutes, which, moreover, this principle affirms in general terms, an effective arithmetic formula in order to enhance the presence of women in politics. It seems to me that there is agreement on this. I have the impression that everything that has been said, how it has been debated and how it has been affirmed the desire to make this principle more and more active and effective, corresponds to the reasons and efficiency of the text of the standard, that is to say to the drafting and the changes made during the work in the Commission. I join with the thanks, of course, to the officials of the Commission who have contributed, as always, to increasing the original effectiveness of the text; I thank the first signatory of the draft law also for the efforts it has made in this presentation; I thank all the Members who have spoken in favour and also in dissent, because this has given us an important and authoritative opportunity to improve the text; of course, I thank the President of the Commission for wanting, as always, to facilitate the work. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u36	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u37	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u38	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the first standing Commission on the amendments tabled to this draft law, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u39	Mr President, I am surprised that I was the only one to table amendments and I would like to express my appreciation for the work that the Commission has done, improving the text compared to the initial one. I could explain my amendments with a personal need, but that obviously is not personal. In making the calculations, I concluded that I voted more for women than for men, both as an elector and as a Member of Parliament when there were internal votes. But I didn't vote for women because they were women, and the men I voted for didn't vote for them because they were men, but because I thought, with the fallibility that everyone can have, that they were the most suitable people to hold those positions or that they most reflected my way of seeing politics or on specific problems. I would like to be able to continue to vote in this way and, when I am faced with the possibility of expressing preferences or voting for someone, to be able to vote on the basis of ability, ideas and reliability, and not on the basis of whether he is a man or a woman. And I'm not the only one who thinks so because, in the absence of any kind of rule to protect women's representation, in my Province, which is the second by number of inhabitants throughout the country... [[Brusio.]] I apologize to colleagues in the neighboring benches if I speak while they chat. As I said, in my Province my party saw for two consecutive elections in the first two places two women, who are supposed to be the most appreciated by the electorate of my party. Now, it seems that we want to forget a referendum that, not long ago, in the rage of the people, rejected multiple preference. Everyone at the time felt that this was a rejection of preferences as such, but then, of course, he forgot. Now, more or less for the same reasons why twenty years ago preferences were abolished, they want to re-introduce themselves. In fact, they have already been re-introduced into national electoral law, and there are already other laws. Well, if you decide to introduce multiple preference, I would like to be able to do as my party voters have done, voting for two women. No, I can't vote for two women, but I have to vote for at least one man. And it can also happen, ladies and gentlemen, that the two most suitable people (or at least according to the opinion of a single elector) are also men. This can happen, too. In essence, I believe that the meritocracy, which is talked about very much and which is practiced little, should be encouraged rather than mortified by conditions, limits and constraints. It is as if the voter must, yes, choose alone, but it is better that we tell him how to choose. So, you don't want to choose. As for the number of candidates who must be on the lists, I think it is the interest of all the lists (and Forza Italia has done so) to have an adequate representation of both men and women. But it would be especially important to have competent people. You can't even impose an obligation on a list. We remember, in fact, that there are so many electoral laws at regional level. Suppose there is a list of victims of accidents at work, which we know to be in the vast majority men (for a number of reasons easily intuitable). Well, that list should include, roughly, 50% of women. Suppose we make a list of the victims of sexual violence, which - alas - are overwhelmingly women (in fact, the trouble is that there are women in general). Well, that list should have at least 50 percent men. Frankly it becomes difficult to explain it, just as it becomes difficult to explain why, at the same time that an important part of this Senate wants it to be no longer direct, to adopt a child, to be a man or a woman, so a child can have two fathers or two mothers (this says a text that is being discussed and talked about a lot), if instead two preferences are expressed, they must be for a man and a woman. So, it's okay for marriage to be married to two men or two women, as well as to be parents of a child, it's okay for the couple to be made up of two men or two women. But for the vote of preference, these must be a man and a woman and - for God's sake - we do not do certain filthy things among men or women! Frankly, I find this really ridiculous. I also ask myself one other thing: are we sure that being a woman is a disadvantage if we want to enter politics and aspire to certain positions? Are we sure that the daughter, wife, or sister of a powerful and rich family, who have been able to study, are more disadvantaged than the worker's son? Here we will favour only women - as I hope also men - capable, but reality tells us that not always those who reach the highest levels is just the flower of our society. There will be a little help for those who might not need it, while those who really start from difficult situations will hear: Well done: although you started from humble origins, you made it, but there we had to put a woman, so there will be someone's wife or daughter or maybe - and I hope this is the rule - one who is good at her. Margaret Tatcher, Golda Meir, Benazir Bhutto, Indira Ghandi, Angela Merkel or Aung San Suu Kyi, all prestigious figures, without wanting to make a political evaluation, are neither daughters nor the fruit of the pink quotas; nor are they, if I can afford to name some present, not to seem extraneous, Anna Finocchiaro or Annamaria Bernini. I believe that the women present are here because they have demonstrated certain abilities and have proved to be reliable towards all their voters and their party, who have decided to place them in certain positions. Since I would like this to continue in this way, I have tabled a number of amendments. I should like to point out that point 2 of Article 1 of the text we are examining is somewhat ambiguous, because it says two different things, as though one were causing the other. It says that it is necessary to arrange the alternation between candidates of different sex where there are blocked lists, so that candidates of one sex do not exceed 60% of the total. It's two different things. If we want to say what I think we are going to say here, in my opinion we should say that we need alternation and that we must not exceed 60% of the total; otherwise, written in this way, we do not have to say that this alternation achieves that result, but there is a risk that there will be a stiffening of the absolute 50%, so that really could happen what I said before, namely that there will be that or that - it can happen to one or the other - that they will hear: "It would have been up to you, but, you know, you're wrong sex. Finally, there is a lot of talk about primary: many are in favour, some are against, but the Democratic Party in particular practices. In the one-name colleges, where primary schools would be a fairly normal and widespread way in other countries to choose the candidate, I don't understand how to tell the candidates of a city: Choose whom you want, but since in that other city they have chosen men, you have to choose women, or vice versa. How is that possible? Then let's do primary where you vote as you want, then, in the light of the total, if there are too many women, the one who won actually lost because she was a woman or, if there are too many men, what she won lost because she was a man, so it's all a joke. Do we want to look at this issue and, I repeat, do we want to try to do what is already happening? I find this curious. Senator Amati, whom I always appreciate in her speeches, recalled just now what happened with the first elections of 1948, when many women had to ask permission from husband, father or brother to leave the house: well, twenty-one women entered the Constitutional Assembly, who performed an important work, and at the time there was no pink quota; Today, when women have now held, from time to time, all the highest positions of our country in the civil sphere, industry or institutions - just with the exception of the first two positions of the State, but I believe that this will change too - do we need quotas? That sounds like an anachronistic rule to me. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u40	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u41	Mr President, I call for the withdrawal of amendments, otherwise the opinion is against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u42	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u43	Senator Malan, do you intend to accept the invitation to withdraw?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u44	Mr President, under the circumstances, I withdraw all the amendments except the last one, which is the rule that the rule requiring a certain percentage of nominations in single-member colleges does not apply in the case of primary elections. I'd really like to figure out how this works. If in Turin there are the primary and in Novara they have chosen women, you have to choose a man. Is that how it works? I don't know.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u45	It seems to me that the opinions of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government remain the same. Amendments 1,100 to 1,103 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,104. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,104 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u48	Longo Eva (AL-A). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a senator, I can only look positively at a measure which aims to guarantee equal access to elected positions between men and women, including in the Regional Councils, in the wake of what has already been planned for the election of members of the House of Deputies. It is good to point out that this principle is a constitutionally guaranteed and desired requirement in the Charter, especially for the demands of liberal and reformist forces. The role of women in the political and institutional life of the country is an essential condition for effective gender equality, in order to make substance of what would otherwise be exclusively a principle achieved only partially. Fortunately, although there is still a lot of work to be done in this direction, women's participation in Italian institutions is becoming more and more established in parallel with the evolution of the role that women have gradually gained more generally in society. However, we must not forget that this is not a fact of fact the result of a condition and a situation well cemented in our social fabric and - I urge myself to say in our mentality. It took even hard battles both in terms of women's emancipation and in terms of women's protection. All the more so, the measure under consideration today is part of a long path that has its end in the substantial equality between genders. It is a path that - I must say - especially in relation to the way in which the Regional Councils are elected, in some territorial realities has already been firmly undertaken. In particular, not without a hint of satisfaction, I refer to the Campania regional electoral law in force since 2009 and which already provides for equal access between genders in the electoral competition. This is a rule which certainly is a source of pride and which has anticipated six years as much as we are debating in this House today. A norm whose value is even greater, if one considers that it has matured and has been applied with wide results, among the first, in a region of that south always considered retrograde, especially on the social themes, and not able to withstand the comparison with other areas of the country. All this place, remains the regret due to the circumstance for which - despite the countless battles for equality between women and men and despite the unquestionable achievements achieved in this field - in 2015 there is still the need to regulate aspects of Italian public life that should instead have already imposed themselves as a fact. This seems to me frankly a bit mortifying, especially when one considers that the selection of the ruling class should not be entrusted to issues solely related to gender equality, which should instead be established as a matter of fact. Skills, potentialities and meritocracy are the cornerstones of an efficient system: of good, capable and deserving women, ladies and gentlemen, there are really many of them, and the majority of them have joined the representative assemblies at various territorial levels or the Italian political and institutional structure well before the entry into force of regulatory measures aimed at safeguarding gender equality. This is and must be a source of pride for all of us and for the whole country. Amplifying this state of affairs is the objective of the measure under consideration and therefore I can only announce the support of the Liberal Popular-Autonomous Alliance Group. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u51	DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a noble measure that recognises participatory equality between men and women in public life. It is a norm with a declarative rather than constitutive flavor, just as it should be: a taking of action, rather than a conquest. Our vote in favour is obvious and not because it is obvious, but because it wants to be intellectually honest recognition for a clear and natural situation, deeply linked to the harmonious development of the social fabric. Harmony and development come from balanced families, conscious and oriented citizens, from a society that expresses democracy. But it is at the very heart of the norm that I want to speak, to question her how she wants to survive if she promulgated and how she intends to do so in the context of the reforms promised by the government. As a woman, I claim not a condottino, but a real recognition of the right to participate in democratic life. Our attitude seems resoundingly demodé, almost as if we were trying to follow the government reformers, in the footsteps of the suffragettes. Government designs make it obsolete and perhaps make gender swinging useless. In this House and in the future I demand merit and not a right of reserve, unless this means, from now on, that necessary reversal of trend, which is not only desirable, but tremendously necessary, because - it is true - we have founded 50% of mankind, which, however, has reproduced 100% in the family, the traditional one. Finally, I am obliged, having taken advantage of the intervention space allocated to the Group, to point out that, with the necessary distinction, due to the various political and personal sensitivities represented, the LAG Group will vote in favour of the measure under consideration and I will certainly do so, as a representative of the Federation of the Greens. [[Applause from Senator Ferrara Mario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u54	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, in the explanation of vote, the Group of the North Legacy wishes to draw attention to what has already been said during the general debate. In addition to what has already been said, we want to stress that in the first session after the summer suspension we are facing a problem of this nature, in the face of the emergencies that in our country are now reducing more than one family on the pavement. Let us remember all that mass of women who are in the situation of having to carry out difficult family situations, as well as all that world of "exoded" women, in a country where women's pay is far below that of men. We are faced with a situation in which women, in fact, cannot move forward and are severely penalized. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The crisis we are going through is penalising young people and women. It is certainly not with the 60% reserve forecast that you can get who knows what result. In order to give a concrete representativeness to women also within the institutions and politics we need a path of culture and real interventions: only through these we can make a serious reasoning about the measure. It is obvious that there are parts of the bill that we cannot but share, as there are others - I am sorry that Senator Malan withdrew the first amendment, which spoke of the expression of double gender preference - which we believe could be changed. In any case, the Group of the North Legacy wishes to stress that it is pointless for this House and Parliament to continue to be occupied and engaged in measures that are not bringing anything to the country, if not finishing, while we still have to deal with some essential issues. As I said, there are some reasons why we believe that the measure can be shared with the clarifications that we have indicated. We are not talking about quotas, because they can probably only serve endangered species; we must provide for a system that, as was said, guarantees the effectiveness of a balanced competition between men and women. As we have already said at the end of the general debate, it is pointless to talk about under-representation when the same representativeness is lacking. It is useless to foresee a system in which a woman necessarily has to play an institutional role, because the woman who goes to perform an institutional task must be formed, prepared and strongly representative, with her own follow-up. This can only happen through cultural development. We are not talking about impollous, architectural systems or that, in some ways, may seem anachronistic. In conclusion, I invite the representatives of the majority, the Government and the President of the Council to start seriously thinking about how to move this country forward without always doing the usual philosophies. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u57	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the Senators of the SEL component will vote in favour of this draft law, as well as - I believe - most of the Senators of the Mixed Group. Our vote in favour - let me say this - knows a bit of bitterness, because this bill (as well as the work and discussion we have done in the Commission) is yet another attempt to give indications to make the principle enshrined in Articles 3 and 51 of the Constitution a little more binding. That principle has indeed had great difficulty in asserting itself at the parliamentary level, but above all at the level of regional councils, as in the case of this draft law. Hence the bitterness. The draft law that we will be approving in this House in a few minutes comes after the last round of elections at the Regional Councils, at which we once again bitterly had to see that Article 51 of the Constitution - at least as it seems - has certainly not been fully implemented. I don't want to call the data back here, but they're pretty discomfortable. The speech concerns not only Basilicata, where there was no elected woman, but also that of Puglia, Abruzzo (of 31 elected, only 2 women), Sardinia (of 56 elected, 4 women) and Lazio, where the majority of women (10 women) were not elected with preferences, but was included in the list: this is what we are talking about. Why am I talking about bitterness? Because this bill comes after that result. However, there is also a further bitterness arising from the fact that I personally have a great deal of fear - and it has also been felt in the debate in this House today - that unfortunately this draft law, which also contains precise indications on the system of preferences (double preference), colleges and other systems, is likely to fail to apply. There is a fact that concerns the autonomy of the Regional Councils in the electoral field. We had, for example, the experience of Puglia, where with our president, Governor Vendola, was passed, among other things, in Junta a law that sanctioned the double preference: despite the very strong political pressure made by the president himself, the result was that the Regional Council made other choices. I would also like to add another bitter consideration. Today the Assembly of the Senate has resumed its work, with a great expectation on constitutional reforms: however, be careful that, according to the configuration of the Senate provided in the draft Constitutional Reform Act and according to the current data of presence of women in the Regional Councils, it will come to a Senate in which the number of women elected, or better indicated in the second level, will be very low. This problem will therefore affect - and this is one of the elements that should make many reflect - also heavily on the configuration of the Senate, as wanted by the majority. I would also like to put other questions here, because there have also been speeches here today - last but not least that of Senator Malan, with his amendments - which tend to reproduce a reasoning according to which, in the end, good women enter both Parliament and the Regional Councils. First of all, however, there is a fundamental question: there is a time when quantity also makes quality. A large number of women within the institutions obviously produce in themselves - just that quantity - a quality element, both in legislative and legislative production, and in the further capacity to continue that cultural and political battle within the country itself. Then there's still another element. If there were access to competitions in or in the Regional Councils (e.g. public competition), perhaps there would be more women, as is happening in a number of professions. I am thinking, for example, of the very high number of women in the judiciary, where it has exceeded the 50% threshold, on the subject of merit. So if we were to enter by competition - and I say this paradoxically - we would perhaps have a number of presences, both in Parliament and in the Regional Councils and in the various institutions, certainly well over 50%. And that is not a joke: I believe that the issue of merit is very serious, but the mechanisms of politics and, above all, the electoral mechanisms or the parties produce or have produced over the years very heavy results in terms of penalising women themselves. There is another critical element. Where the double preference mechanism has been well applied, for example, we have achieved important results. Another issue concerns the sanction mechanism, because the results were where there was a penalty for lists that did not have the alternation mechanism or had no equal presence of men and women on the list itself. This - in my view - is an element of weakness in the draft law under consideration. Since there is no possibility of implementing sanctioning mechanisms, together with the autonomy of the regions in electoral matters, the result risks not being what we hope. But all this does not lead us to say that the bill is useless. In my view, in fact - and that is also why our vote will be in favour - this is another element that can strengthen appeals against electoral laws that do not provide for the effective possibility of ensuring the application of Article 51 of the Constitution and equality itself. It is in this spirit, therefore, that we are about to vote in favour. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u60	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the People's Area will vote in favour of this measure, or at least those that remain of the People's Area. I have always thought that the law had its own pedagogical scope and that it is not really true that the action of the small steps cannot actually lead to great results. On the other hand, if our constituent Fathers had thought this way, we would not have had the opportunity to have legislation that favours women's access to parliamentary classrooms, to the classrooms of the municipal and regional councils. It was a very slow and very contrasted march. And today's is certainly not a decisive step, but it is certainly another small step towards that kind of result. For us, it is a question of guaranteeing not the end result, but the possibility of fair access. In Italy we have seen extremely varied situations. It is true that in many municipal fora, after Parliament expressed itself, women's participation was greater: women were more represented in those fora, making their contribution. In a society as complex as ours - I dare say almost liquid - the paternity and motherhood of important choices for society must be absolutely shared. And we believe in this mutual help, which also leads to people eating, because more people succeed together, through their sensibilities and differentiations, to bring unmistakable advantages to the progress of Italian society. This is sacrosanct for us, it must be valued and enhanced. It is another small step, which we give to the new generations and to the new constituent fathers who will have to build the new Constitution that - we hope - leads to an ever greater equality of shared access, recognized. And we also grant it to all the free thinkers of our society, because if you do not change your head, culture and heart, the scope of the law will produce little. We therefore welcome this new small step, certain that great adventures always start with small steps. And this is definitely a great adventure for us. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u63	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, 81 years; 972 months; 29,565 days: I am not giving the numbers or predicting the life expectancy of some distinguished colleague. Hand calculator, it will take 81 years before the socio-economic gender gap between men and women in Italy is closed. And I do not say that, but the World Economic Forum, which annually produces analyses on the subject. This, to say the least regrettable, is also linked to the draft law before us today, which aims to ensure a balance in the representation of women and men in the regional councils. So, what did you think you would do to solve this long-standing problem? You gain the list of fillers and you arrange that candidates of the same sex do not exceed the 60% quota. This, however, is equivalent to creating fences within which we want to feed the elected futures of the female sex, treated - no more, no less - like endangered species. Once again, therefore, the objective is missing, surfing the surface, without scanning the depths of a theme that has much deeper roots. Once again we are teasing ourselves, curing with a warm straw a matter that would need a real rescue plan. It is a text, that we examine, which intervenes on the framework law concerning the elections of the Regional Councils and which will enter into force in the various regions only and exclusively when the same Regions decide to do so. If translated, this means: no effective operation, but only principles, good intentions and many dear greetings. In this sense, the last regional elections have made politologists, fanatics of predictions shudder and, not least, every single supporter of the equality operation. Just to use a comparison, in the last election round there was only one pink place compared to five blue jobs. Real painful notes, then, were recorded in Umbria and Puglia. Specifically, in Puglia, the Region from which I come, only five out of fifty-one councillors are women; of these five Apulian women - and I say this proudly - four belong to the 5 Star Movement; eventuality that would never have come true in our absence. Analysis of the vote apart, it is clear that promoting equal opportunities between men and women is not resolved by changing the provisions of principle relating to the system of election of the President of the Regional Council and regional councillors, or at least not only in that. The proof lies in the fact that many regional statutes contemplate the principle of equal opportunities in electoral competitions and, despite more or less strong efforts to do so, the letter remains dead, because the percentage of female attendance in the regional councils has recorded and continues to record humiliating percentages. The truth is that the effectiveness of an equal competition between women and men goes through areas and fragments of everyday life that each woman, every day, has to face, starting from education, passing through work, up to the heroic management of the professional world with that of family, motherhood, personal realization. We are talking about generations of women forced to part-time (31.1 percent versus 7.1 percent of male workers), in a continuous game of alternatives, all downward, where there is no distinction between private and public sphere; generations of women juggling between the multiple roles that, in a induced or connatural way, see them as protagonists: daughters, mothers, wives, workers. The crisis of representation, therefore, does not only affect the political class. Women lack the call for participation in the world of the economy, great opportunities, and even from the digital point of view. Suffice it to say that, at the time of the Internet and social networks, Italians are the ones who use the net less than male peers (51 percent versus 61 percent). The World Economic Forum speaks for itself: in a global picture of the gender gap in terms of health, education, economics and politics, Italy has - and I am well aware - the sixty-ninth place behind Bangladesh and, in any case, is at the last place among the major industrialised countries. Bad snapshots for the territory are these, with a position that drops drastically to the number 129 when it comes to equal pay for equal work. This means that, at least for quite a while, our daughters, grandchildren and great-grandchildren will not live professional seasons of equality - absolutely not - but will continue to receive doors in the face or, at best, to be vexed by intransigent garments, penalizing economic treatments, stressful shifts. Returning to us, the report of the bill before us today states that the presence of women in the institutions represents the achievement of a fully completed democracy. I would add, however, that a fully completed democracy must consider the presence of women who do not necessarily have to choose between work and family, who are not afraid to marry, live together, have children, who do not have to wait 20 years to make a career. For these reasons, the 5 Star Movement expresses its abstention vote on the measure in question. It is an act of honesty as well as consistency with a system and legislation that have not cared at all to remove the real obstacles that prevent women from living, growing and expressing themselves in an equal context. The balance and rebalancing of representation in the Regional Councils is welcome, but it is the method that needs to be changed. The fixing of quotas imposed by law is not a road, it is not the road. If, therefore, it is true that Article 51 of the Constitution states that all citizens of one or the other sex can access public offices and elective offices under equal conditions, it is also true that this objective can and must be achieved through the fundamental principles, i.e. through Article 3 of the Constitution. It is one of the most significant, if not the most significant, principles that our constituent Fathers could have written. It is an article that, in its second paragraph, establishes a duty that no administrator of the public thing should ever forget: It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the Country. These are timeless values, where equality is not exalted as a point of arrival, but equality in being different. Italy, from this point of view, has before it, really, a long, long path to take. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u66	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the reopening of the work of this House, after the summer break, it is most desirable to resume our institutional commitment from the debate on the draft law on today's agenda, which contains provisions aimed at ensuring a balance in the representation of women and men in the regional councils. On the basis of the technical aspects of the bill, which are well-defined, it is established, as a basic ratio, that candidates of the same sex do not exceed 60% of the lists admitted to the electoral competition. The article examines three hypotheses, depending on the model used by regional electoral laws. The first hypothesis refers to electoral laws that admit the expression of preferences: in this case, the expression of at least two preferences must be allowed, with one reserved for a candidate of different sex. The second hypothesis concerns electoral laws that provide for lists without expression of preferences: in this case it is necessary to provide for alternation between candidates of different genders. The third and last hypothesis refers to the electoral laws based on one-name colleges: on this occasion the assumption is that the electoral law arranges the balance between nominations presented with the same symbol. In addition, the bill can be appreciated on the basis of some more markedly political considerations. Firstly, it should be stressed that the legislative proposal is a bipartisan proposal. The need to affirm the balance in the representation of men and women, including in the Regional Councils, is felt by all political forces without any distinction. Secondly, this draft law is in line with the constitutional dictation and is in close continuity with some recent interventions by the legislator. Article 51 of the Constitution states that the Republic shall promote with appropriate rules equal opportunities in access to elected posts. The seventh paragraph of Article 117 of the Constitution also calls on regional laws to remove any obstacles preventing the full equality of men and women in social, cultural and economic life and to promote equal access for women and men to elected positions. The guarantee of equality between women and men in political representation has been introduced into the legal provisions concerning the election of Italian representatives to the European Parliament. So too, in the law governing the election of Members of the Chamber of Deputies, the formula has been introduced that candidates of the same sex do not exceed 60%. Finally, in view of the reform of the second Italian Chamber of Parliament, whose members will for the most part be elected among the regional councillors (specifically the new Senate will be composed of 74 regional councillors out of a total of 100), it is very necessary to establish rules of law aimed at ensuring equal representation between men and women, as the balance between the two sexes will have a significant impact in the composition of the Senate of the Republic. Again, from the point of view of my geographical belonging, Abruzzo, I do not hide my vigorous support for the purposes pursued by this bill. Senator Bernini's wise report shows that the percentage of women in the Regional Councils has imperceptible percentages. In Abruzzo, in particular, although it is not the only region that has a laughable female presence, the women who sit within the Regional Council represent only 7%. It is a fact that I take as a reference not only because it was closely involved, but also because it photographed the real situation of various regional Councils ranging from North to South. For these reasons, I declare that the Forza Italia Group is voting in favour of the adoption of the draft law before this House. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u69	Mr Maturani (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, what we are about to vote on is a bill of which I am honoured to be a signatory and - as Senator Pelino pointed out - a bipartisan text. I want to make it clear at once that it comes from afar, from the protagonism of women who, at the end of the last parliamentary term, with their mobilization in the squares of our country that they have filled, and especially with the work done by colleagues in the last parliamentary term, have said: we are here, we are here and we want the institutions finally to take a form that contemplates the equal participation of both sexes. We were faced with a crisis of the credibility of representation, a break between politics and nation that has led to one of the most dramatic hairpins of recent decades. Faced with these data, those years recorded a feminine protagonism to which the institutions had to respond and did so starting with assuming responsibility in front of a piece of their electorate not insignificant (the female one), starting from the distorted representation that in many years had. We have answered the increasingly pressing question of redesigning public space, giving women access to polis and beginning to take note of a structural deficit in our culture and, therefore, in our institutions. We have thus witnessed the adoption of two important laws: the first is Law No 120 of 2011, on equal access to the administrative and supervisory bodies of listed companies, and the second is No 215 of 2012 on the so-called double preference, which has allowed a rebalancing of gender representation in local administrations. This is Parliament's activism which has not been interrupted and which has continued with the new legislature: in this sense I am thinking of Law No 65 of 2014, of which the Vice President of this House, Senator Fedeli, is first signatory, who has introduced a mechanism for gender rebalancing for European consultations, guaranteeing at the last elections a number of elected to the European Parliament to a far greater extent than previously recorded. Finally, I am thinking of the new electoral law for the House of Deputies, which provides that neither gender can be represented in excess of 60%. Well, with the bill that we are going to vote on at first reading we try to align with the data of the other assemblies also the regional ones, which have so far remained waterproof, as the distressing data of the last regional elections confirm us, to the political protagonism of women. I could talk to you about the obligation we have to fully implement the combined provisions of Articles 3 and 51 of our Constitution, as well as I could talk about the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I am thinking of No. 49 of 2003 and No. 4 of 2010, with which the judge of the laws made it clear that the regions must establish how necessary the promotional activity for equal access to consultations. But the point, in fact, is not only of civilization and legal culture, which is also essential. No: the point is all political. The presence of women in the institutions represents the achievement of a fully completed democracy. Women are not a quota to be protected or a category of interest. We remove the field from any terminological and above all cultural distortion: women are founding partners to 50 percent of mankind. From this premise starts the bill and to this data looks. Women are not a weak person, they no longer have to prove anything in the political race, anything else. This is testified by our daily affirmation of talent, knowledge and competence; the authoritativeness with which we hold positions of political responsibility in Italy, as well as in international theatres, to an increasing extent. The point is that an adequate public projection is not paid to this force for long decades. It is a hiatus which, if partially filled in the parliamentary classrooms, municipal councils and corporate boards, in the last European consultations is still far from being filled in the regional councils. This is no longer acceptable, even in the light of the path of institutional reform that this Parliament has taken, where the Senate of the Republic that is emerging will be composed for the most part of regional advisers. Well, even in the face of this path, the need to ensure a balanced gender representation is pressing, because it is difficult to think of redefining a constitutional system where a House would not guarantee the effective political participation of women in this country. From these considerations comes this bill, for the path of which I cannot but thank in no way ritual, but authentically heard, President Finocchiaro, Senator Lo Moro, Head of the Democratic Party in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the rapporteur Bernini, for the attention and determination with which they guaranteed the arrival in the Chamber. A warm thanks also goes to my Parent Company, Senator Zanda, and to all the colleagues who have committed themselves not only to the Commissions but also to this House, helping to reflect on the importance of the draft law under consideration. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I give a warning: remember that we make the culture of a people even with its laws, laws that sculpt and guarantee the fullness of the law. The legislator is also responsible for this task and, when it is carried out, it does not guarantee quotas or categories. No, he does more than that. It redesigns the spaces of a rule of law and redesigns them to the measure of two, the two founding partners of mankind. That is why, Mr President, I am voting in favour of my Group. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u70	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, as a whole, with the following title: Amendment to Article 4 of Law No 165 of 2 July 2004 laying down provisions to ensure a balance in the representation of women and men in regional councils. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u73	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, this afternoon we have had yet another proof of what President Renzi's institutions mean. It is already news from the agencies that I was able to see with my own eyes together with Senators Centinario and Arrigoni, that is, a meeting between the President of the Council - in this case it should be understood whether he was there in that capacity or in that capacity as Secretary of the Democratic Party - and the top manager of the multinational Uber in Nazarene. It was held this afternoon, well aware of the interests in the field and with full contempt of court judgments that define what is lawful and what is not in public transport. All this gives the idea of the way Uber is going and of the intention of the President of the Council of Ministers, that is the secretary of the PD, that is, to hack into the lobby below the table. As the taxi drivers have remembered today, we know that these are at stake (Senator Candiani shows green banknotes), green bucks, dollars, and we also know that they are so convenient to a party that is thirsty for money. What we do not conceive of is how only one person can play the institutional role of President of the Council, without respecting the judgments of the courts, and of party leader who runs under the table. Know, President Renzi, that on these games we will always be intransigent and we will always be on the side of honest workers who pay taxes and have the right to see their work respected we will be on the side of taxi drivers against Uber. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u74	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-499.ana.u75	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 9 September, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.28 a.m.
