ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.40 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:44 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 1429-B, which was first approved by the Senate and first amended by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u9	Mr President, we would ask for a few minutes' suspension so that we can assess the rewordings. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). But how, they say to go fast and shipped and the government is obstructing?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u10	However, the notice period of 20 minutes should apply. I therefore suspend the sitting for 30 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.46 a.m. and resumed at 10.21 a.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u13	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to raise a question concerning the Presidency Council, so there is a specific request with a short premise. We haven't had... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u14	Excuse me, colleagues, but we can't hear Senator Gasparri.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u15	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Mr President. We haven't had a chance to see Senator Cociancich's famous amendment yet. Yesterday, a number of Members raised a problem with regard to the signing, but I do not repeat the things I have said, which I agree with. However, the fact that we have not seen this paper with a signature puts a suspicion and a problem on the vote on Article 1, because we voted on an article with an amendment whose formal and substantial correctness remains a mystery of the Republic. As we are redoing the Constitution, the issue is far from closed. After that, I posed a problem that I come back to raise. The fact that we use collaborators, offices, consultants is absolutely normal and we all do that. It is not that a Member comes here with a pen and writes the jet laws; it may happen, but the rule is that we consult, prepare ourselves, compare ourselves. However, I believe that at this stage there is urgent action, even physically, in the ambulances of the Senate and in the meetings, of the Secretary-General of the Presidency of the Council, who is an administrative figure; he is not the head of the legislative office, but he has another function. The fact that a head of the legislative office attends meetings is perfectly normal, indeed it is necessary. The Secretary-General of the Presidency of the Council performs different functions in the legal system of the Republic, so it is true that the Presidency of the Council is endowed with a legislative office with a person responsible for carrying out the essential functions, which also take place in the Ministries and everywhere. I am here to raise a specific problem that also concerns the Senate, because there is this function of the Secretary-General, author, presumed or real, of pressure that I believe is renewed on the procedures aimed at choking a debate. It is clear that those who table the amendments take responsibility for it, but we do not know, see the previous point, whether in the specific case Cociancich has signed or if someone has given his name. Dr. Aquilanti, in my opinion, is playing a role which is not consistent with the role of Secretary-General of the Presidency of the Council, who is not its head of the legislative office of the Government, the man who decides amendments and strategies. Above all, it is an official of the Senate of the Republic who, through - and I come to the request - the Presidency Council has been authorized, out of role, to act as Secretary-General of the Presidency of the Council. I would also ask, as a member of the Council itself, that the Senate Presidency meet to consider whether Dr Aquilanti's out-of-role position could be revoked, whether he could either return to office or retire and do whatever he wants in life (then there is the theme of roofs, payments, other related and related issues). The request - I repeat and finish my speech - is to bring the Presidency Council together so that we can assess Dr Aquilanti's position. In the meantime, I invite you as President to ensure that in the Palaces, at such a delicate constituent stage, everyone plays their part: the senators, the parliamentarians in general, the officials, the collaborators, the authorized ones; those who have other functions, take care of the administrative affairs of the Presidency of the Council, which, moreover, they carry out at the expense of the Senate, given the out-of-place position. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups and Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u18	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, please take these requests very carefully and seriously. Yesterday, Mr Calderoli made a written request to the Senate presidency to have the original or copy of the original signed by the famous amendment 1,203. Since enough has been said about this amendment, which can be called a killer and has completely changed the course of our work, what if it turns out that the document does not exist or is false? It would drag the whole Article 1 into nullity and bring down the entire reform that we are approving. You, Mr President, have a great responsibility. Today Mr Candiani, with the signature of fourteen other colleagues, has returned to his secretariat the request to have that document. Mr President, if we do not receive an answer today, we must not resort to the judiciary. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I am begging for the eventuality of having to resort to investigators, who could not be denied access to documents. Do not force us to resort to practices that are not in this House and that we ourselves do not want. We would merely like to check the regularity of our operations and work and to have a copy of the act in question. I would also like to support Mr Gasparri's arguments. There is a great voice in the Senate and it seems that the President of the Council and the Ministers arrive calmly here, while the Secretary-General of the Presidency of the Council is here early to prepare practically all the work. Since he is a commanding executive of the Senate, one wonders whether it is possible for him to stand as commissioner of the body to which he belongs. There are many and many discrasies and this is another situation to be supported and ascertained. Mr President, we have twice asked for a copy of the famous amendment 1,203. If it exists, it is original and it is signed, there is no problem to continue the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u21	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I take the floor briefly with reference to Senator Gasparri's speech to beg him and all his colleagues to respect the senate officials and not to bring them into our debate. We have everything to lose in trying to politicize a body that works for us, with care, objectivity and neutrality. I therefore call for a great deal of caution and caution in carrying out this kind of intervention. Allow me, Senator Gasparri: I beg you not to do this, because you are Vice President of the Senate and you know well the abnegation with which the officials' body works from morning to evening for us. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] WOMAN (M5S). For you! ZANDA (PD). I think that officials should, therefore, be protected and not accused. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u22	Senator Zanda, to be exact, it seems to me that Senator Gasparri spoke of an out-of-role senate employee and, therefore, I don't think he did a generalization on the senate employees. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u25	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, at the end of yesterday's sitting there was a wonderful speech by President Chiti, whom we have all followed. He referred to the nobility of politics, but also to the acts we are currently carrying out with constitutional reform, and he asked the opposition representatives for something important for me: to give space to the merit of the issue that we are facing and to avoid a battle of methods, fights, counters and insults, which ends up delegitizing also the legitimate political opposition that can be had against this reform. Senator Gasparri, frankly you know the esteem and also the friendship that exists between us. But this morning I consider your speech to be a complete out-of-work. An off-the-shelf official, currently Secretary-General of the Presidency of the Council, is accused of playing a role of assistance, which is due, moreover, to the Ministers or the Government, and for which he is a Member of the Council to play a role of institutional support. Frankly, I do not see how important it can be, except to be loyal to the institutions it serves. However, we all know very well - because this is the case - that this debate marks a moment which is not always in line with the story that we are experiencing a constitutional reform and a overcoming of bicameralism, which is historically required. There is a weakness of politics. Well, ladies and gentlemen, politics is not only weak, but it humbles itself and subdues itself when, in order to demonstrate its power that simulates real impotence, it comes after officials, who are in themselves a guarantee for everyone. I remember what a colleague of the 5 Star Movement of the Chamber of Deputies told me about the administration staff. He told me that they did not know him and that, after a few months in there, they had to recognize so much of a hat to officials - both of the House and of the Senate, I add, because there is no difference between the two administrations - for their competence and seriousness. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Misto-IPI Groups.]] I believe that we have an interest, colleagues, in keeping out of the controversial secretaries-general and deputy secretaries-general of the Chamber, Senate and Presidency of the Council, just as we are interested in keeping the President of the Senate out of the controversy, because his choices may also be questionable, but his role today is a guarantee for everyone in this House and out of here. When we have all demeaned, let us not be surprised if we are all defiled. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Misto-IPI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u28	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to thank you for your clarification that the reference was not to Senate officials, but to those who, by requesting it, are seconded to the Government or carry out other functions. Therefore, it is certainly not about those who work with us, who receive our thanks. If, however, President Casini's arguments are correct, then the opposite must also apply in the same way. This means that any official of the House and Senate must leave the Council of Ministers at the same time as it takes place. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Donno.]] President Casini, I didn't understand something. I have not even mentioned it, out of respect, but it has happened to me several times these days to meet the above-mentioned official outside the Chamber. I do not remember in history, not even in the days of fascism and the duke - I did not attend the classrooms at that time - that there was a government commissioner outside the parliamentary classrooms. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Simeoni. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u29	Senator Calderoli, this is your illusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u32	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, the problem with officials arises when they are appointed in positions by the Presidency Council. There is no external organ that does this and, therefore, it is normal for people outside to think that they are politicized. [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]] With all due respect, I'm a commissioner and, so, a lot of officials... [[Comments by Senator Del Barba.]] Montevecchi (M5S). Shut up! BOTTICS (M5S). Let me talk, Senator. When I'm done, you can talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bottici, please address the Presidency. BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, like the Quaestors, I and the other two colleagues We have a lot to do with officials and all employees, as employers too. And that doesn't take away the professionalism of our employees. Therefore, the speech must be separated, because no one is attacking the professionalism of the employees. You are saying to be careful, because what may seem out of here may be something else. Then I want to close the speech, because it is not right to talk about officials in this House, and I would like to refer to Senator Chiti's speech last night, who wanted to get into the substance of the reform, because then it is we who are leaving the substance. He spoke of a record of 1993, which we have now established is not applicable. In 1993, as there was an agreement between the political forces, the possibility of amending all parts of the Constitution was reopened, while today, following Senator Chiti's speech, there is no such basis for political agreement. But let's ask ourselves why. The majority of the PD did not find or wanted to reach an agreement with the opposition, and that is why there was a strong debate in this House. It's not the opposition they don't want to talk about. It has already been established here, from the outset, that things must go this way, because there is so much Senator Verdini, who is only coming to this House these days to support the PD. Then there is another matter. There was talk of syntax. I do not want to reopen the issue of the law of stability that the Democratic Party and the other part of the majority voted for even though there was a lack of a part of it. According to the Finocchiaro amendment, the fifth paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution, with the amendment to Article 2, will provide that: The term of office of the senators coincides with that of the bodies of the territorial institutions from which they were elected, in accordance with the choices expressed by the voters for the candidates councilors on the occasion of the renewal of the same bodies, in accordance with the procedures established by the law referred to in the sixth paragraph. Now, the mediation that the Democratic Party insists that it found is only within the same PD, because what we asked for was another, but it didn't change anything. The law that was to indicate how councilors would be elected, which would then be the future senators, was already included. So, you are not allowed anything. It's just been put in for membership, to make you a little happier, but nothing's changed. We don't even talk about mayors here. And since Senator Chiti is Tuscan and knows his Region well, I would like to understand how we in Tuscany choose mayors and regional councillors. Since our law is the only one that provides for the ballot, how do we choose them? Do we make them up or draw them by lot? Therefore, before we say that mediation has been found, in order to approve a Constitution a little more functional, we need to reason, because this does not stand. And you'll only notice when Prime Minister Renzi dissolves the Chambers, all of us will stay home and the country will have neither a Senate, nor an electoral law, nor a Chamber, but we will be truly in the hands of a dictatorship. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni. Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u35	MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, frankly, I did not want to speak, but Senator Chiti's speech yesterday and Senator Casini's speech today force me to do so. In comparison with the Constitution, the form is also substance. We cannot imagine that such an important issue for the country can only be addressed at the level of content and not, especially in a debate like this, at the level of the "how". I want to start with a premise: some of the arguments used by Mr Bottici are absolutely well founded. In 1995, the former President of the Republic of Naples and the current President of the Republic presented a bill of reform, according to which, in order to change the Constitution, a majority of two-thirds of the voters would be required. Afterwards, two reforms were not followed. It is not, of course, sixty-eight years that we are waiting for reforms: reforms have been approved. There was a reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, which was then changed by the next majority and, later, a reform was approved by the center-right, which instead was rejected by the country. And this happened because, for both of those reforms, there was a lack of that large majority which, in fact, would have guaranteed their acceptance by the whole country. Even compared to the past, the attempt we are making from a certain point of view is even more perilous than the other, because, even if we have removed it, this is a Parliament, for some parts, illegitimate. And I'm not saying it, but the consult says it. If that is true, it is clear that the type of distress with which the government and the majority should have faced the issue of constitutional reforms should have been another. There should have been a continuous attempt, precisely because there was this original sin, to involve the greatest of the forces present in Parliament to change the Constitution. Unfortunately this has not been done - and here it is clarified because the form is also substance - and we have had a series of forcings, one after the other. Mr President, 72 million amendments will be exaggerated, but the examination of Article 1 of the draft law will only result in five or six votes. Mr President, you announced 16 secret votes on Article 1, but there was none. In Article 2, six have been announced and perhaps there will be one. All this shows that there has been no real confrontation: the problem is that this House has been expropriated from confrontation, because the only element of agreement has taken place not within this House, but outside it, in a party direction, i.e. the PD. Also in the vocabulary - and I am referring not only to yesterday's subject, but also to today's subject of the election of senators - the result was something absolutely twisted, which resembles more a congressional motion than a reform of the constitutional text, on which, among other things, our soldiers will have to swear. Then we must be careful, also because there is something new about the past. I did not vote in favour of this constitutional reform even last time, but at least on that occasion, of the three major poles that had emerged from the last elections, two had said yes. Now of the two poles that had approved the reform the other time, there is only one left (a party is extinct, and it was Civic Choice) and the refugees of a sub-parliamentary. Do we know where we're going? We're retracing Title V, but worse. We're making the mistake the center-right made, but worse. I pose a problem, then, and I say this because we are making a mess of values, principles and rules: if this is the situation, it would really be good to decide to close this Senate. It would be much better because, to bring out a parody Senate, we are destroying the democratic mechanisms of our country. That is why I believe that, from this point of view, there should be more attention. Otherwise, all this work will end either by being defeated in the referendum or by not being accepted, as should be a Constitutional Charter, which in fact - the word itself says - is the Charter on which it constitutes a nation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u36	Colleagues, I would like to draw the House's attention to the agenda, namely the discussion of Rule 2. We are, in fact, returning to the general theme of the debate that has already been drawn up. Senators De Cristofaro and Airola have asked to speak on this point, but I would ask you not to go beyond the limits of the agenda, which requires us to refer to Article 2 so that we can move forward with the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u39	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to say that what I am going to say remains in the proceedings and also in the hope that someone outside the Chamber will listen to us, given that in a few months' time this debate will fortunately move from the Parliamentary Assembly to the country, when we are going to have to hold a referendum and then there will be a committee for yes and one for no, and each of us will have the opportunity to explain the reasons why we are in favour or against this reform. However, I want to say something - it will allow me two minutes - about the debate that has opened, also because everything can be endured except that the cause and effect are confused, if I may say so. [[Applause from SenatorsBignami and Calderoli.]] I always listen to Senator Chiti very carefully. I have learned a lot from him, we have had several debates together this year and a half and we have also discussed these issues publicly. Therefore, I always listen to him and take notes when he speaks, because I recognize him great skill and of course great competence on these matters. However, I would like us not to forget one element. I am one of those who thinks that presenting 85 million amendments is a mistake - so much so that my Group has not done so - and I think that because I believe that this gives the Government and the parliamentary majority a further weapon and a further argument to completely change the sense of what has happened over the last two years. That's why I'm going back to the cause-effect issue. This constitutional reform was not born in the House of the Italian Parliament: it was born within a pact, which at the time was the pact of the Nazarene. I remember very well that a year and a half ago, when we began to talk about constitutional reform, it was impossible for a single Member, senator or Member, for a Group, for a party to enter into the substance of the issues because, precisely, it had been taken away from the democratic debate within this House and took place in a separate place. Then it happened that the Nazarene Pact broke - as has been known - and then it was imagined that, fortunately, the debate would return to a public place, that is, within the Parliamentary Assembly. But no: that was also an illusion because, having broken the Nazarene's pact, the discussion moved within the Democratic Party leadership. I, of course, have great respect for the Democratic Party, if only for the fact that I have great respect for those people - and there are millions - who voted for it and, therefore, of course, I am not surprised at the fact that, within a party, we can discuss constitutional reform and do so as they have done. However, Mr President, I do not believe that the idea that the matter is over at the time of the agreement in the Democratic Party is unacceptable. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and the Council and Bottici senators.]] It is also the case that the Democratic Party takes 10 or 15 million votes: the Italian citizens are 56 million, so for 10 million who vote for the Democratic Party, there are also 40 million who do not vote for it. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] I would therefore say, really without making much controversy and trying to speak outside and not simply to this House, that this debate is spoiled for a fundamental element: first with the Nazarene Pact and then with what has happened over the last few months, the substantive debate, President Casini, has been taken away from this House. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Bottici.]] For two years, my group and I have been trying to put some points of merit in this House and we have encountered enormous difficulties. And I say this to the country, because not only did we have to listen to propaganda - as I have said a thousand times over the last few days - so anyone who dared to say that, on a single point, it was called an owl or a professor, but even the idea that we got bogged down because of the 85 million amendments was passed. And that means completely overturning cause and effect. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the 85 million amendments no longer exist, they have been deleted and, therefore, it would have been entirely possible to have a substantive debate. On the other hand, you did not want the debate on the substance: it was not enough for you to remove the 85 million amendments but, through the so-called Cociancich amendment, with which we have debated over the last few hours, you have also prevented the debate on the substance on which you are now debating. And I really do say that for those who listen to us outside and, when we set up committees for no, we will try to explain it in every way possible. The issue has been spoiled originally and is why, precisely, everything has been there except the constituent spirit. Please, however, as many mistakes as the opposition has been able to make, let us not reverse the truth and reality. The opposition may have committed a lot of stupidity, but if there is a fundamental error in this debate, it is precisely the attitude that has been taken, so self-defense is not confused with the crime. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u41	You have the right to do so. After you, however, let us conclude this part of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u42	AIROLA (MS5). Mr President, perhaps my whole group will not agree, but I would like to reflect on the order of business in this House. Given that the 85 million amendments - as SEL's colleague said - are no longer a problem; I find that we have not had the opportunity to discuss the matter - and we are discussing the method - in the Commission; I find that the reform has been unconstitutionally framed in this House, where acts of extreme democratic violence against opposition were carried out yesterday, I propose that we vote as quickly as possible, close this chapter and give the people the floor when the time comes, because it is useless. I will cry out to you every day of my life how undemocratic you are and how much you have destroyed the country. But obviously that is not enough and it is not enough for you either, Mr President, that I thought he was an impartial person, and he is not. Let's close this shameful chapter, let's laugh at the country and take care of other measures that the PD had promised to deal with like that on civil unions. Let's take care of the prescription, the income of citizenship and more, because you have so much armored this measure and we have even seen a dissident like Chiti drop his pants permanently [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Simeoni),]] giving his alibi to say that they all agree. You trampled on us in every way. Yesterday I yelled - it is true - but I did it for frustration, as you did in 2005. Too bad the Berlusconians didn't treat you like that. Let us close this debate as quickly as possible and let us deal with something else, and let us not get out of it. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Mixed Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u43	I certainly do not agree with your assessment of my impartiality: I believe that I am still impartial and referee. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] I respond to the petition that was presented and reiterated by Senator Divine. The document exists, it is registered, it is signed. As I have already said and I repeat, Senator Cociancich has not denied his subscription, even if he is invited to give his opinion on it. Until the applicant's signature is not known, the document is signed by Senator Cociancich. Parliamentary practice now inveterate allows - and has been admitted by all - there are procedures for which, then, each Group organizes itself as it can and as it wishes. [[Comments of Senator Volpi]] If we want to change the practice, we'll adjust the subscription. We may also ask a notary to certify the signature before tabling an amendment, but let us regulate it, because the practice so far has been that. Also the proposability on computer support, which is very useful considering how much today allows the technology and that - as we have seen - accelerates the work, must be regulated. We must also regulate access to documents, since we do not have a rule in this regard, as do all administrations. This is, therefore, the situation. The document exists, is signed and has not been disowned. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). That's fake! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This is guaranteed by the Offices and the President. That was the answer I gave earlier. I have reiterated that we can regulate: let us predict - for example - that the notary can certify.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u46	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, our request was of a completely different nature. We have asked to have a copy of what you say exists and to be subsigned. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] That's it. I am also saying this because, repeatedly urged, Mr Cociancich would have thrown the whole thing apart by standing up in this House and saying that it is his amendment and that he has signed it. Since this act of the colleague, who would have caused any debate, any illusory remarks about it, there has not been, let there be any suspicion: if the colleague does not have the courage to say that that stuff is his, or that the signature is his, perhaps... [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u47	I can't have the suspect or assume it's not yours.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u48	CARDINALI (PD). But did you sign the 82 million amendments? DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, you owe it to the entire House and, therefore, also to the League Group which has formally requested you to have a copy of that document which you say exists and to be signed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Exactly: it exists is signed and is registered to the colleague. I have already given an answer to that. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, what are the problems of getting a copy of it? We can't figure it out. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is officialized with the printing of the files, which gives evidence of a form of certification of what exists in the original acts. I gave an answer. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). We don't like the answer!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u51	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I too have signed the request and, therefore, I also have the right not to be satisfied with your reply. Mr President, I demand respect for our request and the original production of a copy of the document signed by Senator Cociancich, and I would also ask you to know in this Chamber by Senator Cociancich whether the signature at the bottom of that document is yours. Otherwise, we are allowed to think that the Constitution is being based and modified based on fakes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] It's a political act, it can't be based on fakes! Senator Cociancich gets up and says the signature at the bottom of that document is his. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've already given my answer. If we then want to change parliamentary practice, we can certainly do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u54	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will only steal a fraction of a second to understand, since I am a senator like all my colleagues. I am not saying that for the sake of controversy, but I understand that on Amendment 1,203 there is the name and surname of my colleague, Mr Cociancich, but not his signature. I think I understand that and would like to ask you, Mr President, if I understood correctly. [[Protests from the PD Group]] Mr President, to understand, I am not saying whether it is right or wrong. There are first and last names, but not the signature of the colleague.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u55	How can you say that?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u56	[[Protests from LN-Aut and PD Groups.]] ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Say it then! I understand that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You may have understood what you want.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u59	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking briefly only to reply to Presidents Casini and Zanda that, as far as I am concerned, the esteem of the officials of the Senate and of Parliament is absolute and that is why I defended them from external interference. In fact, if an official of the Senate or Chamber went to Palazzo Chigi...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u60	That's enough. You've already said that. Thank you for your appreciation of the Senate officials. [[The Senators of the LN-Aut Group display signs bearing the inscription "Constitution demolished by forger mercenaries and Verdini". Protests from the PD Group. Ironic applause from Senator Barani]] I invite the quaestors to intervene to remove the cartels. Mr Olivero, Deputy Minister for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy. There's the Democrats!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u63	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I would simply like to offer legal advice to my colleagues in the League, promising that I will not ask for compensation for my work. (Exchange of apostrophes between Senators Centinario and Bellot). CUOMO (PD). Good Falanga! FALANGA (AL-A). Let us begin by establishing that the act by which a senator submits an amendment is an act of a purely private nature until it is approved, becomes law and therefore becomes a public act; however, in the state we are discussing a private act of Senator Cociancich. So we already have to rule out the intervention of investigators who would only be competent if it were a fake in public act. In any case, a request for access to acts which is legitimate has been made, because there is no doubt that the interest exists, but the general rule accompanying the procedure for access to acts provides for a period of 30 days because the body to which the documents are requested must give copies in accordance with the original and not already the original. This period shall be authorising and ordinary unless the administration to which the act is sought has provided otherwise in its rules of procedure... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, thank you, but this is the law for public administrations. FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I cannot come here in the morning to work and discuss the Constitution in order to always hear the usual things about a Senator of the Republic and that are unfounded in law. That's why I, as a lawyer, rebel. I cannot bear the continuing discussion of the legitimacy of an act of a Senator of the Republic who, until proven otherwise, has not disavowed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We understand, Senator Falanga.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u66	[[Protests from the PD Group]] CARDINALI (PD). Stop! You've already been filmed! MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I am ashamed. [[Ironic Comments from the PD Group]] CARDINALI (PD). It's about time! MORRA (M5S). I am ashamed to be a member of a Parliamentary Assembly that develops a debate on constitutional reforms in such a petty and vulgar way. [[Comments and ironic applause from the PD Group]] I am ashamed of applause which is repeated and repeated provocations because we do not want to intervene in medias res, in the heart of the problems. Yesterday someone invited my Group to take a course, perhaps accelerated, of respect because of course there are courses that may have been attended by those who invited us. That I know respect is to the extent that we begin to respect others, but very often this respect in these very classrooms is not there. Senator Grasso, I address you: we are celebrating a pantomime, a farce for the responsibility of someone who freed his dogs, I quote a well-known television conductor, because the responsibility is also of those who sit above and should inform but, on the contrary, distorts and communicates, sending messages that are those wanted by power. We are doing constitutional reforms without ever going into the matter. In fact, Mr President (and I would also like to address my President of the Commission, who said that we should speak for ourselves) we in the Commission have never had the opportunity to vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Yes, Mr President, because there has been an imposition on the part of the Government to which, to quote not our words but Senator Puppato, part of the Democratic Party has sold out for a plate of tripe. Once it was known that there was lentils, now we have evolved and there is the dish of tripe for which mediation, which was once considered a strategy aimed at finding a point of understanding on high objectives, has been increasingly a retrocession and perhaps an act of prostitution because "in accordance" everything can mean: the important thing is always to grant the partycracy to dictate law. Last night I was among people, Italian citizens as well as we who were interested in everything, in real and real problems, in how to make ends meet and how to think about children. We are, however, dealing here with inadmissibility, inadmissibility and Cociancich amendment. I think he is, but that is precisely why I wonder why he does not stand up to this day and takes the floor to make it clear that he is the author of this alleged amendment. ( [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Now... now I'd like to address... [[Protests from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u67	Conclude, Senator Morra.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u68	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to appeal to this House because of these decisions that we will have to take, thousands and thousands of citizens will suffer. If there is intellectual honesty (of which I doubt, let me tell you), and consequently also moral honesty, there is the possibility of being truly responsible for the matter, provided that Minister Boschi and those who suggest the answers, and stay outside, give us the opportunity to engage in a serious debate. And last of all, I turn to all those moralists on my right, but I'm also on my left... president. Thank you. MORRA (M5S). No, thank you, ma'am. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u69	And I say, please, if you say thank you. I invite you to refer to the subjects of the debate. Today we are talking about Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u70	MORRA (M5S). In fact, we are talking about Article 2, on which many have written, many have spoken, but nothing has been said in this House, because on the electivity or not of the senators, future senators and regional councillors, here we have always played well, we have always remained on the limit, without ever going into the substance. I appeal to everyone. There is the possibility to undertake, if you want, a new path, because the country needs seriousness and we here, at this moment, are demonstrating that we are everything but serious. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] What else do I have to say? I had to think, "Father, forgive them because they don't know what they're doing." [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests and comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u71	We're already at the crucifixion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u72	MORRA (M5S). Look, President, Italy is crucified and it is also your responsibility... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But I invite you to conclude. MORRA (M5S). ...because you have folded the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution to the use and consumption of the majority, and remember that. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u75	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, I rise very briefly to express my appreciation for my colleague from the 5 Star Movement who called for a golden rule, namely that we are listening to each other in this House, that we are not interrupting our colleague who is taking the floor or setting out his own positions. Personally, I've always stuck to this style. It is also a problem of the civilization of language and its purification. However, I must not say a controversial answer because it is not in my temperament but at least an answer to my colleague Morra, who alluded to a sort of soul sale. I am always convinced that politics is the search for possible mediation, the conciliatory composition of conflicting positions and, especially when it comes to the Constitution, the common effort for a shared landing place. Moreover, even when the text of our Constitution was drafted, a compromise was reached. All the scholars involved in the Constitution study and recall the nature of this compromise, which was promoted and made possible also with mediations on extreme issues. If I think of that great Calamandrei who alluded to an exchange between a failed revolution and a promised revolution, then comments not least as fundamental issues are at stake, I believe that the nature of the compromise we have reached is respectable, and, let's say, an acceptable landing place. Yesterday President Chiti explained the merit of this compromise, which is precisely what it is. I believe that, if necessary, when we discuss Article 2 of the fifth paragraph, I will ask you to take the floor again. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u78	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak in this debate, partly because my fellow Members have repeatedly urged us to do so. If I hesitated so far to speak, it was a form of respect for you first, because after you had spoken, it seemed to me that any kind of statement that could come from me could be interpreted as the need to confirm the President of the Senate's word, which I would never allow myself to do, because for me the President of the Senate's word is worth more than anything else. So please do not interpret this speech as a disrespect for you. I think, however, that it is appropriate for me to have a statement, given that this issue has been raised by many colleagues, and I hope that I can make a contribution of serenity. First of all, I would like to point out that I am assuming the total paternity of this amendment and I would like to point out that I have also tabled others on the same subject, exactly proposing the same content, which has been indicated in Amendment 1,203, which precisely seek to define the functions of the Senate, identifying their qualifying point in the relationship between territorial institutions, central State and Europe the functions of the Senate. I would like to point out that I have also had the pleasure of having the subscription of other Members, including some of the opposition who have expressed criticism today and who have legitimately voted against it, even though they have signed many amendments that I have tabled. Finally, I would like to point out that I have also tabled identical amendments at first reading, which have also been adopted and are in the process of being adopted. Therefore, I think that everything can be said except that I am not the author and has on several occasions, even during the debate in the Commission as well as in this House, assumed the total paternity of this proposal. [[Applause from the PD Group. Live comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] Arrigoni (LN-Aut). It's not yours! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Quiet, quiet. CARDINALI (PD). What do you want?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u81	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, I shall be brief. I note that Mr Morra is able to read the titles and to obtain explanations of a certain kind, but he should, for his intelligence and culture, be able to deepen the articles, from which he would draw different ideas from those he has just stated. I say more. From this speech there is evidence of a political culture very different from that which has taken shape and which has matured over the course of these decades in this political area to which we belong proudly, that of the Democratic Party. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] The reason is this: while because of you, as Mr Chiti, the Group of the League, rightly pointed out yesterday, the Group of the 5 Star Movement, has had a considerable loss of parliamentarians thanks to its verbal fundamentalism, its impossibility of being able to express a discrepancy, a diversity of political attitude [[Comments from the M5S Group]] and constructive criticism also within the Group itself. There is therefore an important cultural diversity when, unfortunately, we are faced with a situation where it is impossible to move clearly a number of people who have decided to vote in favour, each with its own reasons, each more or less convincedly, Senator Morra. From that conviction I have drawn some reasonings and colleagues, including those of the Democratic Party minority, others. However, we are here to mediate and carry forward reforms that we consider unavoidable. I am sorry for you that you do not find any other element to justify this morning than to set up some form of provocation by recovering here and there some distorted phrase. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u82	I would once again ask the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the amendments tabled to Article 2. This is a request I made at 9.35 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u83	Mr President, I am in favour of amendment 2.204, to which Senator Finocchiaro is first a signatory, and against all the other amendments tabled in Article 2. [[Senator Volpi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u84	Amendment 2.42c is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,43c, which deletes the Rule entirely. I would remind you that this amendment is identical to Amendments 2.1, 22000, 2700, 2800 and 2200. [[Senators Candiani and Calderoli indicate they want to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u87	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr. President, I was afraid you wouldn't see me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Calderoli, I saw you right after the time it took to lift your eyes from the paper I was reading. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). My thanks also go to the two Secretarian Senators and to the three-dimensional vision of the House. Mr President, this amendment concerns the repeal of the entire Article 2 of the measure, which refers to Article 57 of the Constitution. I believe that this amendment, on which I regret that the Minister has expressed the opposite view, should be voted on by the House, because Article 2, as the House of Deputies has hesitated, despite the corrections of the so-called Finocchiaro amendment, is manifestly unconstitutional in relation to the first part of the Constitution, it is contrary to Article 1, because sovereignty belongs to the people and not to regional advisers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Article 2 also contrasts with Article 3 of the Constitution and, in particular, Article 48, which I read to remind myself of: All citizens, men and women, who have reached the age of majority, are electors. In the Constitution, therefore, it does not say that regional councillors are voters. Article 51 helps us further as it reads: "All citizens of one or the other sex shall have access to public offices and elective offices under equal conditions, in accordance with the requirements laid down by law." [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] With this reform it is clear that no ordinary citizen can think that he can be elected senator of the Republic any more and therefore Article 51 should be repealed. What happens if Article 2 of the measure in question is deleted? That Article 57 of the Constitution relives? I remember what Article 57 of the Constitution says: The Senate of the Republic is elected on a regional basis, except for the seats assigned to the foreign constituency. The number of elective senators is three hundred and fifteen, six of whom are elected to the foreign constituency. I have a doubt here. In television shows and interviews I heard the news that Senator Marcucci set a trap to prevent the return of the elective Senate, advancing the proposal of the total abolition of the Senate, the lethal weapon. However, the amendment tabled by Senator Marcucci refers the number of senators to that indicated by the present Constitution, with the result that there would be three hundred and fifteen senators who would be elected. It seems to me that Senator Marcucci, who is very sympathetic, is very close to the President of the Council, as well as Secretary of the Democratic Party. And so I wonder: how can Senator Marcucci offer us, not the Senate of the 100, but the Senate of the 315? Not the Senate of Appointments, but the Senate of Elects? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Didn't you read your amendment? Is this an amendment that has been tabled, even in this case, without your knowledge? Mr President, I listened to Senator Cociancich's words and thank him halfway through, because the most important part (I signed it) did not say so. Maybe someone doesn't remember that there's only one scribble on the above amendment. In 1998 a photographic exhibition was held in the Chamber of Deputies for the 50th anniversary of the Constitution, where all the authentic amendments of the constituent Fathers were exhibited on the walls. By not granting access to documents, if someone does not intervene before they ask for it for us, we will find in fifty years' time that this Constitution was born on a forgery. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u90	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we have tabled Amendment 2,2000, which deletes Article 2. The reasons are obviously many and we have modestly illustrated them several times, with reference to the choices that were finally made on the Senate. I would like to recall one aspect very clearly, citing constitutionalists who are certainly of great importance, for their history, for their culture and for their commitment in this country, not only in defense of the Constitution, but also for the true interpretation of the Constitution. The choices that have been made for this Senate, as it is represented here after the passage to the Chamber, also in the hypothesis of the addition in conformity (I tell colleagues, in particular to Senator Chiti), in fact constitute a true violation of Article 1 of the Constitution. Among us we have discussed several times to decide whether, when there is an indirect election, this can be more or less actually considered a second-level election, an election to all intents and purposes. Mr President, for administrative bodies, this may also be the case: we have had the example of mountain communities and many other examples, alas this of the Provinces, but it is indirect elections for an administrative function. On the other hand, Mr President, in this Article 2 we are talking about a Senate of the Republic which maintains legislative functions. And then, when there is a legislative function, this can be exercised only and only by the representatives of the people, chosen by direct universal suffrage: there can be no doubt about this. That is why Article 1 of our Constitution is not a rhetorical reference, but it is very clear and precise. In these months - I look at President Finocchiaro - I have objected that there are other examples in other countries: France is always mentioned. But in the French Constitution there is even a recognition in Article 3, which indicates the method of the exercise of popular sovereignty and representation, indicating the direct form and the indirect form, it being understood that the French Senate is however elected by a audience a little wider than this (more than 150,000 administrators). Here is the root of our deep dissent. I quote Professor Pace's words, but there are others who have practiced this: when in the place of representation, in a parliamentary assembly like this (and yesterday we confirmed that Parliament is composed of the House and this Senate), in carrying out a legislative function decisions are taken that commit the whole community, decisions that are binding on that community at the very moment when they are adopted by political bodies with the functions of legislators, there can only be direct election. Moreover, in the case of this Senate, it also maintains the function of constitutional revision and what is higher? Oh God, judging from these days it would seem not very high, but what is higher than a function than that of dealing with the Constitution? And I also say that direct election is either there or there isn't. You can't here, with a technical artifice, allude to direct election. I say this explicitly and we will return when we arrive at Senator Finocchiaro's amendment and we will get even more into the technical aspects. The point is this: direct election cannot be alluded to. You can't smell the smell of election: there is or there isn't, especially in the Constitution and on this you can't write messes and counterpastices. And it is not, Senator Chiti, that because you have reached a point of mediation - and it was in your legitimate readiness the responsibility for a discussion within your party - this can change, at least as far as we are concerned, the general judgment, not only on this article 2 but also on the whole system. It is my opinion, Senator Chiti, that together, in many public events, we have often expressed, like you, the general system and the very delicate question which concerns, when it comes to the systems of democratic systems, balances and counterweights. I therefore hope, despite this compromise, which commits you but certainly cannot commit the judgment of others who have shared the battle with you until a few days ago on these issues, that they will then be able to find it in the committees for no to this constitutional reform. I hope so, partly because it would be a bit bad to go and tell the citizens, who have heard us say some things together, that in the end the good of party unity is nevertheless put in the foreground with respect to the good of the Constitution of our democratic system. The credibility of politics, President Chiti, also passes from this and I say it very calmly. In addition, this Article 2 raises a problem, which I believe has also just mentioned Senator Calderoli, with regard to the respect of other articles of the Constitution, which we have highlighted in the question referred to and which I cannot fail to mention. Here we always call for gender representation and then, since I would like to understand how we think about resolving this issue, I ask all of you and Senator Maturani, who presented a bill that we passed a few days ago, how can we reconcile respect for Article 51 and that bill with this mechanism of election among regional councillors? We have regions, like Basilicata, where there is no woman, while in others we have perhaps one or two. I would like to put this subject to the House. Otherwise, we cannot declare Article 51 and the importance of equal representation between the sexes and then build a mechanism, such as this, which is obviously destined to violate this fundamental article of our Constitution and even the subsequent deliberations. It is clear to everyone, Mr President, that we strongly urge the abolition of this Article 2. For the truth, we had also tabled amendments, which you did not admit, in order to arrive once and for all, with an act of gentle euthanasia, precisely to the suppression of the Senate. We do not believe that it can remain a simulacrum of an institution which will have no legitimacy on the part of the people, and which risks, Mr President, being destined - in two or three years' time - to certain death. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u93	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u94	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u97	MARTON (M5S). But about what? AIROLA (M5S). You're a privileged man! Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, my brief speech, based on recent developments, is on the order of business. I would also like to thank Senator Calderoli, Senator Cociancich, especially for the merit of his amendment. President Calderoli reported on a specific issue that concerns me. The President considered my amendment inadmissible. Sometimes, however, the amendments come forward to strike a blow and bear witness to some ideas that are believed to be well established in any case. I believe that this amendment which I have tabled is overtaken by the development of the parliamentary debate, because a good constitutional text is being produced which, personally, I very much appreciate. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] And I want, alas, to give sad news to President Calderoli. Unfortunately the exhibition on the amendments of this constitutional work will not be possible: but not for the Cociancich amendment, but for the 80 million amendments he has tabled. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u98	Senator Marcucci, I must ask you to specify whether you therefore withdraw your amendment or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u99	Mr Marcucci (PD). But you have declared it inadmissible, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have declared the two replacement amendments tabled in Article 1 inadmissible. I am now referring to Amendment 2,200, which is deleted from Article 2. Mr Marcucci (PD). I'm taking him back.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u102	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I accept Amendment No 2,200. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you accept the request... ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, Senator Marcucci must not express any consensus. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Mine was a slip, Senator Endrizzi. ENDRIZZI (M5S). In the same way, Senator Marcucci did not have to afford to replace her in the declaration of inadmissibility. However, let us get to the point: I have asked for amendment 2,200 to be taken into account, because it is valid from every point of view. We must ask ourselves what its impact will be: it basically brings us back to the text of the current Constitution, the most beautiful in Italy. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] It's true, I'm sorry, the most beautiful in the world! You see, Mr President, I have my slips too, and there's nothing wrong with talking about it. In practice, does this amendment lead to an increase in costs? No, it will reduce the costs for citizens, because the choice of senators, instead of being appointed - and we should say the same for Members of the House - reduces the cost of politics, which is not just the pay of parliamentarians or the cost of the apparatus, which would remain here, but above all is given by the bad choices that corrupt politicians then perpetuate. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella.]] If politicians are not chosen by the citizens, if they are chosen or indicated by other powers, they will not be of interest to the citizens, they will not pursue the common good, but the advantage of the usual few. Here we have to talk about huge figures, billions of euros, for example those paid for the cost of a motorway between Brescia and Milan or the cost we pay every year for the floods, landslides and hydrogeological disasters, which is much greater than we would spend to secure the territories. These are the costs of politics, which we discount. I would like to remind everyone that the nations such as the United States and Switzerland, which have instruments of direct democracy, in which the decision-making power of citizens is greater, including the possibility of choosing their representatives, are countries that are more economically well-off and some say even more civil from an institutional point of view. Well, this amendment will save us money, but perhaps it will also give more dignity to the institutions, because for example it will prevent a fallen senator from being elected mayor in a small town in Lombardy - the name of which perhaps begins with letter A - and that, thanks to this mechanism, he may find himself again senator, with parliamentary immunity. [[Applause from Senator Mangili.]] This amendment will also prevent the application of this mechanism to regional advisers, of whom 521 are under the attention of the judiciary, and fifteen regional Councils are also. Amendment 2,200 brings us closer to the possibility of overcoming the perfect bicameralism, which does not depend on the mode of election of senators, but on all other subjects. Instead, it was precisely here that we wanted to inflict a painful frustration on democracy. The reform, in fact, reduces, torments democracy and does not exceed bicameralism. I will say more: voting on amendment 2,200 will bring us closer to the possibility that the reform will really go into effect, because today it is not possible to attribute the legislative power, moreover in constitutional matters, that is, the most important matter, determining a mixture between powers, with the executive power in the head of the mayors and the legislative power, which should be the prerogative of people elected directly by the people and not appointed. That is why I am really wondering whether to conceive such an irritating, repulsive reform is not even proof that perhaps the Premier, I apologise - I force myself to use the right words - the President-in-Office of the Council does not want this reform first. Soundfully rejecting this article brings us closer to the ability to achieve its goals. Maybe that's what Senator Marcucci put in cognitive dissonance. I repeat: there is nothing wrong with talking about these mechanisms. Perhaps that is what we can and should do today. I realize what is underneath and that our words have also been used to ensure that, behind the scenes, substitute, supplementary pacts such as those of the Nazarene were made (however, pacts that are outside these classrooms and the debate that, alas, should have been in the Commission before), but the truth is such that we cannot fail to bear witness to it, which is why, in order to be consistent with our ideas and for consistency between your statements and the acts that we are going to produce, I ask you to vote for the deletion of Article 2. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u103	I address the Assembly's greetings to the teachers, students and students of the Technical Institute for Tourism (Livia Bottardi) in Rome who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u106	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have asked for the floor and I still hope it will be useful to debate it in this Parliament. You see, Mr President, I will vote in favour of these amendments, although I do not agree with them and I do so because it is the only way, the only hope, for those who like me, are an incurable dreamer, to arrive at a debate on the substance, to finally arrive at the affirmation of principles. I have to tell you what my discomfort is because yesterday, when Senator Chiti spoke, I was about to applaud him. Then I noticed that all those who behaved differently from what he did this year and a half applauded him. I told myself then that there was probably something that didn't convince me. Why? You, President, fifteen days ago, with Minister Boschi, at Palazzo Giustiniani, made a splendid speech, in which you recalled the constitutional principles that also pertain to the reform of constitutional laws and the Constitution itself. Even without quoting the Court's last ruling, you referred to the supreme values that cannot be exempted from constitutional reform either. As he did not say, I add what is written in the Court's judgment, namely that among the highest values there is the principle of electorate active by direct universal suffrage, which is derived from Article 1 of the Constitution for bodies having legislative function. I note that some of my colleagues are still not following, and most likely because the decision has already been taken. You see, I felt a physical annoyance when I heard a senator on the news last night that I admired very much and that I like how Senator Marcucci said "the majority holds," I shuddered, because when we discuss constitutional reform, talking about majority is something I don't agree with, but not today: I always felt that we had a position to compare individually from the point of view of the rules. It will come out a pastrocchio, even if the skill of Senator Finocchiaro has made it possible to find a place for the election by citizens, which precedes the designation of regional councillors, but which will hardly be conjugated with the fourth paragraph, which has remained the same. The fourth paragraph, in fact, together with the fifth, will ensure that the first candidates will not be designated, but sometimes they will be the second, third, fifth or tenth among those indicated by the voters, thus betraying the principle of direct election. Mr President, as you will have seen - I am also addressing you, Senator Chiti - I have tabled less than ten amendments and only one on Article 2 and I have done so deliberately, because having learned from your speech the foundations of a constitutional rule which was to concern a legislative chamber of this Parliament, I have presented, correcting and adapting it, the same amendment as last time, which I had withdrawn, hoping that the House would amend Article 2. But not only has Article 2 not been amended, for which I expected that a slice of the senators would be elected by the regional councillors, because the Senate will - and I am convinced that it should be - be the Senate of the territorial institutions, of the autonomy, but it cannot but be, for the principles of the Constitutional Court, also a House constituted by the majority of senators directly elected, carrying out that legislative function. I therefore retabled the same text with those amendments that I referred to. But how do you want to argue today? About what? Mr President, I hear that the majority holds, but how can we say that when it comes to constitutional matters? None of you have bothered to say that you are available for discussion, and anyone who poses a problem will be answered: "That's the way it is. It is the Senate of the Autonomous. I do not question it, but the scope of the debate that I propose is whether the social and political realities of a given territory should be represented in addition to the institutions, but I have not received an answer, or rather I am told, for example, that the German model has been copied; but it is not true, because in the German model of the Länder, it is the Presidents who appoint, the others do not matter, they have an obligation to conform. Then I am told to take into account that direct election is planned in France, but perhaps one forgets that Article 3 of the French Constitution provides for the alternative between direct or indirect election, and instead for our Constitution indirect election is prohibited for all legislative bodies. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] How am I supposed to try that merit and discussion approach that Senator Chiti referred to? I'd like to find a system. I had hoped that President Grasso, with what he had said at Palazzo Giustiniani, would come to a solution on the basis of the amendments tabled, taking into account the previous one in 1993. It wasn't possible. How am I supposed to argue? How am I supposed to compare myself, Senator Chiti? On this we cannot be content with half-measures, with solutions that are only mediation within the Democratic Party. We must try to have - as the Constitutional Charter wants - almost unanimity; this is what the Charter would like: if some of them stand out, they do nothing, but at least we will come to a hypothesis of discussion. If the debate, however, is over, it is closed, what can I do? The only way, in the hope that there will be a moment of resistance... AIROLA (M5S). What a moment! CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). ...and the ability to take account of reality, is to vote for the repeal of Article 2 and then rewrite it together, taking into account the values that we must respect. However, President Casini also pretends this morning that he does not understand what the matter is. Senator Calderoli was wrong to table those millions of amendments, but from then on, Mr President, we have not been able to discuss them in the Commission. We cannot discuss them here. Perhaps the acceptance of some of the amendments, which could give rise to a substantive debate, would have allowed us to vote against this deletion amendment and instead to vote in favour of a correction amendment to Article 2. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). As there are no more correction amendments, I am forced to vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u109	DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, I do this primarily for myself and, as someone else said before me, in future memory; certainly not for this House, which is deaf. I think that at the origin of the current proposal for constitutional reform, which provides for the abolition of the elective Senate, there is a profoundly wrong idea of democracy. On the basis of the conviction that the legislative power must be subordinate to the executive power, parliamentary mediation is considered a waste of time (and we see it), a useless awkwardness to the action of the government (and we see it). The people must be called to decide who will be the Prime Minister, to whom, on the very day of the elections, will be handed over the sceptre of command for the next five years. The only real function of Parliament will be to ratify the decisions taken by the Commission. It is, ladies and gentlemen, a programme that comes from afar. Elaborated, in its essential lines, by Licio Gelli and the Masonic Lodge P2, it has been pursued with tenacity in the last two decades, in the initial phase, through electoral reforms that, with the excuse of governability and efficiency, have actually heavily distorted and addressed the will of the citizens. Here then is the cancellation of the preferred vote and, above all, the award of exorbitant majority prizes and, subsequently, the direct abolition of elective assemblies. At first it was done with the Provinces, now it is passed to the Senate. That this way of proceeding is highly damaging should be clear to all people who look without preconceptions at what is happening in the country. The most widespread feeling in today's Italy is mistrust (I myself am distrusted): it is felt everywhere. It carries with it heavy consequences: every year thousands of young people, often the most prepared and willing, leave the country to live elsewhere (I recently spoke with new graduates who dream of leaving abroad). It is not only the difficulty of finding a job that pushes them, but the conviction that Italy will not, even in the future, be able to exploit their capacities. In fact, the perception is widespread that by us more than elsewhere the citizen is not the master of his destiny and that his will can be at any time coarted and overturned by those who hold the power. Given these premises, it is no wonder that participation in the vote is in constant decline. I remember that if 96.33 percent of those entitled had gone to the polls in the 1968 general elections, only 72% of Italians voted at the last political consultations in 2013. Disaffection has amplified further in recent months: I would like to recall in this regard the regional elections of Emilia Romagna, where in 2014 only 37% of those entitled went to vote. Mr President, who minimizes this data, remembering that they are basically similar to those of other European countries, makes a serious error of assessment: if it is unfortunately true that democracy lives everywhere a time of difficulty, what makes the Italian situation dramatic is the generalization of mistrust. According to a recent study, between 2010 and 2014, the percentage of our fellow citizens who expressed confidence in the President of the Republic - forgive me, but I would like to quote this data - has risen from 71 percent to 41 percent, in the judiciary (which you represented) from 50 to 33 percent, in the state in general from 30 to 15 percent. All the institutions of the country are largely unpopular: the parties, the unions, the Confindustria, the judiciary, the health care, the school and now, with the reforms, even the Arm of the Carabinieri begins to be looked at with suspicion. This situation should concern a responsible ruling class. No nation can progress when dominant feelings are those of mistrust, resentment and despair. It would be necessary to reverse the trend, involving the people and stimulating their participation. In this case, however, the opposite is being done: the opposite route has been chosen. There are closed spaces of democracy, using an anti-parliamentary rhetoric with which we hope to gather a little 'easy consensus; the conditions for an unheard-of concentration of power are created. With the new reforms, the President of the Council, as the head of the relative majority party, can, in fact, appoint the President of the Republic, 60% of the parliamentarians, the lay members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, two thirds of the constitutional judges; all having a consensus, be careful, that probably will not exceed 25% of those entitled. Whoever wins the next election, his triumph will be on the moral rubble of the country. Among the various sophisms with which one tries to demonstrate the reasonableness of this reform, the most absurd seems to me that of those who, among the colleagues of the Democratic Party, remember that the criticism of the perfect bicameralism was a traditional battlehorse of the twentieth century left (we have heard it these days). I went to read some writings on this subject by Mr Pietro Ingrao, who recently disappeared. In a conference at the Gramsci Institute in Rome in 1968 he stated: "We are ready to discuss even binding changes, which are valid to give present strength to the spirit of the Constitution (...) We have addressed the issue of bicameralism, making proposals that are worth overcoming the slowness, unnecessary duplication of work, the elements of disorganicity in the action of the two Chambers. More (...) we have proposed to ourselves and to other political forces the speech of a single legislative assembly. All this, however, while quoting Mr Ingrao's words again, had the aim of: "give unity and strength to the maximum body in which the popular will is expressed and allow more effective contact with the masses." All this, in function: a renewal of the state machine that increases the power of the working class and workers. All this depends on the political decentralisation and democratisation of the administrative apparatuses. All this in order to give a central role to the elective assemblies, as we believe that they can become bodies for the promotion of a real democracy. These were the proposals of the Italian left when it was still so. And no dialectical artifice can ever prove that the reforms of Pietro Ingrao, aimed at stimulating, I quote again his words: "A strengthening of popular sovereignty" are not the exact opposite of this reform of Matthew Renzi. Colleagues of the Democratic Party, this reform as well as damaging the country is an offense to the political tradition that you represent. Please stop.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u112	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, we in the Conservative and Reformist Group have also proposed an amendment to Article 2, which has been deleted, and many of the reasons I have already heard from other Members for returning to the system of the existing Constitution, which is certainly better than the assumption that it is possible after the second reading in the House and even with the amendment tabled by Senator Finocchiaro that should theoretically improve things. We have tabled this amendment because we did not agree from the outset with the idea of the non-electivity of the Senate, for the principle, which has been repeatedly mentioned today, of universal and direct suffrage guaranteed by Article 1, which we believe should be defended even beyond the possible approval of Article 2 as it has been reworded by the House and as it will be amended by amendment 2.204. That of maintaining universal and direct suffrage also with regard to the election of the Senate is an idea for which we must fight and which, in my opinion, must be brought, in the event of approval of the reform, also to the attention of the Constitutional Court because there is a clear violation of Article 1 of the Constitution. Let us say this because we have already experienced, in recent months and in recent years, what indirect election means. In fact, there are examples, even if in the laboratory, in the cloud, such as that of the Provinces or that of the Unions of municipalities. When you delegate to participate in other fora people who have been elected for other functions and other roles, there is automatically a denial of responsibility. The idea is that the politician may not take account of his actions because he goes to another body where, in fact, he was not sent by the electoral citizen but it is as if he were a person who, by delegation, deals with a second body, a second activity for which he was not directly indicated by the voters. This will certainly lead to a crisis of popular participation. Some of my colleagues have previously referred to striking cases such as Emilia-Romagna, but in recent years abstentionism, the collapse of participation in the vote is a constant and is unfortunately a fact acquired, a phenomenon that is not even in the last polls a reversal of trend. Our second objection is not overcome by those who want to defend the idea that we can have a second chamber not elected, first because there are important cases, such as the United States, Switzerland and many federal countries of South America, in which the idea of a second chamber was maintained, second because also the objection that has been made by someone, namely that few European countries have a system of two elected chambers, five out of twenty-eight, is overcome by the fact that the remaining twenty-three, which would be more or less similar to the Italian case that is expected with the reform, in fourteen the monocameral system is based on a proportional electoral law that is far from the absurd and harmful consequences that will come from the application of the Italicum. The only country with a single-camera system and the election of the House with the majority system is Hungary. These days, comparing yourself or trying to imitate Orban's models, I think it's something very inconvenient, from which we're very far away. That is why we are calling for the deleterious amendment to be voted on. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u115	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the second paragraph of Article 1 of the Constitution of the Italian Republic states: Sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and limits of the Constitution. This inscription, referred to in the second part of the second paragraph, which has been forgotten in the many references made to Article 1 in this House, actually has an extraordinary significance. Some colleagues will remember a magnificent writing by Zagrebelsky a few years ago entitled "The Crucifix!" and democracy, in which he explained how in the case of the trial to Jesus the fact that he had left the choice to the sovereignty of the people, out of an exercise in accordance with the limits, led to the most tragic and wrong decision of history: that of choosing between Barabbas and Christ with respect to the condemnation that, as you will remember, the people of Jerusalem were called to express, because the authority that had in itself the rule washed their hands from the responsibility to take that decision. Already in Article 1, and again in Article 2, a choice is reiterated, the result of a work lasting more than a year, according to which the Senate of the Republic represents the territorial institutions. A choice that we can no longer call into question because it is covered by a double deliberation of the Chambers, including some Members who today support the deletion amendment that we are discussing. But what does "represent territorial institutions" mean? It means that there are persons in it who are delegated by the territorial institutions to represent the interests of those institutions. There is no need to be a jurist who has long considered the concept of representation in order to know that this necessarily carries with him the fact that these representatives of the territorial institutions are mayors and regional advisers. Then, as my fellow Members have said this morning and as will be explained in the explanation of vote on amendment 2.204 signed by Senators Finocchiaro, Schifani, Zeller, Zanda and D'Adda, we can of course proceed to a direct involvement of voters during the regional consultation on the identification of those regional advisers who will be senators. But this does not detract from the need for the members of the Senate of the Republic to be representatives of the territorial institutions, i.e. mayors and regional councillors. Moreover, I would like to mention a statement by Professor Dogliani, among the many who have spoken during the round of hearings that we have held. Actually, Professor Dogliani said: "Political representation does not always require electivity." Nor can we be surprised, because we are surrounded by examples of European constitutional systems in which the composition of the Senate is carried out taking into account the close relationship, the expression of identity that takes place through the designation of those who go to compose the Senate of the Republic coming from territorial institutions. Nor is it worth noting that, while retaining the Senate's powers in constitutional reform and therefore in constitutional matters, this would require that its members be directly elected by the citizens without being regional councillors and mayors, because we are full of examples, from France to Germany to many other Western systems, in which the members of these chambers retain constitutional competences: so for the French Senate, for the Bundesrat and for many other examples. But there is one issue that is much more pressing, I dare say; or rather, it is much more stringent than the arguments used in this House yesterday and also in the last glimpse of this debate. If we were to approve the deleterious amendment to Article 2, what is the system we would have? A system in which both the House and the Senate are directly elected by direct universal suffrage, but with one difference: not only the limitation of the powers of the Senate, also in legislative matters; but two Chambers elected directly would see the Chamber holder of the trust relationship and the Senate deprived of the trust relationship. If the adoption of Senator Cociancich's amendment was foreclosure of the vote on a number of amendments, the adoption of the deletion amendment would in fact be preclusive of the whole reform. That is why I believe that there can be no doubt that these amendments should be rejected. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u117	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u118	MINEO (PD). Mr President, I shall vote against the deleterious amendment by my Group for two simple reasons. The first is that yesterday I listened well to Senator Chiti when he said that the compromise, reached outside this House and the Commission but reached in the Senate, was unsatisfactory but there was no alternative, since the President had declared inadmissible the amendments to the second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution, referred to in Article 2 of the text under consideration. Well, this is an opportunity to rewrite the entire article. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bottici]] The second question - I want to say it with affection to President Finocchiaro - is that, in reality, in the case of Jesus, the imperial authority and the Sanhedrin had no doubt: they had decided, without any doubt, to put Jesus to death. The act of Pontius Pilate is the act of those who accept the choice of his master [[Applause from Senator Morra]] But she washes her hands of it, thinking that she can get rid of her conscience. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S and LN-Aut. Numerous Senators of the PD Group send lively comments to Senator Mineo's address.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u119	Let us resume the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u121	In dissension? BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). It's a destiny. Although I am the first signatory to Amendment 2,43c, I rise in dissent in order to be able to speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bignami, I give you the floor only if you intervene in dissent. But if it is first signatory to the amendment.... BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Yes, I speak in dissent. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He must be in dissension from his group. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Yeah, I'm in dissension. Can I talk? Can you give me a minute? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, I take note that you want to intervene in dissent and I give you the floor. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I should like to say something about this. Since many people have asked me why I don't speak, it is right that I reason for my silence by speaking. I do not speak because there is nothing more to say and there is no force in words; there is no predisposition to change ideas. You have no more doubts and doubts remain only to me: the doubts if here and now there is still democracy; the doubts if here the fate of the country is really at everyone's heart. For this reason, I would ask you to support Amendment 2,43c, which deletes Article 2, giving this House its real role. Before voting on this amendment, I would like everyone to raise their eyes not to that Lord who quotes improperly, but simply to the fresco, which contains four nouns that should always be on our head and not at the feet of Renzi. These four nouns are the fortress (given by the resistance), the right (here the rules have not been respected), the concord (yesterday was a great example) and the justice (which I hope is done now). Zagrebelsky's quote on that book actually meant simply that the majority is not always the right one. I remember the one who voted for Barabbas was corrupted, just to remind the story. Centrally I would like to put another noun: hope. I hope you don't kill her now.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u122	[[Applause from the Mixed-MovX and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u124	Would you like to intervene in dissent? VOLPI (LN-Aut). It's the only way I can talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You must speak in dissent. I note that you want to speak in dissent and I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u125	[[Comments from the PD Group.]] VOLPI (LN-Aut). Young people, I speak to say something. Since you keep screaming... Young men are senators. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, if you would please turn off your microphone. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, sure. VOLPI (LN-Aut). My dissenting speech is to support Senator Mineo, who has received a violent attack from his party comrades, and for saying one simple thing. I shall abstain from taking part in this vote. President Chiti who will probably be in the game to get a position as Minister, perhaps in regional affairs. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Simeoni]] To my colleague Puppato, who does not know what our motives are, I say only one thing: hurry because, as a well-known colleague said, the posts to the government are now only standing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senators Bignami and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u126	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.33c, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators, identical to amendments 2.1, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, 2,2000, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, 2,700, tabled by Senators Campanella and Bocchino, 2,800, presented by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, and 2,200, presented by Senator Marcucci, subsequently withdrawn by the proposer and made by Senator Endrizzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Mr ASTORRE (PD). Senator Bignami voted in favour! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll take note of that. Amendments 2,801 to 2,901 are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.813c, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] I shall cancel the vote. If anyone wants to intervene, let them know in time. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u129	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, allow me, in this case you cannot allow yourself to say that, because you have closed and opened another vote. Even if he wanted to, he could not have received any suggestions from the Secretaries of the Chamber. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In fact the suggestions come even without need... CRIME (M5S). Don't make fun of us in these cases. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I cancelled the vote. Who needs to talk? CRIMI (M5S). Now let's see if there's any colleagues who want to talk. As you can see, there's more than one who wants to talk, not just one.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u132	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to address an invitation to you... AIROLA (M5S). Excuse me, I asked for the floor first on the order of business! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are voting. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Please, Senator Calderoli. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am sorry, but you have a record of the fact that you have been prepared by the Offices, so you can move on from page 2, where the deleted amendments are, to page 813. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Page 298. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). That's right. But if we don't even know what page we're on and it doesn't show us, we'll never be able to follow it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u135	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I will say just one word, so the words in this House seem to be useless. At least let's hope they make sense to the outsiders. AIROLA (M5S). Now, when everyone finishes, it's the order of business! I've been asking for an hour! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] CIOFFI (M5S). If you haven't heard from him, Senator Airola has asked for the floor on the order of business, so maybe after you give it to him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In order to maintain the order of business, we must prevent Senator Airola from intervening every minute on the order of business. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Senator Airola, your colleague Cioffi is speaking. AIROLA (M5S). I had a one-minute surgery! It's my right to do another! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u136	Senator Airola, I'm calling you back to order. Please note that there is a reference to the order given.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u137	Please, Senator Cioffi, you can talk. AIROLA (M5S). No way, Mr. President! CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I will continue with the explanation of vote, but I humbly allow you to note that if any senator in this House asks for the floor on the order of business, it seems to me, until proven otherwise, that there is a Rules of Procedure and that it is appropriate to give the floor. With great calmness, because a little calmness is needed in this House, even if there would be a desire to use something that is not calm; but, as long as we are in here, maybe we remain calm, perhaps the citizens outside... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Your explanation of vote, for or against, please. CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, if you take the floor, I might be pissed off. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u138	I call you to order, Senator Cioffi, and I invite you to use expressions suitable for your person.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u139	CIOFFI (M5S). To my person yes, maybe to the other people maybe not. Since I have used this term, you may be outraged by the words, but here we should be outraged by what is happening. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The explanation of vote. CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, you cannot tell me what I have to say. Can I say what the hell I think in this House or not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, you can only speak to make an explanation of vote on the amendment that we are voting on, because this is the agenda. I'm sorry, that's all you can talk about. MARTON (M5S). Marcucci talked about what he wanted! CIOFFI (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. It seems to me that we were talking about the deletion of the fifth paragraph, but, whether we leave it or suppress it, it doesn't basically change much. The profound concept on which we should be thinking - and that is why we shall be voting in favour of this amendment - is that what is happening on Article 2 represents, as has already been said in this House, a compromise hypothesis. It has also been said that the compromise that we tend to reach in this House on Article 2 and on the whole text is a "respectable" compromise (this word has been used). A comparison has also been made with the compromise reached at the constituent assembly. And so, since the word "compromise" is not bad, it is an important word, which I personally find beautiful, but the compromise is either 90% or not, and if it is not a compromise it is a low level agreement, a sad, low level, to which the citizens unfortunately have been accustomed for thirty years of this policy. Therefore, Mr President, I think that this compromise is not worthy of this House or of those who have written the Constitution. And if we compare ourselves to the constituent Fathers, we may not have understood who we are and who they were and therefore, it would be good to reflect and think about how to vote. [[Senator Endrizzi points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u140	The explanation of vote for the 5 Star Movement Group has already been made.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u141	[[Senator Marton's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u144	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would just like to point out to you the inconsistency of the decisions that are being taken in this House. You said yesterday that it was not possible to accept that sub-amendment concerning the problem that those who were elected on behalf of linguistic minorities did not have an end to their duration and therefore considered those amendments inadmissible. Well, I would like to point out to you that we are voting on a deleterious amendment to the fifth paragraph, which provides for the duration, so you considered it acceptable today an amendment which, if it were adopted, would provide for an endless duration for all those who become senators. These are the incongruities that we continue to emphasize with respect to the decisions you are taking and I repeat what I said to you - I say this to you today with calmness - that yesterday's decision was profoundly wrong and was taken only to avoid a secret vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u145	Senator Romani, you know that the deleted amendments of individual paragraphs are always admissible. That motivation was given... MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). It was given only to avoid a secret vow! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, in order to give a complete meaning to a rule that was to enter the Constitution, therefore the speech is absolutely different and there is no incongruity in the judgment on the admissibility of the amendments. [[Senator Malan's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u148	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, first of all, it must be stressed that the fact that we have prevented the amendment of this Article 2 has been a sudden choice of which, in my opinion, we will pay the consequences as a Senate. In fact, I repeat that the second reading was necessary to review also the decisions that this Senate had already taken. Having said that, as some Members have reminded us of the debate on the subject, I did not have the opportunity to speak just now, but I would like to point out that this Article 2 depresses the voters of the exercise of their sovereignty, by having the senators elected by territorial institutions which are not, as in Germany, the Lander governments, but rather the advisers, thus giving the parties a further opportunity to indicate their nominations on the basis of internal negotiations. With the indication given by the Democratic Party minority and the compromise reached, a kind of circumvolution has been achieved, a particular complication that will make it even more difficult for citizens to understand how senators are elected. All this in a situation in which all the institutions and politics had to contribute to strengthening the link between citizens and institutions. This legislature, with the advent of the 5 Star Movement, marked in a clear and precise way the distance between traditional politics and citizens. Instead, we wanted to reiterate, force, impose on the citizens the policy as it has always been. According to all this, after all this, we are going to create a Senate that is constantly evolving, according to the fifth paragraph of the paragraph "Art." Question No 57, by Article 2, which my amendment seeks to delete. In fact, it weakens even more that institution which, in my opinion, would be absolutely appropriate at this point to eliminate. In fact, with this reform, we give life to an institution with with withered powers, which must have as its precise sign that it does not affect national policy, except for peripheral parts. Added to this is the fact that it is agitated by passing actors; there will be mayors who will have to take time from the administration of their city to come here to make decisions on marginal issues compared to politics; or regional advisers who will have to avoid the discussion in their assemblies to come here; in essence it will be like a post-worker. Moreover, this post-work will be in continuous change following the Assemblies of the Regions. We basically create an ineffective and ineffective institution which is harmful. The citizens have asked us for a policy that shares their needs, and we respond by giving more power to the parties that have always had it, with the results we have seen and creating an institution that will have as its peculiarity and novelty the granting of parliamentary immunity to regional advisers who in recent times, unfortunately, have not shone out of transparency and activity. That is why we Senators of the Other Europe component with Tsipras from the Mixed Group, together with our colleagues from the Left Ecology and Freedom, will vote for this amendment with conviction. [[Applause from Senators Bocchino and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u151	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, it seems to me that this morning my tones have been very quiet and reasonable. [[Ironic comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u152	Let's just say they've been quiet, Senator Airola.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u153	[[Applause from the PD Group]] AIROLA (M5S). I asked to make a statement on the order of business and I waited, even though the Rules of Procedure provided for me to intervene immediately, patiently that I should be given the floor. I waited for the vote to end. The explanations of vote have been distributed. Senator Paolo Romani spoke on the order of business and I spoke last. In the meantime, you mentioned slips earlier. I would ask you to live up to the debate that is taking place in this House on constitutional reforms that do not provide for slippage. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please stick to the order of business and not my lapsus. AIROLA (M5S). But this concerns the order of business, because it concerns the conduct of this House on its part. The second point is that I continue to see, even today, a PD platoon deployed on the bench of the Presidency, which is unacceptable for a democratic Republic, where oppositions must be represented. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have already said that those who represent the function of Secretaries represent it regardless of their membership. AIROLA (M5S). It matters what you do, not what you say. Let us quickly change this Bureau by adding the right positions to represent everyone; and you no longer allow yourself to have slips, because unfortunately in your position you cannot afford them. [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u154	Look that a slip is involuntary and unwanted, otherwise it wouldn't be a slip.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u156	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u157	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, this amendment is clearly a monster, as was a monster that we spoke about at yesterday's sitting, but it was legitimate in political terms and it was not your responsibility to intervene at this level, with what is called political censorship. The amendments were both admissible and the difference, the discrepancy detected by Senator Paolo Romani is clearly related to the mode of voting: the possibility of secret voting led in fact to modify the evaluations. On the substance, Amendment 2,813c is a deleterious amendment to the fifth paragraph and, as such, what it clearly determines is a distortion. What President Finocchiaro said a moment ago, that deleting Article 2 is tantamount to abolishing the reform, but it qualifies the reform according to its main objective, i.e. the expropriation of the right to vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would therefore like to say that not only on the admissibility of the amendments, but on the whole reform we should be commissioners of the Constitutional Court, because we are really going towards the grievance. Therefore, although I agree with the impossibility of voting on an amendment such as this one, I would ask that my abstention vote be recorded, because it will have the value at least of opening our eyes to some crucial issues. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u158	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.813c, tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.5 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u161	CRIMI (M5S). First of all, I would like to ask Senator Augello to sign this amendment, as well as to announce the Group's vote in favour. In particular, I would urge everyone to read this amendment, because perhaps it is proceeding quickly (the amendment is in fact on page 298 of the dossier and you probably did not understand the meaning of it. It provides that: The term of office of the senators, designated by the citizens of the Region by proportional method, is five years. It is therefore established that senators are designated by the citizens of the Region and that the Senate has a duration and lasts 5 years. It is also said that: The senators shall be members of the Regional Council by law and shall supplement the number of senators. We therefore welcome the far-sightedness of Mr Augello, who tabled the amendment, which means that the 100 senators become members of the Regional Council by law and supplement the plenum. This would have the effect desired by the reform, namely that, while overcoming the perfect bicameralism, which has now been approved by Article 1 - then we will see what will happen with the examination of the next articles - the amendment under consideration would have the effect of having a Senate elected by the citizens, whose members integrate the regional councils, increasing the number of them: so the senators would be brought within the Regional Councils and the voice of the Regional Councils in the Senate would be taken, as you want. Let's be clear: I'm not saying we like it. I am saying that, in the abomination of this reform that you are carrying out, perhaps this could be the solution to make it all less harmful: a Senate of independent self-government, elected by the citizens, which integrates the plenum of regional councils and makes it spokesperson. This could be the clear, precise solution, which does not leave open scenarios in the future, such as those envisaged by Senator Finocchiaro's amendment. The Finocchiaro amendment, gentlemen, is a mockery; I would like it to be clear to everyone. It is a mockery because it provides for regional councillors to elect senators in accordance - and compliance is very vague - with a popular will which, however, is not known how it is expressed. It will have to be expressed according to the procedures indicated by a national law, provided for in the sixth paragraph, which will be approved by the two rooms. Colleagues, they are telling you - I am addressing all those who have accepted this compromise - that after this reform, if you approve it (here is blackmail; it is not a compromise) they will give you a national law approved by the two Houses. Too bad maybe there won't be even time, because maybe the House is dissolved immediately, because maybe the Senate is dissolved immediately after the referendum. And yet this law will be: in ten, twenty years? I wonder when! It will depend on the future House, the future Senate, on future alliances, on how you decide to align or not, you will be given a law that might contain who knows what. There might be something you don't want, so maybe you'll have to vote against the same law that you want to get the citizens to vote. Do you understand that you are in the form of blackmail? Today you have to vote for this crap and tomorrow they'll give you a good law. Too bad that law will be another piece of crap, and you won't be able to flunk it because you won't have either one and you'll find crap on crap. That's the deal you made. I'd like you to realize that. At least something certain could be asked, in accordance with the popular will which must be expressed by universal suffrage and which cannot be violated: at least words of this kind could be added. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And no, because the Finocchiaro amendment, the fruit of the agreement, cannot be subjugated. No additional proposals can be made - for goodness' sake - even after the adoption of the Finocchiaro amendment, Article 2 has also ended, because there will certainly be a great many amendments to be missed (then I will ask the President to list all the foreclosures due to that approval, as he did yesterday). You have to open your eyes and get clear what's going to happen, and that's nothing. Senator Finocchiaro's amendment is a fake amendment, no more than a fake, a scam. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] For this reason, the amendment tabled by Mr Augello, therefore by a majority colleague - obviously in the majority there is someone a little enlightened who proposes something sensible - can come to satisfy that request, which was the President of the Council, to have a Senate representative of the Regions, but avoiding that this Senate becomes a post-work for regional advisors. May it be the other way around. That in the Regional Councils there are additions from some senators who will bring the Senate's contribution to the Regions and the contribution of the Regions to the Senate. Maybe the real Senate of the Autonomouss project can be implemented there. I must confess that when I read this amendment, and I shared it with my colleagues, I thought that perhaps, compared to the many craps we have read, this could be the real solution to develop the needs expressed by the majority and oppositions. I would therefore ask you to consider this before you vote. It is in fact an amendment that can really satisfy the demand - which was also of the same Government - for a Senate of the self-government, simply guaranteeing its electivity by the citizens. The members of this Senate of Autonomies, then, would become part of the law, increasing (and this is a positive thing) the proportional share, within the Regional Councils, which today are largely majority. The effect you will achieve, on the other hand, will be an election of senators within the majority regional councils, with an increasingly smaller selection. It's like when you concentrate: the smaller the numbers, the more the differential of a majority system is heavy. Remember this: the higher the numbers, the more the majority on the differential is bearable; the lower the numbers, the more unbearable, intolerable the majority. By reducing the electorate to regional councillors, you are reducing, increasingly, the possibility of truly expressing the desire of the citizens and the people to bring their representatives into the institutions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u164	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I fully agree with the remarks made by Senator Crimi, except for one, in which he invited the famous members of the agreement within the Democratic Party to open their eyes. I think, Mr Crimes, that they were very open when they made the deal. In fact, we saw it, because yesterday, in the intervention of Senator Chiti - which we all appreciated from the dialectical point of view - we had to find, however, that his appeal not to pollute the waters of the debate with procedural reasons was a perfect appeal from superior stabat lupus: the waters, before, drink them and after the lambs can afford to drink them and they to consider them polluted. What's behind this deal we don't know, but they do. I do not want Senator Chiti - whom I appreciate and esteem for the many years of presence in this Parliament - but if I have to insert myself in the strand of the mostly biblical quotations (although, a few years ago, we heard a typical Renaissance of the "why don't you speak") that have been used this morning, among other things, almost all from exponents of parties that have always had little to do with the Bible [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , I say that the biblical exemplification of that agreement is in Esau's quote: you have agreed for a plate of lentils, which, as Senator Crimes said, you will probably find also empty, to allow - and I remain in the area and in the Region of Senator Chiti - the little Tuscan brother to climb the staircase towards the sky of Jacob that, however, is built with the steps of the dissenters, in perfect Soviet style. I really believe that there is a great political misunderstanding behind the flagship initiative and transmitted with messages with articles and public statements from a part of the Democratic Party aimed at bringing back the matrix of the member of the Senate to popular sovereignty. In fact, as we have also heard from the intervention of Senator Finocchiaro and as emerges from the contents of his amendment, one thing that amendment returns to the historical Senate, which, of course and rightly, in step with the times, the Constituent had eliminated: the oligarchic character. The Senate of Oligarchy falls as such and therefore escapes direct designation by the people and leads back to the election by organs already elected through an absolutely second degree selection, despite the smoky concept of conformity. It is no longer, however, the millennial oligarchy of the aristocracy or of the plutocracy, but that of the apparatuses; and this is part of your completely natural concept of closing the decision-making and legislative organs to the concept of party apparatus. Your conclusion does not grin with respect to your ideological matrix and to a path that today sees you again and anxiously in power in the country, in the will to want to practice it according to your schemes. What is more surprising, however, is that on these schemes parties and political components are adapted that for years have not shared them and that for their ideology should be the opposite, that is, to give preference to popular sovereignty in the sphere of democratic dialectic so let out again from the door the theme of the apparatuses and their prevalence over the popular will, which instead you are reintroducing. Amendment 2.6 goes in this direction and it is not for nothing a component of the majority that is certainly not part of the apparatus (at least from an ideological point of view) but it may be that from a contingent point of view it can be. The text under consideration is therefore a serious alternative, also from a different point of view. At a time when the text disaligns the duration of the senators from that of the regional councils, it restores vigor and value to the function of the Senate: it is a sort of election of half a time, as in other important democracies it is used to do. It is therefore a sort of prevalence of the control activity that the Senate will have to exercise over the Regions, as it is detached from the subordination to the Regional Councils, which instead will certainly have to elect the senators, because so it remains in the bill even after the amendment of Senator Finocchiaro, even if recalling the conformity of the electorate. The important part from the ideological point of view is precisely in overturning the perspective of what the Senate is about the Regions: in your proposal the Senate is a propagion of the Regions that is not known on the basis of which resolution of conflict of interest will have to examine the regional laws and even those of the State even if you have excluded the regional ones from its competences. As a result, the Senate is elected by the Regional Councils, but as an emanation of them, it may act as a counter-altar of the House or State. According to Amendment 2.6, however, the Senate responds much more to the characteristics that you have also indicated in the premise of the debate: it outlines a Senate that controls regional activities and is so much a supervisory body that it escapes the rule of dependence from the electoral point of view. For these reasons, therefore, we will vote in favour of amendment 2.6, hoping that the less left-wing members - let us call them that - of this majority who proposed it want to join in this vote and really want to reopen a debate which, however, according to what we have heard from Senator Chiti's resigned but elegant exposition, seems closed to any change. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u167	AUGELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I should have spoken earlier and I apologized because I was outside the Chamber. I would like to explain the meaning of this amendment and the reasons why I am going to withdraw it, even though it has been signed by others and will therefore be voted on equally. VOICE FROM THE LN-Aut GROUP. He's too smart to vote for him! AUGELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). In fact, I wrote it and not you! The problem is as follows: Amendment 2.6 was written and prepared for the Commission's work at a particularly difficult time. I would remind you, not to you President, but to myself and to the House, that at first reading the New Right Centre had already tabled amendments which were intended to ensure a form of election of the Senate; amendments which we retabled at second reading and which are very close to the solution that was found in the majority. However, at a given time in the Commission's work, to understand us when they stopped, it seemed that that kind of compromise was not possible, especially within the Democratic Party, that it did not find any kind of consensus outside the majority. As a result, as is normal in the Commission, we got to work and I tabled this amendment which had some characteristics: first of all it responded to the need not to modify the parts already voted jointly by Chamber and Senate on Article 2; secondly it maintained the principle that the senators were an expression of the Regions; but it also sought to grasp a requirement which at that time seemed urgent, namely that the election should take place directly and at the same time as the election of the House. The most obvious defect of this amendment is that in the end there are a hundred extra salaries while the value, as we begin to understand from the debate, is that it could greatly widen the basis of consensus without leading to an endless reopening of the discussion on elements of the reform already passed both to the House and to the Senate. Nevertheless, despite this amendment being on the table, the other form of electiveity, which we ourselves proposed, was the one which then formed the basis of the compromise within the majority, and therefore this amendment, from this point of view, is surpassed by the agreements that have been reached. I am not entirely certain that, if we had stayed in the Commission, a reasoning on this solution would not have come the way either, but with the "ifs" and the "buts" we do not make history and less than ever the chronicle of the Senate and constitutional reforms. This is why I withdraw Amendment 2.6. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u170	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I had already asked before I signed Senator Augello's amendment 2.6. I just wanted to point out that it is not a hundred more salaries but two hundred fewer than the current situation and that is something. If we had to limit all the reform to salaries, we would have been able to cut wages by half and we would have achieved even greater results, but that is not what you wanted. We have asked you to halve the salary of all Members of Parliament or to reduce and halve Members and have rejected the proposal, so do not come and tell us these stories. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Having said that, I appreciate the correctness of the colleague who has told and explained the story of the amendment since its origin unlike my colleague Cociancich, but also of my colleague Marcucci who did not even know that he had signed an amendment repealing the law of his Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u172	Do you need to make an explanation of vote or talk about other Senator Candiani? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is obvious that when an amendment is withdrawn, a new subject is included. The Group of the North-League supports and makes its own amendment 2.6 on which we reserve the right to make an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u173	Before continuing the debate, I inform the Assembly that the Senators of the M5S, Misto-SEL, Forza Italia and Lega Nord Groups subscribe to amendment 2.6, previously tabled by Senator Augello.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u174	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u176	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I declare the AL-A Group's vote against this amendment. I cannot fail to make two considerations, namely to highlight the contradictions in which Senator D'Ali and another, for the most miserable truth, in which the 5 Star Movement occurred. Senator D'Alì has expressed a clear contradiction of constitutional rank, because popular sovereignty must be clearly related to functions. The Senate, as it has been designed, which no longer has the power to legislate, therefore the legislative function, does not give confidence to the Government, is a Senate with functions that have nothing more to do with popular sovereignty; on the contrary, it would be disgusting, constitutionally incorrect, to foresee an election by citizens for a function that is no longer what is to be expressed through popular sovereignty. This is the central point of the contradiction of Senator D'Alì. With regard to the 5 Star Movement, the contradiction is more miserable because it is true, as Senator Crimes says, that we save two hundred, but contrasts with the line of the economy of spending and the costs of politics, always declared and expressed in the squares, everywhere, by the 5 Star Movement. The report must not do so between what it has proposed and what it is going to vote on, but between what it is going to vote on and what is not going to happen in terms of expenditure. It is clear that this amendment substantially reverses the way in which the Senate is elected, providing that one hundred senators are elected by the people who integrate the others. It is expected that the way senators are elected will be reversed and therefore costs more than one hundred more senators' salaries to form the new Senate. So, if the 5 Star Movement always goes in the direction of spending less on politics and institutions, I don't understand why on this occasion it thinks it wants to spend more paying another hundred salaries that according to the prepared text are not spared. This is a miserable contradiction. On the other hand, it is miserable, already in itself, the reasoning that is usually made when trying to avoid the costs of politics and institutions. They probably want to degrade both politics and institutions. We are not of this opinion. The AL-A Group continues to vote against this amendment. Although we will not like the reform at all, we are convinced that our country needs a monocameralism that speeds up the production system of standards. For these reasons we are voting against this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u177	We greet some members of the order of the German magistrates who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u180	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, before this amendment, we have exactly what the litmus test of this whole affair is saying. Yesterday I listened, as always with great attention and respect, to the intervention of Senator Chiti, who gave a reconstruction of the events and a possible perspective in order to qualify the continuation of our work, very important and delicate. With the respect I have always had towards Senator Chiti, the answer comes here, today, from this amendment, because there has been an extraordinary obstructionism, never put on the field before, by the majority of the Democratic Party [[Applause from Senators Bottici and Campanella]] , with the strict concern of not establishing any type of comparison, and preventing the Commission from carrying out its work. To a certain extent, in this concern - I say this with all my esteem and affection - Senator Chiti, you were also there: you were also an element that did not allow the exercise of action in the Commission, so much so that it did not work. And there were no amendments there, or anything else, so even before, biased, until there were no numbers; the numbers came later, when the Commission had already been exonerated. We are not talking about details, but about substance, because when we discuss the reform of the Constitution, the method is also absolute substance. And then we go to the agreement, where, therefore, also forces of majority, not only the minority of the Democratic Party but also members of the majority propose solutions that are obviously compromise on the substance and would have been considered by us as an overall insufficiency. It is a compromise from having to reason and evaluate rigorously, because we are faced with the reform of the Constitution, which keeps a clean element, however, that of election in a federal, regional, senatorial framework. Nor is it worth an argument that has been raised: Senator Augello said that the negative argument is the increase in costs: when there is a will, the problem can be solved with a thousand technicalities; and I do not list them so as not to waste time. Let us not forget: if there is will and there is a problem, it will be resolved immediately and totally; indeed more; more can be done than the proposal that the majority has put in place. In a clean system, which is not within our vision of reform but which is within that culture, we can offer a clean and uninterpretable solution by majorities following the approval that, with those numbers and in the famous arranged combination, can change the Constitution, even the first part, the famous founding elements. Then, of the two: in his beautiful intervention, Senator Chiti said that this is the most advanced point of compromise, that we consider positive - of course and legitimately - giving us possible tools, which we offer to compare and modify. No, no! It wasn't that. You have legitimately considered that this was as far as possible, under the sword of Damocles that the PD majority and the President-in-Office of the Council have always said that the numbers are there. Even in these days and hours there have been migrations and rescue positions to the majority. I repeat: the numbers are there and if you manage to have the unity of the Democratic Party, even better. However, it is not a more advanced level that is offered to comparison. This - it is obvious - is the litmusol map. A majority senator has tabled an amendment and must withdraw it even if the reasoning that has taken place has received the consent not only of a part of the majority, but of the entire Assembly that has so far expressed itself. I don't know if you know. We could continue with frustration on this ground, even those who, like myself and all members of the Left Ecology and Freedom component, never resort to outrage and accusations. It must be understood that one cannot use one language for the press and another for the House, with different behaviors. If there is the possibility of a comparison, it can be opened even in dimensioned times. If that is the level of internal and extra-parliamentary mediation, then the end of the transmissions: do not be surprised and do not have the candor of wonder, because you really do something wrong. We are absolutely not prepared to do this. If, on the other hand, there is the will, not to question the plant (this is quite obvious), but to intervene with a targeted amending activity, I remember that although we have already produced damage, we are now at the threshold of the full-bodied part of the measure. I note that there have been, not only in the minority, different and individual judgments on the agreement, which have all their value. Above all, there have been the judgments of those who signed this extra-parliamentary agreement and I think I have read, but I can make a mistake, that in continuing this agreement is so confused about other fundamental and delicate aspects of the constitutional transition that the word has not yet been put to an end. Do we want to continue in this way, with mutual accusations, screams and shouts, or continue to keep listening and the possibility of improvement high? As for the final vote, everyone will make an overall assessment, but surely we can still give ourselves the possibility of an improvement. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u181	I warn that Senators Candiani, Gasparri, Bonfrisco and Chiti have asked for the floor. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] Let it be clear that because explanations of vote have been made, in order to give some concreteness to them and move to the vote I would continue as far as possible before the suspension. I know that there is already a Commission meeting... MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). There's a calendar! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is a sitting suspension and is already foreseen in the timetable. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). It happens all the time! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you think that we can vote at a time other than explanations of vote, it is not a problem for me. I thought they were more producing... (Senator Calderoli shows the Rules of Procedure.) There's no point in showing me the Rules of Procedure, Senator Calderoli, I know him. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). There is the Commission, Mr President, there is the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I cleared the Commission at 1.30 p.m. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, but there would be a written pause in the calendar, not when you decide!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u184	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am sorry, but you refer to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that declarations or speeches are not allowed at the time of the vote, except to report irregularities in the votes themselves. The explanations of vote are one thing, while the voting phase is another, to the point that even, on the final votes, in some cases we made the first explanations of vote in the evening and the last the morning of the following day, then proceed to the vote. One Commission is already under way, at 1.30 p.m. there are others and at 2 p.m. there is another. What does it cost to suspend now and resume at 3 p.m.? In this way explanations of vote can be made legitimately, without compressing the time of the senators; then we will proceed to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't compress any time. Senator Candiani has ten minutes to make his explanation of vote; it is 1:20 p.m. and 1:30 p.m. we will suspend the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u185	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u187	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, don't worry, it will be enough to clarify, so much we have understood what the conduct of this Senate is like. We were not surprised that your amendment was withdrawn, Senator Augello, and not because it was more or less intelligent, but because we first witnessed the missus domains, Senator Pizzetti who arrived at his Group and gave arrangements, after having received them in turn. However, the amendment will remain alive, because we have signed it as a whole and other groups have also signed it, because it has its meaning. I agree with what has already been said by others: it is not the best and the best, we would all have wanted an elected Senate, representative of the autonomy and chosen by the citizens. However, this amendment would allow and will allow, if it is adopted... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, you have decided to do so and you have decided to have my explanation of vote on the amendment put forward in this context. But I beg you to listen to me: or there is seriousness... Mr. President, please. Otherwise, colleagues will eat and then take explanations of vote. You can't make a statement with PD senators coming out and going to eat. Be patient, or we'll make an explanation of vote in the cafeteria! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u188	Please, Senator Candiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u189	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). This amendment can still give a sense of constitutional reform that is not simply to bend the Constitution to the wishes of the Government, without the citizen having any more capacity to intervene in the legislative process. If one wanted, on the question of costs, those hundred future senators, representatives of the local and elected self-governments of the citizens, could easily go down compared to the number of regional councillors, who with an ordinary law can safely be reduced in number. So there's no excuse for that either. And, if you want to insist on a cost issue, always with an ordinary law you can say that politics is a free thing. Everything is fine, but we cannot take away the right of expression from citizens. And to Senator Chiti - whom I have so much respect and respect - I would like to say: please do not sell us what you have agreed to as the direct election of the senators by the citizens. That will be an agreement that you had to bend within the Nazarene, but it has nothing to do with the declarations of principle that you made here a year and a few months ago. These declarations of principle were based on the assumption that sovereignty is popular and that citizens must choose [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti),]] and not the fact that people's indications should perhaps be taken into account, as we shall see later. If a year ago Senator Esposito was walking around here showing a tag on the lapel of the happy turkey jacket, here is now a Senate of capons: this is the end you have made. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u190	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u192	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. For all the considerations on the substance of the amendment, but also for the meaning that it can have in restoring a climate, restoring confidence and determining a point of fall not only within a party but also among the forces, because it solves a problem that should have been foreign to the subject of the reform and could also speed up the work, I ask you to suspend the work of the House for a slightly longer period, a half hour more, to give time to political forces to confront each other.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u193	Senator Endrizzi, you know that Senator Calderoli has invoked the Calendar that has been approved. Eventually, at the recovery we can evaluate your request, with everyone's agreement. You can repeat it again at the shooting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u194	I ask you to give us a way of checking whether there is a real will for dialogue. If all the Leaders make a point of assent at this time, we give ourselves a half hour more, otherwise it is the last bit about dialogue. I would hate to see that, and I call for that not to happen.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u195	The group leaders aren't here. [[Senator Barani's comments.]] Are you here? So you all agree? Mr Barani (AL-A). No. ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Neither do I, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. A group leader already disagrees. Senator Barani disagrees and so is Senator Zeller. And you know that unfortunately we must respect the timetable. I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at 3 p.m. according to the timetable. (The sitting was suspended at 1.28 p.m. and resumed at 3.04 p.m.) The session is resumed. I would remind you that we have moved on to the vote on Amendment 2.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u196	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u198	CHITI (PD). Mr President, I have asked to speak even though I did not intend to do so, because the speeches I have heard this morning by Senators Crimi, D'Alì and Cervellini finally offer the opportunity for a debate on the subject. I think that what I will say will not convince either Senator Crimi or Senator D'Alì, as they did not convince me with their speech, but they are at least evaluations that allow us to discuss the matter. We must therefore ask ourselves what we want from this reform. We want to overcome the bicameralism of equality, by ensuring that it is only the Chamber of Deputies that gives the government the confidence, and we want the Senate to have some functions and competences: there will be an opportunity to return. We want to maintain some constitutional balance and the fact that two judges of the Constitutional Court are elected autonomously by the Senate of the Republic, it is not something that gives a prerogative or a badge to the Senate or to future senators, but it means that, of the five constitutional judges that will be elected by Parliament, two will be the expression of minorities. On the other hand, if the Senate elected the constitutional judges by voting together in the Chamber of Deputies, in the light of the existing electoral laws, this would not have been certain, indeed it would have been the opposite. We also want - at least I have always wanted this - to have an important role for citizens. Yesterday, Senator Tremonti made some comments on this subject, which I agree with. It is true what Senator Finocchiaro says - we have had so many discussions over the past few months - that in Europe there are some elected parliaments in a different way: one of them, in particular, is the Bundesrat, but this happens through an automatism. It is true, however, that, as Senator Tremonti said, at this moment we live in another phase, both in Italy and in Europe, in which there is a problem of relationship between citizens and institutions, between the participation of citizens in the choices and their representatives in the institutions, which is not worth weakening, precisely because it has entered into our daily life - and also enters into the life of the institutions - the new computer age. It follows that, for example, if forums are organized in a region to discuss some issues, there are also 30,000, 40,000 or 50,000 citizens participating in them. The question to be asked is therefore what to do, once the second paragraph of the paragraph "Art. Article 57 (2) cannot be amended, if we really do not want to start again, since we can support the need to rewrite the second paragraph, but certainly the path of reform would have another outcome and I do not agree with that. If, therefore, action is taken on the fifth paragraph of that paragraph of Article 2, is there a better, more advanced and more concrete solution than that which has been identified? I would like to read the text of the Constitution, as would result from the adoption of amendment 2.204 (there will be an opportunity to talk about it later): The term of office of the senators coincides with the term of office of the bodies of the territorial institutions from which they were elected, in accordance with the choices made by the electorate for the candidates advisers when renewing the same bodies. So, Mr Crimi and Mr d'Ali, how do the electoral citizens express the choices for the candidate advisors when the regional councils are renewed? By beating hands, making smoke signals, or with a ballot card on which they put the vote? It seems to me that they do it with a ballot box on which they write the vote. That is the problem, and I would also like to tell my colleagues sincerely that last time they fought a battle, which they are convinced of this, that even if there were 1% uncertainty - and there is no - if we do not want to make political controversy but instead want to achieve an objective, the interest should be to say: more, it is written so clearly that it is absolutely certain that it is the electoral citizens who will elect. That's right. I repeat: this is the case, because once the citizens have decided with their vote what will the Regional Councils be able to do when they meet? What does the Parliament of the Republic do when it meets? Will the Regional Councils question the vote expressed by the citizens or will they have to take note of it? Imagine a group, a party, an adviser who in the Regional Council raises his hand and says: he was elected Crimes but let's put Chiti (if we were in the same party). CASTALDI (M5S). Yeah, that's what they're gonna do. CHITI (PD). No way. CASTALDI (M5S). Yeah, the PD ones mostly. CHITI (PD). There is no such thing, and if you think so, then I really think we are talking about different issues; we think we are in a completely different state. This amendment has defined who decides, that is, the citizens with their vote. When? When the Regional Councils are renewed. Is everything solved (I address you, Senator Cervellini)? No, of course it's not all solved. On this, then, we should confront ourselves if we want to improve and we must do so now, indeed tomorrow because it will happen tomorrow, because if we acquire this approach, what will have to be defined are the times of national electoral law. What prevents the Senate and the House from making a serious and severe commitment; to say that national electoral law is being done in this legislature, and that it is we who have to do it? We have to compete. Can't it be done? What's stopping it? Our way of working? There is certainly the problem of making it quickly because the Regions will refer to it; there is to be addressed what can happen in the first application in 2018: these are the open problems. We want to see them in the light of this decision or we want to say: the decision is not there, we do not know who elects, we do not know how and we will not see? I think it has become clear that those who elect are citizens; that in the Senate there will be regional councillors and mayors (elected), and I think we should define the electoral law and its first application also because, Senator Crimi, you will not be able to claim that an electoral law should be written in the Constitution, because the day we wrote an electoral law in the Constitution we would need to be taken somewhere else. The electoral laws in the Constitution are not written. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The question of the President of the Republic certainly remains and it will have to be discussed and resolved. This is my position, because I do not speak on behalf of others, but of myself: there are no constitutional currents, let alone: there are convergences or not of individuals on settings. I think that this issue must be resolved by extending the audience and deciding on a closure point, because otherwise there is an expropriation from majorities or a right of veto to excess that will never end on the President of the Republic. We'll see when we get to the point. I would like to make a final comment on the Senator Augello's amendment, which - I said this to my colleague when he came to talk about it politely - I agree with the point, but I do not think that this amendment is improving, for one consideration only, Mr President: because we cannot establish by national law how many advisers the regions have. It is part of the statutory autonomy of each Region. The Region of Tuscany in 2010 had 55 members. Today it has 41; tomorrow it could return to 46 (I mentioned Tuscany that is not a Region with special statute). If a Region considers that in order to allow the elected councillors to play well the role of senators it is right to do what Senator Augello suggested and that I - as my assessment - share, that is to have a greater number of advisors in order to allow those who have been appointed senators to perform the function of senator and counselor (when possible and when they can do so), well the Region will be able to do so. It is covered by statutory autonomy, but not simply for economic reasons: by law. We cannot tell the regions this or that is the correct number. We gave him statutory autonomy. I am amazed at you, colleagues of the Lega Nord and Autonomy Group, because with you, despite the disagreements we have had so many times, we have always found a point of convergence, when I was President of the Region and more recently. We found moments of convergence when we discussed the role of the Regions and if there is a concern that, once again, brings us closer, it is precisely this: I do not want, personally, to go back on the role of the Regions. It would be a very serious mistake, not for tomorrow's Senate, but for tomorrow's Italy. Look at Catalonia, look at Scotland yesterday, Belgium. Territorial vocations in Europe are not surpassed. Either they are organised within a democracy of Europe and states, or we risk breaking up. I will conclude by addressing a different issue (to date I have kept to the merits). To Senator Volpi, I would like to say this: when you make such insinuations, it does not offend me, but itself. Yes, he offends himself. He doesn't know me or us. We can have so many limitations and flaws. I am at the end not at the beginning of my political commitment and I do not have to receive: I have had too much. This is my path and compared to this, despite the thousand mistakes made, he will not find a person who can claim to have been able to say: do this in exchange for something else; whether it was assignments or money [[Applause from the PD groups and Senator Bencini.]] It's useless for you to get rid of it; look inside yourself, now I'll tell you why. Personally I have always felt that if you approach a person to propose an exchange it means that, at least, you think you receive a positive response, even if you are not sure. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Despite all the differences I can have with you, I would never think that you could do anything or take a position for convenience. I would not do that because I do not have this concept and this practice of politics I do not project it over others. Think about yourself. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u201	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, it was obvious that the amendment drawn up by Senator Augello and which all the oppositions have done precisely (and I add to the list of previous subscriptions) would have brought back on the table what has been the real debate around these reforms for months because we can sum up in these two opposing positions, in the end, the whole sense of the political battle waged by both majorities and the opposition around the reform of the Senate. What do I want to represent with force today? The real point that divides, divides and distinguishes the correct approach to this reform process. On many things different agreements could be found, and the Commission's own seat was, as has already been mentioned, but this is a work alas that we have not been able to do and certainly not because of an opposition which in any case, after the supplementary hearings that you had authorized, Mr President, listening to Presidents of the Regions and other constitutionalists who had expressed themselves on this reform, we had to and could find a summary on many issues. Of course, it was difficult to find it on the view so opposed between the parties: among those who wanted to try to keep it in the power of the citizens' decision and who instead, perhaps doing an interesting job of reworking the functions - as President Finocchiaro reminded us yesterday - began from the assumption that citizens had nothing to do with this branch of Parliament. We are, in fact, talking, however, even when the reform is completed, about a branch of Parliament. We consider this to be the true vulnus of this great debate, which has been going on for a year. It has been since 8 August last year, with the vote last year, that we are witnessing our total opposition, without whether or not, to the fact that Italian citizens are being deprived of the possibility of choosing this branch of Parliament by their vote. Whatever the powers, functions, the role (whether equal or non-equal) of this branch of Parliament, in any case it was necessary to keep the electoral citizen and the elected citizen the choice; to choose fully, to really choose. It is different, however, the mediation that has been composed in that constitutional reform that we will all remember (the political chroniclers and historians who will punctually go to verify the texts, as well as the declarations, within this process) as the constitutional reform of the Democratic Party, not the Italians. Mr President, you, with your attitude and your holding in this House, unfortunately, have been able to only fuel the distortion that has occurred in this House. Once the mediation or the hypothesis of agreement between the minority and the majority of the Democratic Party has been completed, the reform process, as you can see, is being rapidly emptied of any possible mediation and solution of sharing between all the forces of Parliament. No one wanted to stop this reform process, but on it many wanted to bring their own vision, which is that of their own voters. This has failed, Mr President, and you are adding to that number of important political subjects that have abdicated on this very thing. I remember that right-winger: if he hadn't voted that way on August 8 last year, we would probably write different pages of this reform process today. It has never been seen to make any reform indoors and within the framework of a party, with another party succumbing, in a Lion pact that tramples on values, ideas and proposals that have always characterized the center-right, its voters, its militants, its leaders, the system of political souls that has always composed this deployment. This, in various ways, concerns those who formally and substantially support this majority and its Government, and also those who perhaps do not support it, but who forgot to represent their voters on 8 August last year. In the end, what had to happen, except what happened? The whole approach and culture of the Democratic Party and its articulations in the territory prevailed. It is not up to me to remember (I leave it to those who have a few years more than me and who can remember better than me) how, in the division of the first Republic, the territories were the prerogative of the Italian Communist Party and then of the Democratic Party. Today, in fact, we are at the end of a path that will remove from this House any representation other than that, reducing it to a minimal testimony; a path, a design that has ancient roots, President Grasso, will have been completed. You were very much concerned with something else, so you may not remember the struggles of the Communist Party from the 1970s onwards to increase the powers of those territories to a great extent, to influence the activities of the Government and that of Parliament. Today that design is carried out, the design of monocameralism that Togliatti liked and the power of the territories that liked the Communist Party in those years when he could never take part in the Government, but from those territories he participated and strongly influenced every Italian political choice. President Chiti, the fetish of this Senate is also delivered through that amendment to which you are rightly attached, because I find your history and your political path within that text (and on this we divide ourselves, President Chiti) which writes to the apparatuses and parties the choice of everything, even that of a citizen who in a surrogate way can vote a regional councillor. However, as you have just told us, there is another of the plunderings of the right to vote of the Italians, because you can choose to vote a regional councillor and perhaps some Region (maybe yours, President Chiti, the one who has always hated the votes of preference and has always voted with the blocked lists) will decide to increase the number of its advisors, in order to be able to participate dignifiedly those regional advisors in the activity of the Senate. In any case, it is clear that through none of its methods citizens will be able to really participate in that voting process. Instead, in reviewing that equal bicameralism, this could be an opportunity to shorten the distance between a policy lived by Italians as ever further away. Since we are going to revise its functions even by assigning to the Senate very important functions from the point of view of the lives of citizens and their balance within the civil rights and life of the country, precisely for this reason this was the opportunity to allow those citizens to express themselves. We had made some proposals and we continue to make them; we continue to put to the attention of this House the fact that, even within that meritorious text of Senator Augello, something else had to be done. Even within a possible mediation, even in this case something more in favor of the Italians you could do it. Instead, the logic of the apparatus wins. We are certain of a fact, Mr Chiti: the way we live it, the logic of Togliatti lives and struggles with us. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u202	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u204	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the amendment originally proposed by Mr Augello and then made by Senator Crimi and other senators for a reason which I place in the premise of these statements. Amendment 2.6 is a logical response and application which is proposed as a solution to a completely illogical plant. And this is perhaps the real problem of all the debate that we have seen taken away from the parliamentary places, i.e. outside the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and within the Democratic Party on the subject of the electivity of the senators, because it remains the basic problem that every solution must be commensurate with the logic of the installation. In fact, the Senate of Self-Government, as proposed, is not a Bundesrat. It is not a real Chamber of Autonomies, where to dialogue, to interloquire, to deal with the Government are called regional executives, so much so that the role of these executives survives in the State-Regions Conference, which maintains its prerogatives intact. In fact, this blessed Senate of Self-Government is not an area of legislative definition, because it remains obscure what are its most valuable and peculiar competences. Then, in the absence of these clarifications, pretend that the heart of the matter is to establish, more or less broadly, the electivity of the senators is a mirror for the lark. Because in reality the underlying problem remains the fact that, as it is, this Senate that we will have in the future does not say and is no more than a fantastic supercazzola. This is the heart of the problem: it is a Senate of absolute inconsistency. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] And to sit back and wonder that it must be focused in elective terms, however with more or less cumbersome mechanisms, brings us back to what was said in the premise. We are voting in favour of this amendment because it is a good patch, but in essence it does not solve the underlying problem: it is not the question of the electivity of the senators that helps to clarify how the Senate will be useful to the Republic, and how it may be, in the constitutional dialectic, a reference element for government action and legislative activity; it does not solve the problem of a place that is a real place of negotiation between the State and the Regions, indeed enables, with a fake legislative activity, more centralism and more statism on the part of the State; it is the mortification of every federalist instance of the country. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Volpi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u205	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u206	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u207	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, listening to Senator Augello's words, at first, when he had not yet clarified the conclusion of his speech, I mentioned my desire to sign his amendment. My Group has announced that it will vote in favour, but I will not vote in favour of it, although, as Senator Mario Mauro said now, it is a little closer to a better principle. On the one hand, I am disappointed that the proposer, while claiming a better quality than the text we are discussing and the other amendments, withdrew it, and this has regretted me a little. But I also believe that this opportunity serves to begin to make the subject of direct election or not known to the outside world (as far as it can go outside this debate that is a bit cumbersome, long and exhausting). Days ago the best-selling newspaper, or one of the best-selling newspapers in Italy, the evening Corriere, published a survey according to which 73 percent of Italians are in favour of the direct election of the senators of this resized Senate. The answer doesn't surprise us, because it's obvious that if you ask the citizen, do you prefer a person to be elected by you or nominated by others?It shouldn't be 73 percent, it should be 93 percent. The debate that has developed over the past few weeks has also been at the heart of the debate within the Democratic Party, in my view not only irrational but intolerable, which has led for a few days the leaders of the currents of a party, however important, but not the only one in this Parliament, to find agreements and agreements. So the amendment by Senator Augello, which I will not vote for for the reasons I have just said, because it is insufficient and because the same proposer has somehow abandoned it to his own destiny in the House, where everything is collected, was still better than what is emerging, because - I also say this to all the commentators who follow this debate, looking more for the color than the substance - we are going to face a mega scam. In recent days, on the evening Corriere, speaking of the amendment of the first-signed majority of Senator Finocchiaro, Professor Ainis, who I do not believe is culturally far from the left, wrote that this amendment is also formally unacceptable, because "in every legislative text" - I quote Ainis - "the principles must then be translated into paragraphs, and the paragraphs are located within the articles. If a paragraph is out of place, if an article is badly written then the principle remains unformed. So here we are giving an unsuited response to that aspiration, hope and need of direct election. Ainis says that this amendment is converted into a deformed mask. This is likely to happen with the amendment on the electivity of the senators, the Finocchiaro amendment, a single 48-word period, with only two commas. Before reciting it, you have to take a deep breath. Please ensure that the Italian Constitution is written in Italian. The Augello amendment was written in Italian. I'm sure you can recognize that. The Finocchiaro amendment, to which we will come later, is not written in Italian. I say to those who follow this debate outside these classrooms that direct election will not be there, because it refers to an ordinary law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Gasparri. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I shall conclude, Mr President, but we are discussing the Constitution here. Let us talk. Otherwise, I will make a speech at the end of the sitting on the activities of other colleagues in this House. There's a twist. The ordinary law will not be done because there is a transitional rule that allows regional councils to designate them as members of this Senate. Since there is no constraint or need, the transitional rule will for a long time leave the Regional Councils to elect these semisenators. We will not approve any ordinary law but, if it were to be done, we should do it on the basis, not of the Augello amendment, which in the end disappointed me but anyway was written in Italian, but on the basis of the Finocchiaro amendment, which is written in an illegible and incomprehensible way, set in a confused way betraying the popular will. There is no clarity here; but we will talk about it later. It was even read that ordinary law would predict you write the name Mario Rossi and then the voter will have two boxes: if you bar one if you want Mario Rossi councilor, two if you want also senator. As if voters were scholars of constitutional law, such as Ainis or Sartori, or other journalists who follow us, able to distinguish. It is a vulgar scam, and that is why I do not take part in the vote on this amendment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u208	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u209	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u210	AUGELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, for the reasons I said earlier, it seems clear to me that the New Right Centre will vote against this amendment. But as the host and not having personality disorders, I will not participate in the vote. That is why I disagree. It is a modest dissent, but I take the opportunity to make a few brief remarks about the debate that has taken place. My fellow Members also had kind words to say to me. Defining myself enlightened seems too much to me. Even, Senator Gasparri recognizes me to write in Italian: it's news. The debate took place quite eloquently but, speaking of the content, I would just like to make a few points. It is clear that, when I said that the only strong objection that can be made to this reasoning is that there are a hundred extra salaries, I did not say it because I shared it, but because it could emerge in the debate. It is enough to write a transitional rule in which it is said that this is the case in the first application, and then, exactly as we do in the Finocchiaro amendment, the regions, in the process of renewing the regional councils and replacing the elected ones, will eliminate salaries. The second point is addressed to my colleague, Mr Chiti, whom I esteem and not today. He knows that I too come from a long regional experience. So I would never, Mr Chiti, allow myself to increase the plenum of a region by authority. In fact, in the amendment I wrote "integrate" and does not implement "integrate" where this integration frees the Region or expands the plenum or reduces it, transposing national law. One more point. In the debate it was not said that one of the aims of this amendment was, when it could have a topicality and there was a debate going on, also to avoid that the need for an architecture that is credible, that at this moment I cannot look outside of the historical moment that we are going through, is also perhaps to limit, as far as possible, that one of the most wretched legislators in the history of the Italian Regions, from 1972 to today, becomes a source of legitimacy for the formation of the new Senate. This amendment would have solved this problem as well. And above all it would solve the problem of a Senate that will necessarily have its own hybrid moment in which, assuming that the electoral law is made and that everything works, we will have a part of the Senate elected by the Regional Councils and a part of the Senate elected by the people, once the Regions start voting. These were the reasons for some concreteness of this amending proposal. These reasons are now out of date and that is why I have withdrawn it. I am sorry that I disappointed someone, but I withdrew it because, when the majority reaches an agreement, it is clear that we must all find ourselves on that agreement. All in all, the fact that some Members have signed it helps us at least to measure the field that could have been explored, because many of the convergences that have been made on some of the contents of this amendment I can say that they are genuine, because they were recorded a few days before the agreement was reached within the majority, at least among some members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. So in me remains the Cartesian doubt that perhaps it would have been possible, beating this road, to have a much larger majority around a topic as important as representation (then there are also others, such as functions, and so on). On the subject of representation, perhaps it would have been possible to sew a wider majority. My poor powers as a member of the Commission, however, could not reach the point of conditioning a negotiation at that level. And then it is a matter of location: there are those who prefer national direction and those who prefer the Senate Chamber. I can't argue about that. So I confirm that that moment and these reasons have moved that amending activity. I confirm that it is topical and I take note of it, even in the light of the debate, but I will not take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u211	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator Augello, which was subsequently withdrawn by the proposer and made by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Subsequent amendments are inadmissible. Let us move on to amendment 2,2503.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u212	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u214	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, I am sorry to interrupt, but I am only speaking for a clarification, because I have seen that there are agencies coming out on this issue. In the last speech I made, citing Amendment 2,204 and its signatories, I gave the name D'Anna rather than D'Adda. I have already apologized to my colleague, but I would like to make it quite specific. The name is printed, so there is no doubt about it: it was a slip. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It happens.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u215	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u217	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, it appeared to me that amendment 2,2502 was not acceptable until after the word 'thus', while the first part lived. The same applies to the subsequent amendment 2,2502a.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u218	The problem is this: the eligible part is perfectly in line with amendment 2,2503. We will therefore vote on Amendment 2,2503 and Amendments 2,502 and 2,502a for the eligible parties. As the signatories are the same, we only vote for one amendment for all the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u219	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u221	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, using the explanation of vote on this amendment, which is a demonstration of this, I would also like to answer the questions raised by Mr Chiti, because they deserve specific answers, which show how the debate could have been done, if someone had not wanted to force his hand. First of all, this is an amendment, one that is possible. It is not the best, from my point of view, but it is a possible amendment that shows that there is an alternative: it is to indicate that compliance with the decisions taken by the people, by the citizens, on the election of the Senate does not happen directly linking it to the regional councillors, as in the Finocchiaro amendment, but it happens on a compelling indication of voters according to specific regional electoral law or autonomous province in accordance with the fundamental principles established by the law of the Republic. So there is a specific electoral law. I don't like it, I'm not saying it's the best solution, but I'm showing you that there's a better solution than that, to tell you that there are other solutions that could be adopted. I would like the Finocchiaro amendment to be read, but read well since there are very few words, not many. It states: "In accordance with the choices made by the electorate for the candidate advisers." It does not say "with a special choice." That is automatically the most voted candidate advisors, because there is no other space. In fact, if you read the next part of the amendment, it goes on to follow the procedures laid down by the law referred to in the sixth paragraph. Have you read the sixth paragraph? What does the sixth paragraph say, Senator Chiti? The sixth paragraph provides that the distribution of seats between the Regions - I emphasize: between the Regions - shall be effected "before application of the provisions of the preceding paragraph in proportion to their population as shown by the last general census on the basis of the whole quotients and the highest remaining ones." And later: By law approved by both Chambers, the rules governing the allocation of seats and the election of the members of the Senate of the Republic between the councillors and the mayors and those for their replacement are laid down. The procedures for allocating seats to regional councillors by national law are therefore laid down. But you, Senator Chiti, tell me how a national law can establish ways that must be included in regional laws? You yourself said you can't. You said earlier that you cannot accept Senator Augello's amendment because it would increase the number of regional councillors. This is the Constitution, it is not a law, yet we expect national law to enter regional laws to identify among regional councillors which senators should be elected. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The amendment that Senator Finocchiaro has tabled and on which you have found consent is a scam amendment. I repeat: it is a scam amendment. Because it is an amendment that only provides that regional councillors become the most voted senators or in other ways that can be found in a imaginative way, for example by assuming some lists. In fact, how can one determine by national law how to identify the advisers who should be elected senators if each Region has different methods of election of regional councillors? If some Region still has blocked lists and some Region has only preferences, how do you do with a national law to go and fit into those mechanisms? The objection I raised to you and on which you have not answered me is that that national law is promised. It is a national law that will be made one day, but in the meantime, as you yourself have admitted, there is no alternative but the election of senators by regional councillors within them. And it is precisely that misfortune that Senator Augello a moment ago begged, the misfortune that it is this regional legislature that elects the first Senate. This, which is the worst regional legislature we have ever had, between Regions declared unconstitutional for their electoral law and Regions with an incredible amount of suspects, Regions that are at risk of being dissolved sometimes even for mafia and Regions commissioners in appointments! We've seen incredible things in this regional legislature, from the North to the South, everywhere. This is the regional legislature that will elect the first new Senate. As long as there is no law to find more small tricks to find out how to identify regional councillors, it will be those who form the new Senate. Whatever the modalities introduced by a national law, they will always bring to the Senate those same regional advisors that, as we have seen today, are the result of elections that have led to regional legislation among the most investigated of all time in Italy. One of my colleagues mentioned 15 regions under investigation and 525 regional councillors under investigation: these are the ones who will compose the future Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Not to mention the mayors, who are not mentioned in this amendment. I bring you the example of Lombardy: only in this Region, there are 1,530 municipalities and as many mayors. Regional councillors will have to choose 1 from 1,500: paraphrasing the song "One out of 1,000 makes it," here would be the case to say: "1 out of 1,500 makes it." [[Laughter. Applause from the M5S Group.]] And who decides who's gonna make it out of these 1,500? The 80 regional councillors? And on what criteria will they base their choice? On the most representative? On the most valid? [[Senator Paglini's comments.]] This is what my colleague, Mr Endrizzi, said earlier that it will happen: they will elect mayor in a small municipality a character who will then automatically be appointed to the Senate by the Regional Council. A natural passage: we already have examples of historical figures of the old and the very old Republic who are mayors of small municipalities in some regions of Italy and who could become senators. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Nusco is the name I can think of. TAVERNA (M5S). De Mita! CRIMI (M5S). De Mita! I took it for granted because it is quite well known; but it is one like many others. And why not, maybe we could find Berlusconi mayor candidate in Arcore, to take him straight to the Senate! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This could also happen and I mentioned one in many; it could happen anywhere. That's the risk of this law. The Finocchiaro amendment, I repeat, does not solve anything and it is a scam with which you are being deceived. Do not fall into the trap, if you do not have other ambitions, hypothesis that probably exists instead - and here I unfortunately associate with the illations of my colleague Volpi, as Senator Chiti has defined them - because I believe that behind this there is much more, besides the acceptance of a norm. It is too obvious how this is a scam compared to what is required, namely that citizens vote for the members who will have to go and compose the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u222	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u223	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u224	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). These amendments, which you have actually put to the vote all three together, must also be read in the parts declared inadmissible. The proposal that we were concerned about presenting in this House, in fact, always to try to improve the work, was very clear. It also partly resembled the amendment tabled by Senator Augello, which we discussed earlier, but did a further operation. It clearly indicated how the so-called senators were to be chosen as advisors, on a binding indication of voters - and I stress the adjective "binding" - on the basis of a specific electoral law and, consequently, it also stated that they could be directly elected, in addition, one hundred and thirty members, as real senators, also to resolve the question of resources, which seems to have become the center and the figure of this constitutional reform. In addition, the number of Members was reduced at the same time, since one of the points we have always set was to create a balance between the House and the Senate - which has not been resolved - in order to respond seriously to the issue of reducing the number of Members. When we wrote this text - I say it again to President Chiti - we thought very carefully about how to choose words and also how to formulate the proposal on the part that has been declared inadmissible, making the precise choice to use the words "binding indication of voters". From a technical point of view, the solution you have chosen, using the words "in accordance with the choices expressed by the voters" is not known when, to an ordinary law, it continues to appear very vague and confused. We can once again read Amendment 2.204, at the first signature of Senator Finocchiaro. However, there are technical and political problems with this text: ours is not just a game, because we have to say that we do not agree. Together with all the technicians, constitutionalists and electoral experts, we agreed that writing an expression in the Constitution as "in accordance with the choices made," without even using the expression "binding" is a small cloth, which absolutely does not solve the problem. Senator Chiti also spoke of minorities who will even have the opportunity to elect the judges of the Constitutional Court, but this concerns the choices that the Senate will make. I would like to read, however, how the new Senate will be composed according to this scheme and what will therefore be the proportion between the regions. There are as many as ten regions, Senator Chiti, where only one senator councilman can be mentioned. You must then explain to me, perhaps by giving an example, that ordinary law you would like to approve, in order to ensure that the will of the elector can be immediately, automatically and without any kind of mediation reported in the determination of the regional councils. Speaking of pluralism, I would like to remind you of the regions that will have the opportunity to elect only one senator advisor. We are talking about minorities, but what minorities can ever be represented if there is only one adviser? I believe that the law will also have little to do with how to transpose the electorate's statement. Among these Regions that will have only one senator councilman - and I remove the mayors, because that is another story - there is Val d'Aosta - and that's fine - but there are also Liguria, the two provinces of Trento and Bolzano - but to them it's fine, because they have a representative each - Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Umbria, Marche, Abruzzo, Molise and Basilicata. I counted them, and in the end, it's exactly ten. Frankly we should also see the numbers, because in the end there will be a very worrying imbalance, also with regard to the future of the unity of this nation. In fact, the absolute majority of the so-called councilors, and therefore of the Senate, will only be an expression of the Northern Regions, and I am afraid that all this, in the composition of national interests, will be more complicated. The amendments were tabled because we actually wanted to find a solution, and so we had practiced. Senator Augello is right: before presenting his amendment to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, he submitted it to us - the President knows it, because I also spoke about it at the Conference of the Leaders - to show that a solution could be found which, from a technical point of view and respect for the aspiration to direct election, could see a very wide convergence. This road, on the other hand, has no choice. That's the point. And, when you exalt the idea that then there will be an ordinary law that will eventually resolve the problem all open, Senator Chiti - it seems difficult that it will be resolved in Article 39 - on the transitional rule, I point out that the Regions, which - alas - have full power over their electoral laws, can safely do what they have done - I have already talked about it before - with gender preference. And after eight years we had to return for the umpteenth time. From this point of view, the questions remain - alas - all of them intact, because - I repeat - many solutions could be found. We had made another one with that mechanism, but it was chosen - in my opinion - the furthest from what had been the statements and interviews given in August. Senator Gotor, we have all spent our holidays reading on the fundamental point, that is, the direct election of the Senate. Well, after all this, we have actually made the most distant choice among those who could get closer to trying to ensure that citizens can freely choose - and not generally give an indication - those who will have to represent them. On the other hand, the numbers I read about the composition pose a very serious problem. With regard to the issue of mayors and regional councillors - and I would like to say this to everyone, including Senator Crimi - there are good and less good regional councillors, as there are very respectable senators and MPs and others who are obviously not. This concerns the mayors and all those who, at the moment, are engaged in administrative or parliamentary activity. The problem, as far as we are concerned, is once again that we must ensure that we cannot allude to direct election: either there is or there is not. Either it is clear what the mechanisms - and solutions could be put in place many - or unfortunately the allusions in the Constitution cannot be introduced, because they are simple and also allusions. Compared to the mayors in particular - and I conclude - another choice could be made: to send the mayors of the capitals of the Region, so it was very clear and precise their role. It is clear that the choice that has been made in this way will lend itself to operations that will obviously not be very in line with the wishes of the citizens. I'm gonna go back and say that we can't make fun of each other. She made a choice. Senator Finocchiaro reiterated this: if the repeal of Article 2 had passed, he would have had a Senate elected directly and she herself said that this cannot be the case. Therefore, the choice that will be made soon with the approval of the amendment of the Finocchiaro will soften a little bit the pill, will make the smell of the elections smell, but does not establish direct election. At least on this, let's spare ourselves all the hypocrisies. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u225	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u226	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u227	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, Senator De Petris' speech is useful for us to continue on this path. In the Senate House we can accept that there are oppositions, conceptions of life and different institutions based on our ideologies and our vision of the world. However, each of us is bound to maintain a minimum of linearity and consistency. There are people who can get out of this right or wrong. My colleague, Mr Chiti, always likes his speeches, first of all because he tried to bring back the debate on the content (this is what - in my opinion - we should talk about); second, because of the serious way in which things are dealt with: free from pressure and conditioning. Yay, free people! I appreciate your positions, but I do not see a consequent linearity in behavior. There has been so much debate about the direct choice, at least, of the senators, of which there is no trace in the provision. In fact, we wrote exactly the opposite. You could do the exegesis of a party's history. Over the past few decades, the voter's weight and the institutions' maximum transparency have been strengthened. This has led to an infinity of incompatibility between elected positions, to the point that a mayor of a city with a certain number of inhabitants cannot be elected to parliament; a mayor or city councilman cannot hold the office of regional councillor; a regional councillor could not (until yesterday) be elected to Parliament. Well, now everything falls, because we even write in the Constitution, overturning the whole line that has led to the adoption of special laws and past constitutional changes, not only that there is no incompatibility, but that there must be compatibility between the positions of mayor, regional councillor and, indeed, member of Parliament, and in this case of the Senate. We don't elect anything at all. The citizen does not elect anyone, because in Article 2 we write that the regional councillors elect members who will then also be senators. It seems to me that those who led the battle on direct election, apart from Senator Mineo, who remained the last Japanese on patrol, all the free thinkers of the left have turned back; which is at least questionable. If we want to continue with a certain linearity, we must vote on the part of amendment 2.503 which survives and which provides for a binding indication of voters. So it has been said, in this sense it has been fought and so it should be. If we metaphorically stripped the President of the Council of Renzi, bringing him back to what he was before taking office, we would find what you will all remember: a person who led a battle to give citizens back the freedom to vote and to choose their representatives [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , except to change position, because the rate of majority change in the blood also causes changes in behavior and attitudes. If we think about the guarenties, how we are protected by the Constitution, according to which even the parliamentarians should not answer to anyone (it is written in it that they elected themselves without a mandate), we understand that the Constitutional Charter has a great respect for the will of the voters, so that, once they have given their mandate indicating their representative, the latter is free from the logics of the party: it must respond not to the party, but only to the audience of the voters who gave him the mandate. And this is to demonstrate the freedom that the Constitution has wanted to give to every Member of Parliament. I'll take a step back. We forgot all this when, on Article 1, we had to decide whether or not to leave this freedom. There were those who had conducted a great battle and we looked with great esteem at those many or few people who had the courage to stand up against the directions of their own parties. Given that the freedoms have constitutional protection, he asked collegially - and we were in those positions - that the freedom to choose on the most sensitive issues, on values (and thus on ethical issues) should also be respected. Now, removing Article 29 from bicameral competence, leaving these functions exclusively to the Chamber, what does it involve in the system that has been built? It means that the party that wins the elections and has a majority in the House will prevent even a vote of conscience. All of you, in fact, know how the last lines of party have been decided: the party leader summons a national direction; he makes a certain position deliberate and those who do not share it align themselves by necessity, by party rule, by group discipline. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Is it possible that too important concerns, such as the end of life or enlarged marriages, may be decided in this way, without a true freedom, why should we respond to the party's deliberate decision? Since the Senate would have had this freedom and could have affected, probably that matter and would have had greater protection. Well, you do not want to defend values and this freedom, you have renounced freedom of conscience. I can't understand: you have great battles and then you give up freedom of conscience. Today we are also giving up everything we have said, namely to give back to the electoral citizen the power to choose their representatives. I'm gonna stop right here. We've given up our mandate. Some of you have fought a just battle: do your battle to the end. It is not possible to give up - and I do not want to talk about dishes or anything else - by bowing to the great higher wills, because they really go in the opposite direction to what the country would like, to what the majority of the country would like and to what they would like those values for which the Constitutionalists have also given their lives. ( [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u228	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,2503, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to the admissible part of amendments 2,2502, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, and 2,2502a, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.820c is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.727 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u229	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u230	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u231	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to know whether amendment 2.818c has been withdrawn. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It will be voted after amendment 2.727 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u232	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u233	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u234	Orellana (Mist). Mr President, I would ask the House to vote in favour of amendment 2.727 (correct text), of which I will explain the fundamental points. First of all, in the wording I make explicit the extension, so that the new senators will remain in office until the new senators among the regional councillors are elected by the regional councils. This is because the previous wording of the article states that the duration ends with the Regional Council. Therefore, between the end of a regional council and the election of new regional councillors there may be a period of time for which, if there is no implicit extension, a region may not be represented by new senators. I therefore believe that the new extension should be made explicit. And this is the first fundamental point. Secondly, the amendment proposes that: The mandate of the senators ends when the Regional Councils and the Councils of the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano elect, with proportional method, here I refer to paragraph 2, in which it is stated that the method is proportional and, therefore, with the correct distribution between the Groups and in compliance with the popular will, the new members of the Senate of the Republic. The phrase "in respect of the will of the people" is intended as a direct reference to Article 1 of the Constitution, which states that sovereignty belongs to the people. At this point I interrupt the period, so as to satisfy also the constitutionalist Ainis, who had considered the sentence very long. The text then goes on to establish that regional laws concerning the election of regional councils must (so they cannot, but must,) allow the expression of electoral preferences in the choice of members of the Senate of the Republic. First of all, we are talking about preferences and not lists or anything else. Citizens will have to express their preferences on which, among the candidates for regional councillors, they would later have to become senators. This point is put back to a regional law because - in my opinion - the principle of subsidiarity also applies here. And, therefore, the decision is left at the regional level: the law will specifically decide which are the senators. The important thing is that there remains a clear indication of popular will, expressed through preferences, and at this point the field is cleared of any doubt that citizens can be expropriated from this need. Clearly for the senators the passive electorate is represented by the regional councillors, to leave that direct connection between the Senate as an expression of the territorial institutions with respect to the Senate of the Republic. For these reasons, I call for a vote in favour. Honestly, I don't even think it is very different from the spirit of Senator Finocchiaro's amendment, which is the result of the agreement within the majority. I don't think anyone falls in love with who the first signatory is, but I think we're going to see the substance. And - in my humble opinion - my amendment removes all the possible doubts, which I do not agree with to a large extent, expressed by some Members who have spoken before me, and clarifies them unequivocally.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u235	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u236	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u237	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, although the Northern League Group appreciates the efforts of Senator Orellana, it can only vote against this amendment, because it has several critical aspects. I'll quote one. The senator's mandate may never end, because the regional councils may never proceed to the election of the senator. On the other hand, the Regional Councils, within the framework of a legislature, could convene several times to elect the senators within themselves. Therefore, reaffirming the presence of this and other critical issues, we declare the vote against by the Group of the North League. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u238	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u239	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u240	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, we cannot support this amendment, because it would really create chaos or excessive discretion in the regional and provincial councils. The emphasis here is on a number of concepts that have perhaps not yet been well understood or discussed, because we are in this House, when we are voting, rather than in the Commission, where we can compare. Senator Chiti said earlier that he likes that we're being compared here on the merits. But this is late, because we are doing it to things we have done, to agreements we have reached. Not surprisingly, just now, President Finocchiaro said that if Article 2 falls, reform will fall. Then what comparison is it if there are diktat? Electivity is not a matter of goat wool, so let's get back to it for a moment. Electivity is not the crux of this reform. I context what President Finocchiaro has said, because it is not the crucial point: if anything this will be the concettino, the indoor pill that is given (which then is not even a pill, and I will explain it later). The crucial point is the guarantee bodies, the counterweights. We here have a reform whereby the President-in-Office of the Council will take everything, without any counterweight, and we will then introduce some sort of unbridled presidentialism. So, bearing in mind that we have even worse and that this will not be the point that can heal, we have to reason on what electivity means. On the one hand, this would explain why in the Dem minority there was a strong demand for the amendment to introduce it and, on the other hand, it would also explain why the amendment of Senator Finocchiaro cannot be sufficient. The electivity serves to restore to the senators the legitimacy in electing the Head of State in common sitting, compared to the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court. These are crucial steps. If we have the scrutiny of the Constitutional Court on this ganghered, dangerous and absurd reform, and the latter will be further militarized by a party that will potentially have a power of control and conditioning, then we will really have handed over the keys to the lock of democracy to someone who will not even be President Renzi, but probably someone who President Renzi himself takes a lot into consideration and whom we never see here. The Finocchiaro amendment does not remedy, because it requires a future law, which will never be there. The day after the promulgation of the new Constitution, this Senate will no longer exist, it will no longer have reason to exist, it will be virtual, a hologram. But the same is true of the House of Deputies, because this reform also assigns powers other than those assigned to it by the previous Constitution. And, therefore, strictly speaking, President Mattarella would be obliged to dissolve both chambers. Then who will ever do that promised law? Are you going to make it a Chamber of nominations with Italicum, in the hands of one party? How's he gonna do that? Do we think that this reform, which has been voted on with transhumance votes, will take away power or add it to the turncoat? What happens next? You are accepting a bill of exchange without any guarantee. Let me give you an example. A lot of people have contracted a mortgage here. Well, it's as if I said: you give me your apartment and, in return, I give you so many bills with unlimited maturity. But who can fall into this naive trap, if not those who have already decided to bow their heads and simply want a fig leaf to cover the shame? That is why a very serious mistake was made by rejecting the amendment Crimes (so much to understand the amendment Crimes, it was Augello). A very serious mistake has been made which I do not know now whether, and how, we will be able to remedy. Now we will understand, among the remaining amendments, what chance they will remain. Perhaps the only option will be not to vote on Article 2, subtracting us from the blackmail expressed today by President Finocchiaro. This reform not only stands up without Article 2, but stands up better. And without this shameful Article 2, it will incur less in the strays of the Constitutional Court, assuming that, in the meantime (since the next evaluation will be decisive for three more posts), the partition between the parties does not result in another boulder in the freedom of this guarantee body. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u241	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u242	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u243	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise to declare my vote against amendment 2.727 (correct text), and not because it has something particularly undigestible, but only because I am convinced that it is useful to proceed with the direct election of the legislative bodies. Since the debate in this House risks taking on tone and also giving an incorrect representation of what each of us thinks, I would like to say that it is not sustainable the thesis for which indirect election, the one reserved for a specific pool of categories of regional directors and councillors and mayors, would be fundamentally spoiled because our regional and local policy is all compromised and involved in shady business, does not represent the country and, indeed, represents the worst of this country. It would be useful for Parliament sometimes, this House and all of us, starting with those who think we are defending the Italian Constitution, to raise the problem that the country does not start and does not end in this Parliamentary Chamber, which develops mainly in the territories, where the local administrators are in close and direct contact with the citizens and with their daily problems, especially in the small realities, in the most disadvantaged ones, where one risks himself and in many cases one dies to defend the legality. And we cannot give a representation in this Parliamentary House of our local political class as if it were all corrupt. It's wrong! [[Applause from the PD Group and Mr Misto-SEL.]] I do not accept, Mr President, that other organs of the State... Otherwise there is only one solution: we call the general commander of the Carabinieri's weapon and entrust it with the keys of the country, of every municipality and of every region. This will better control the legality and better do our duty. But if we want to maintain a democratic state, democracy begins in the streets of this country, in the small municipalities, in the reality where people live every day, which is not this House. Therefore, the debate develops with respect for everyone, especially those who cannot defend themselves in this House, because they are not here to demonstrate how they do their duty every day and, instead of being victims of corruption, are fighters against corruption. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u244	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u245	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u246	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a comment and a request to Senator Zanda, if possible. I see present Undersecretaries, Deputy Ministers and Ministers. Then I ask myself a question: at this moment its ministries what are they doing? Either we're subtracting them from a very important job or they just don't matter. [[Applause from the M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u247	He could have saved it, Senator Marton.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u248	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u249	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u250	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I shall abstain on Amendment 2.727 (correct text). I had the opportunity to present an amendment to my first signature, on 2.7, which was declared inadmissible, without being able to understand the reason for it. But now I do not want to argue, but to say that my amendment raises more or less the same point as Mr Orellana, the point of extension. In reply to my colleague Mr Arrigoni, I recognise that this problem does indeed exist, but if we do not regulate it, if the Regional Council does not ratify (in the manner that will be decided and with the transitional rules) the elections of future regional advisers, we will be faced with an assembly of senators with a staggered quorum. In the case of the Regional Council of Lombardy - taking up the example of my colleague De Petris - we will find ourselves with an assembly of 100 future senators with a staggered quorum. I shall then put an abstention vote, because in any case the majority amendment, at the first signature of Senator Finocchiaro, healthys this aspect, referring to the following paragraph the modalities of renewal of the posts. Therefore, this is also an invitation to have an authentic interpretation of the so-called extension, and so far the people with whom I have been confronted have not made clear to me in a lapalissian way how it should take place. I make a final remark of a more general nature, finally intervening on the substance. The House, which did not make this path easy, amended Article 7 by providing that the Senate of the Republic takes note of the cessation of the regional or local elective office and the consequent decadence as a senator. It is therefore made clear, clearly and unequivocally, that, if the elected member no longer holds the office of regional councillor, he automatically lapses as a senator. For this reason I urge you not to underestimate how to clarify with future laws the extension of future senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u251	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.727 (correct text), tabled by Senators Orellana and De Pietro, for the admissible part. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u252	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u253	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u254	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, there has clearly been a mistake. We had voted against on behalf of the whole Group. Therefore, it is to be understood that the 5 Star Movement did not approve this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u255	The Presidency takes note of this, Senator Endrizzi. Amendment 2.726 (correct text) has been withdrawn. Amendment 2.822c is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.818c, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. I note that the text of the amendment is a printing error: after the words "coincide" with "coincide" it is necessary to consider that the words "the following" are not inserted. It is an obvious printing error that we can believe is correct. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.7 to 2.934c are inadmissible. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.885c, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.895c to 2.936c are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.2697c.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u256	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u257	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u258	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, on page 315 of the list of amendments there is amendment 2.2030 which was not on the list of inadmissible amendments. So, I'm asking for an audit. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It was declared inadmissible yesterday. It was subject to reformulation, but there was no reformulation and, therefore, it remained inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u259	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u260	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u261	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, here we are dealing with proportionality, which is representativeness. By ensuring the correspondence between the percentage of popular votes at regional level and senatorial seats, we basically say that senators represent not only institutions but also citizens. We are not talking about the method of election, but at least we are saving this elementary principle, and I repeat that Senator Crimi's amendment 2.6 also allowed this. Let us not forget that, although representatives of the local self-governments, the senators will have the task of electing, for example, the President of the Republic, from whom all citizens must feel represented. The same applies to guarantee bodies. The Crimi amendment was therefore intended to compensate for a distortion on which exceptions of constitutionality will certainly be raised in relation to the fundamental principles of the Constitution. There will be exceptions of constitutionality on the Constitution and this will be very serious. We must restore the representativeness, even of the citizens, for all the functions that the Senate will retain: in the amendment of constitutional laws, in the Constitution itself, in the election of the guarantee bodies. Without going any further, we are here to reduce the damage. The demonstration of the will of the majority and the design that can be seen in filigree on the pages of this reform will also depend on this, i.e. on the positive acceptance at least of what can make the text of the Constitution more acceptable. A strong "load" has been placed, as they say in the trumps, on the fact that we have been waiting for it for many years, so now or never. Fine, but it will never be, if you don't make a law, a Constitution that holds the scrutiny of the Constitutional Court. If it is clearly spoiled, in fact, the failure will be even greater and the bouncing down of the credibility of politics and institutions will be devastating. I therefore ask everyone to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u262	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2697c, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.2699c is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,2701c, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, for the admissible part. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2,990 (text 2), for which the secret vote was accepted, for only one part. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.902, on the admissible part. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). President, I'm withdrawing it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,2029, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,903 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,733.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u263	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u264	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u265	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we have tried to highlight and recall, in this amendment as well as in others that we have tabled, that together with the other self-governments there are also special self-governments. Not that this is not mentioned, recalled or contained in the measure in question, but that is limited to the two Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. I say this because to each of the two autonomous Provinces is given, for example, the possibility of having two senators per head - while to Sardinia, which has 600,000 more inhabitants, is given instead to have only three senators - with an imbalance, if we want, with respect to the orientation, taken in the measure under consideration, to recognize to each Region however at least one senator. I say this because our Constitutional Charter must contain a fair path. In fact, it is not conceivable that the Constitutional Charter provides for privileges in itself, for this or that local community, or for this or that national community. It must be fair, because otherwise the implementing rule of the fundamental principles becomes a rule that violates those fundamental principles. Political representation must cover all citizens of this country in a uniform manner. No exceptions can be made. Already those of Trento and Bolzano are the only Provinces that remain alive even with respect to the new construction of the Republic, to its new articulation: all the other Provinces disappear. So, the reflection that we do what is it? If we use a criterion - this could be legitimate - so that specialties are given special attention by the Constitution - we agree that it is recognised to all minorities who find themselves in a specialty condition - we also need special regulation for participation in the Senate of the Republic. This must concern everyone, and we try to introduce, through this first amendment - others will come after it - a path of specific recognition to specialties that have ethnic-cultural, ethnic-linguistic roots but also of objective condition. I think that Sardinia, for example, does not recognize its insularity where it should be written in this Constitution that Sardinia is an island, so at least we bring geography back also within the law because from that condition comes a disadvantage that must be covered by the public authority of the State. That is the philosophy behind this speech, Mr President, and of course I shall be voting in favour of Amendment 2,733. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u266	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u267	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u268	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I am simply announcing the vote in favour of the 5 Star Movement Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u269	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,733, tabled by Senators Uras and Scilipoti Isgrò. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.842 and 2.843 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2.2032.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u270	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u271	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u272	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am speaking in an explanation of vote on this amendment which is in our signature and on which we will of course vote in favour, but I would like to explain the point. In this debate that we are having this afternoon, and that perhaps we deserved to be able to do even in the days and weeks before - I am thinking of the debate denied in the Commission - we could perhaps have deepened the real significance of the scope of Article 2 of this constitutional reform. In fact, the issue of the senators' electivity cannot - it has been widely debated this morning - simply be the subject of separate agreements, made outside the Senate Chamber, but it would have deserved a serious debate that must necessarily place at the centre the issue of the participation of citizens, that is, how to reconnect that broken thread, now too long, between citizens and politics and between citizens and the sense of the state. The debate on how senators are elected and the return of the right to vote and direct participation in elections to citizens cannot simply become a matter to be referred to a later moment or clarification, in the light of an amendment that formalized the summary found in meetings outside the Parliamentary Assembly. We would have liked to talk about this. Many solutions have been proposed, perhaps not the best, but if we really had the ability to compare and listen, perhaps we could have chosen the best solution because, beyond the positions and the general idea on the establishment of constitutional reform - which, as we have said several times, we do not like and do not convince us because it is the ideological system that we do not like - we do not shy away from the debate. The debate on the election would have been important, because we have already seen what the second-level election meant in this country and we know how important it is for citizens to choose their representatives in this Parliament. In this regard too, we have had a long experience in recent years: Porcellum has been the main negative expression, of course, of how citizens have been deprived of the opportunity to choose and participate. And after election campaigns and whole years in which the whole centre-left has been committed to saying that freedom of choice had to be restored to the citizens, well in this reform everything is done except to give back the freedom of choice to the citizens and you cannot think of returning it with what was written in amendment 2,204 tabled by Senator Finocchiaro because - as we understood during the broad debate - interpretations are wide and the meaning totally different. One of the systems that could have been identified could, for example, be to present, in conjunction with the regional elections, separate lists to allow citizens to choose the senators who would then, in fact, have to compose the Senate of the Republic. Evidently, even that direct form of election is not good because the fundamental principle is to deny citizens the possibility of choice: the system that you have thought, in fact, is clearly a system in which political oligarchies will choose who will go to be the senator councilman, therefore, absolutely denying the representation of citizens. I would add that the debate that still exists in this House on the excessive number of amendments is a debate that no longer has any reason to exist, because it is a debate that no one believes anymore, given that the number of amendments (both the 85 million and the famous 60 000 tabled by us) that would have prevented the discussion of the measure on civil rights have not been present here for a long time now. Perhaps, if we were all intellectually honest, we would have had the courage to say that since this constitutional reform is a reform that responds to much more pact, which is no longer that of the Nazarene but the broad Dini-Renzi or Renzi-Verdini pact, then the package has already been packed and it cannot be changed at all. If we had been honest we would have had to seize a moment of calm debate, like today's, in order to address a problem that is not so trivial and that concerns - I repeat - the crucial issue that in recent years politics has left out that it was to reconnect that broken thread in the relationship with the citizens. Once again we make a very serious mistake and we risk losing a very important opportunity to correct those serious mistakes that the center-right had committed. Instead, as we are talking about a Renzi-Verdini reform, renunciation of the incredible thread that had been interrupted with the referendum against the Berlusconi reform and that, instead, you now think of dusting and continuing. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u273	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u274	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u275	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the debate is continuing, although everything seems inexorably destined to take away from the citizens the possibility of choosing who will sit in this Senate. Mr President, in the meantime, it has been about seven hours since our request for access to documents has passed, and we are not, at this time, in the material availability of the original copy of Amendment 1,203, signed or not signed by Senator Cociancich, who just issued statements to the press, saying once again that he is the author of the amendment, but in reality, skilfully dribbling about the original signature of the amendment itself. I think it is now clear to the world that that amendment was not signed by Senator Cociancich in the original. We are still waiting for the copy to be produced and in the meantime we continue to vote on the Constitution. But I ask: how can we continue, even with these amendments, to argue on the substance, when the same legislative process is based on doubt (or certainty), that it is not destroyed in this House, that there are false foundations and origins of this constitutional reform? We can also draw attention to the need to debate the substance rather than the form or the regulatory aspects; but, Mr President, this Constitution is being amended here by these votes, and when, then, it will be final, the future generations and citizens will be left with a Constitution that will have been based, not on constituents called De Gasperi, Togliatti or others and not even on the Nazarene Pact, but on constituents who do not even have the courage to declare that they have signed an amendment tabled, with which the debate on the subjects which are the subject of the future activity of this Senate has been prevented. And there are other deceptions in here, because if Senator Cociancich lent himself, we know he's not the only one who did. In the meantime, the citizens are left with the illusion, with a sort of cumbersome algorithm (again this word, this time really used by the opposition against the majority), when they say to the citizens: "You pretend to go to the election, then we will choose who will sit in the Senate." Mr President, it is not fair to say these lies to people. It is clear to everyone that the President of the Council of Ministers Renzi entrusts the management of this measure - the definition of a constitutional change - to his Minister Boschi, who in turn entrusts everything to messages that he sends to Undersecretary Lotti, who in turn will obviously hear Aquilanti, who in turn will bring amendments to the majority and to some senator. No, the constituent spirit in here can't be seen, can't be heard and there isn't. If we were in a conclave, it would seem that the Holy Spirit has been gone for a long time. These amendments still allow the possibility of including in the Constitution the choice by citizens, instead of regional advisers, of future senators. We take note for the umpteenth time, despite the high flights of Senator Chiti, that its political part, within the political part of the Democratic Party, has adapted. It has been said, Senator Chiti, that what you have found is mediation and that we will then vote with Amendment 2.204 Finocchiaro. It is too complicated to be a virtuous and constitutional solution: you have admitted it too. If the routes are crooked, it means they have other reasons. The paths to be set up must be clear, defined and clear. If a path is tortuous it means that there are constraints that prevent you from reaching that direct expression of vote that you yourself have sustained for a long time. It is a question of intellectual honesty to admit it by saying: We had to adapt to this situation. It is not a matter of saying that it is the least worst, because it is something other than direct election. There will be no direct election, however you want to see it, even when we have to admit a benefit... [[Brusio from the AP Group(NCD-UDC). Senator Mussini's comments.]] Mr. President, there's a market down here. I realized that on the other side there is always the AL-A Group that expands and maybe tries to hook up some other senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u276	Please, we said we'd let it talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u277	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I have concluded, there is little to say, we have now realized that there is such a gap in this House that even the main arguments could be removed simply from distraction. Valga, Senator Chiti, what Thomas Moro said, that already selling the soul for the whole world is a bad deal; however, adapting the sentence to the circumstance, bending one's convictions simply to please those in government at this time is really a bad deal. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u278	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u279	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u280	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Forza Italia will certainly be voting in favour of amendment 2,2032 even in the restricted wording that you have proposed, even more so in this wording, that is to say to the words: ', presented on lists', because it gives the possibility to be clearer even to those who have satisfied themselves with the smoky expression 'in conformity'. Moreover, the fact that the Government and the majority do not vote for it means the mental reserve that exists behind those words "in accordance" that will be proposed to us in Senator Finocchiaro's amendment 2.204. In fact, if the principle of separate lists were to be clearly accepted, it would be absolutely unequivocal what we want to say when we talk about compliance and referral back to a subsequent ordinary law, if we also want to maintain a benefit of fluency with respect to the declarations that have been made. You clear the field, you accept the inclusion in the Constitution of the words """" presented in lists """ and there is no reason neither for us to doubt, nor for you, possibly, to have to find yourself with a handful of flies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u281	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,2032, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words 'presented in lists'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.2032 and amendments 2.2033 to 2.2040, as well as amendments 2.2042 to 2.2047, are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2041 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2048, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendments 2.2049, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, and 2,2050, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2051, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.2052, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the word "at the same time." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.2052 and amendments 2.2053 and 2.2054 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2055, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 2.2056, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,2057, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). A request has been made for the provision of amendment 2,991 (text 3). If no comments are made, it will be voted on later, together with Amendments 2,204/1 and 2,204/100 (text 2). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2058, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,846, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.844 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,845 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.847, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.848, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.2700c.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u282	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u283	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u284	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, why do we ask that the word 'dai' be changed? This change, which has been introduced to the House, identifies with a clear, certain and unequivocal sentence the duration of the senators' office so that it is equal to the duration of the institutions of the institutional bodies from which they were elected. The senators will be elected by the regional councils, according to this provision, right? There is no doubt about that. Mayors will be elected by regional councils, not municipalities, because citizens are not an institutional body. Therefore, when it is said that the senators have been elected, the Regional Councils are meant. From what is literally read, this means that the mayors will last as long as the Regional Council from which they were elected lasts. This, on the one hand, is good because, if the Regional Council were to lapse, it would immediately have to lapse as Senator the Senator who is mayor and will be re-elected by the new Regional Council. Too bad, though, that something else can happen. The other case is that of the mayor, elected by the Senator Regional Council, whose Municipality is dissolved by mafia; or he lapses because his mandate has been completed; or he is simply distrusted and decayed. However, he remains senator, because the duration of his term of office coincides with the duration of the institutional body from which he was elected senator, i.e. from the Regional Council. You see, then, the absurdity we find ourselves in. The objection is that later, much later, it says that the Senate takes note of the decadence as a senator when this mayor decays as mayor. Now, considering that the Senate takes note of something that is not provided for in the Constitution, because the text first makes a clear, clear, unequivocal statement; after that, there is a factual procedural activity, that is, how the Senate intervenes to heal the case in which the mayor falls from office: taking note of it and not taking a vote. But do you understand that the Senate takes note of something that, theoretically, wants to interpret it for how it is written, is not foreseen in the Constitution? This is a simple demonstration of how badly written it is! It's misspelled! [[Senator Tonini's comments.]] Colleagues, it's misspelled! This means that a mayor, whose decadence is noted... [[Senators Susta and Tonini laughter.]] It's no use laughing! In fact, laugh, because he laughs well who laughs last! Remember that! And with this electoral law we will laugh! Don't worry, we're gonna laugh so much in the next election! Then we'll see who's laughing! You've been smiling! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes, please speak to the presidency. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, they are laughing at my speech, so allow me to reply. So do they when we comment and so do I. Having said that, a mayor falls from office, the Senate takes note of his decadence. I expect this mayor to appeal immediately afterwards, trying to reach the Constitutional Court, for a correct interpretation of the Constitution in the combined interpretation of the various articles. This will happen. And since they insist, we want to read this article, because it is right to read it: The term of office shall be the same as that of the bodies of the territorial institutions from which they were elected. So, Senator Tonini, are you telling me that the mayors have been elected by the territorial institutions, that is, by the municipal councils? No, they're elected by the citizens. TONINI (PD). From the Regional Council! From the Regional Council! From the Regional Council! CRIMI (M5S). But here it is not written by the territorial institutions and the citizens. What are the territorial institutions that elect these senators? Regional Councils. It's clear, it's very clear. But it is not a problem, because we will laugh when, in a few years, there will be appeals to the Constitutional Court for this badly written rule, like all the other things you have written. Today, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have discussed a measure in which we correct things that you have misspelled. Even the law on the financing of parties you wrote it wrong, so much so that you have to make a law to change it. You don't know how to write the laws, and we're the incompetents. Go home! Think of the good school! Should we remind you of what happened at the beginning of September? And you want to reform the Constitutional Charter? But go home, you'll do this country a favor. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u285	The explanation of vote seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u286	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u287	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u288	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I think Senator Crimi's reasoning is basically correct. We will find ourselves with a Senate whose plenum will be absolutely questioned by the evolution of many situations in the Municipal Councils and in the Municipalities. So, if we want a senate working at reduced ranks, then let's move on. I initially contested the composition with the presence of the mayors and with the mechanism of election by the regional councils; so I believe this law, as it is coming out, absolutely inapplicable. But there is a fundamental problem here from the point of view of the Constitution. We are basically endorsing a Parliamentary Assembly (a legislative assembly, because it remains in some ways this Senate) whose plenum we are already questioning at the beginning. I understand a plenum that can go into crisis because of events that may arise. But, when there is reasonable certainty that, for some interlocking events between the various elections and for the vicissitudes of ordinary and daily life especially of the municipal administrations, the plenum will fail, there is also a lack of territorial representativeness. We know in fact that a mayor is elected for each Region; therefore, when that mayor had, for reasons also related to his resignation, with the replacement by a commissioner, no longer being a member of the Senate or being a member of the Senate abusively, as Senator Crimes said, I believe that there is really a serious problem of plenum. You, Mr President, in the final coordination, perhaps you should reflect, also on the basis of the considerations you have made as depositary not only of the Rules of Procedure and the formal respect for the texts, but also of the reasonableness - as you said yesterday - of the texts in their consequentity. So let's think about it. However, I will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u289	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u290	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u291	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, we will also vote in favour of this amendment, because, as Senator Crimi has well explained, there is no possibility of misunderstanding. This is why the definition of "territorial institutions" cannot be referred to the electoral citizen and the electoral body, but only to the two territorial bodies or institutions (the Municipalities or the Regions). In the first wording approved at first reading at the Senate, it was said that they were elected to the Senate; this made sense, because it referred to the Municipal Councils or Regional Councils and therefore to the temporal coincidence with those two bodies. The meaning is quite clear and it will create those problems that Senator Crimes mentioned. It is precisely for this reason that we think that this would be a common sense operation, which has nothing to do with either an ideological issue or the fact that we are in favour of or against the reform of the Constitution. We must do the best we can, with these kinds of amendments, to reform the Constitution. The best and most common sense is what Senator Crimi pointed out in his amendment. That is why I believe that we should vote and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u292	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u293	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u294	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the amendment proposed by Senator Crimi, for reasons which I shall take up when we finally arrive at the Finocchiaro amendment. I recalled, a bit like a torment, the idea that there is a transition from a bicameralism equal to an unconcluded bicameralism and actually the solution identified in Senator Finocchiaro's amendment to equal bicameralism is the icing on the cake for the passage to the unconcluded bicameralism. The issues identified by Senator Crimi and reiterated by his previous colleagues say more clearly: we try to solve factors of confusion by increasing confusion. I therefore think that voting in favour of this amendment can be one of the last attempts to try to put serious remedies to the failures that have been caused.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u295	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u296	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u297	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, Senator Crimi's arguments, which were then shared by others, are undoubtedly suggestive, but I think they are unfounded. Why? They are unfounded because it is true that the rule that we write states that the term in office of the senator is related to the territorial organ that elected him, but the cases represented by Senator Crimes, that is, the decadence as mayor because the City Council has dissolved or for a sentence of conviction of first instance, by the effect of the Severino law, weaken the assumption, the subjective condition that has made them eligible and therefore senators of the Republic. Therefore, failing the assumption, it is clear that the subject lapses regardless of the duration of the territorial body that elected him. The problem is another: the decadence triggered by the failure of the subjective condition of the mayor who was elected senator by the regional body. It seems to me, therefore, that the problem that is being posed is not entirely converging with the practical case. That is why we are not passionate about this issue, because we believe it to be completely superfluous and therefore we shall vote against Amendment 2 700c.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u298	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u299	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u300	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to add a particular point to what my colleague Mr Crimes has said, which I see very careful about this issue, something which, certainly in the sense of absurdity, could happen. The law provides that a mayor may not also be a regional councillor in the same Region in which the Municipality of which he is mayor is located, but not in another Region. That mayor may be elected senator by the Regional Council of the Region in which his City is located and may also be elected regional councillor in another Region. He would then be mayor, regional councillor of another region and senator. This is another possibility that this bill does not exclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u301	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2700c, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,849.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u302	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u303	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u304	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, here we are always at the same point, between 'dai' and 'nei', Mayday, they say on planes, and that is the danger, beyond the line. I regret that Senator Falanga, who is a lawyer, is again contradicted by a beginner like me, but if in an article of the Constitution the criterion of election is simply defined, without any other part being defined as that of decadence, at the moment when the Senate takes note, it cannot postulate that assumption of which Senator Falanga spoke, because it simply does not exist. The Constitution is not something on which one should or can postulate; or we are going to flood the Constitutional Court with a long path of clarification, because it simply did not take place in this case that work of the Commission in which these aspects could really have been analysed, which are not in detail. No word of the Constitution can be considered a detail and then left to the legislative offices that fix the "terrors." Here, however, we return to the need to change that error. We are proposing solutions: if you reject them, you will be responsible for the problems that will arise; unfortunately, we will not laugh at your credibility, but the Italians will weep. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u305	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.849, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u306	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u307	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u308	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to point out that I was not able, by mistake, to vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u309	We take note of that. Amendments 2.851 and 2.850 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2,600, which is essentially identical to Amendments Nos 2,879c, 2,2694c, 2,2695c, 2,601 and 2.8. A single vote will be taken and, with reference to the question of prepositions from and to the original text, as proposed by the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u310	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u311	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u312	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to make one small point. Since there has been talk of assumption, in the sense that being mayor is a prerequisite for being a senator, reading the Constitutional Charter... FALANGA (AL-A). I didn't say "presumed" but "condition": it's different! CRIMI (M5S). Excuse me, please. Senator Falanga, didn't you vote against this reform last time? Now he's in favor? It's easy to change coats here. Do you think that this text defends you Falanga, not many of the PD! [[Laughter and applause from the M5S Group. Senator Falanga's comments.]] The condition that had therefore been mentioned before, as it is written in the text, must exist at the time of the election. In fact, it is written that the Regional Councils elect the senators from among their members, and to the extent of one for each, among the mayors of the Municipalities of their respective territories; they elect from among the mayors: it is not said that it is a condition that must remain for the duration. The principle of the condition therefore does not exist. I am not saying that there is not something in the text that calls him back, because later it is written that the Senate takes note of the cessation of the office of mayor and, as such, of the cessation of the office of senator, but takes note of something that is within the same Constitution, in the previous articles, is not affirmed, as a principle, as a requirement or as a condition: call it as well as you want. It is simply said that it takes note of one thing, but it is not foreseen. He's not here. The text is misspelled. I repeat: I am not saying that you did not know what you wanted to do or get, but you wrote it wrong. You wrote it wrong, using the preposition "nei", assuming that the mayor will remain in office if the Regional Council lapses and you wrote it badly, using the preposition "dai". Try to write it better, to stop for a moment, to reflect and to write this better, which is the Constitutional Charter and not just any law, which you can modify every day. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u313	I'm asking to speak for myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u314	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u315	[[Protests from the M5S Group]] FALANGA (AL-A). I am being called into question by Senator Crimes, who tells me that I would be... ANDRIZZI (M5S). You must intervene at the end of the session! Mr Lezzi (M5S). You can't talk now! [[Reiterate protests from the M5S Group]] . PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, we're in the process of an explanation of vote. FALANGA (AL-A). President. - I understand that. [[Senators Cappelletti and Santangelo show the Rules of the Senate at the address of Senator Falanga. Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Later! Later! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Rules of Procedure do not allow you to speak, at this moment, on a personal note: you can do so at the end of the sitting, Senator Falanga. Mr Lezzi (M5S). At the end of the session! FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, then I would like to speak for an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. FALANGA (AL-A). The explanation of vote is made by myself... [[Senator Lezzi's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u316	Senator Lezzi, please. FALANGA (AL-A). ...that doesn't defend the measure, that doesn't need a defense on my part. However, the explanation of vote makes it one that of legal norms, unlike his colleague, who is not even a lawyer, or of Crimes, a judicial officer, has read a little more and gives a scientific interpretation of the norm.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u317	[[Lively protests from Senator Lezzi. Ironic applause from Senator Crimes.]] There's no point in getting excited! Mr Lezzi (M5S). You can't! You don't have to talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll call you back to order, Senator Lezzi. MORONESE (M5S). Get his voice out! Fat, you have to stop him! FALANGA (AL-A). Senator Crimes, president. Senator Falanga, do not continue in your provocations. FALANGA (AL-A). There's a difference... [[Reiterate protests from the M5S Group.]] Let me finish! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Falanga, I remind you that you are registered to speak for an explanation of vote. You must address the Presidency and not other senators. We had a peaceful climate of vote and debate: let us not exaggerate it. We were having a good discussion on important issues. FALANGA (AL-A). I welcome your request and declare my Group's vote against and add Mr Lezzi (M5S). Stop! Stop! FALANGA (AL-A). ...that there is a substantial difference between the rules of the executive process, which perhaps knows the criminal justice officer well, and the substantive law rules, which perhaps I know a little better. Mr Lezzi (M5S). This is unacceptable! [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). And now this is with you: enjoy it all! Mr Lezzi (M5S). Enjoy it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u318	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u319	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u320	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I would like to say that the Northern League Group voted in favour of the first-signed amendment by Senator D'Alì. I would like to invite my fellow Senators of the majority, who have set up a pantomime for weeks and months, led by their secretary. They have shifted the debate of the media exclusively or mainly on the electivity of the Senate and the new senators, instead diverting attention from those who are the other deeply negative aspects of the reform, such as the emptying of the functions of the Senate, which no longer has a legislative autonomy; the cancellation, or almost, of the powers of the Regions; the clause of supremacy. Look, ladies and gentlemen, with the Finocchiaro amendment you cannot or will not be able to cheat citizens for long. With the Finocchiaro amendment, if anything, you will be able to recover an electivity from the citizen as far as 75 senators-advisors are concerned, but you will never give the people direct electivity as far as the twenty-four mayors are concerned. People have to understand that. If you do not approve of the first-signed amendment by Senator D'Alì there will be two conditions under which the twenty-four elected mayors will lapse: the first, for the natural termination of the term of office by the mayor; the second, from the moment when the mandate of the Regional Council will cease, which at second level elects the Senator mayor. This is a double scam you are carrying on a plate in front of the Italian people. Therefore, at least approve this part of the D'Ali amendment, because you will not be able to include the direct election by the twenty-four mayors, but at least improve the whore from whom they were elected. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u321	Please, Senator Arrigoni, speak properly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u322	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u323	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u324	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, I believe that Mr D'Alì's amendment, although acceptable, does not clarify one thing, in the sense that the Regional Council elects a figure, one of the mayors in office in a given municipality, and that, as long as they remain as mayors in that municipality, they can remain in office as senators. What prevails is membership of that city, being mayor of that city, or being mayor? I'll explain. If I am mayor of my municipality and at the end of my mandate I can no longer reappear, on the same day there is the renewal of a municipality contermine, I run and I am elected mayor of the municipality contermine, I maintain the characteristic to be still senator even if no longer mayor of the original municipality but still being mayor of another municipality or not? I'll leave that to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u325	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u326	Would you like to speak in dissent from the group, Senator? TAVERNA (M5S). No, ma'am. I need clarification from Senator Barani as a woman. Besides, I think you all know me by now and I have no problem with a slightly more colorful word, but with an extremely vulgar gesture that Senator Barani repeated for more than once against Senator Lezzi... LEZZI (M5S). Come here, come here and do it again! MORONESE (M5S). Shame on you! TAVERNA (M5S). I'm asking if any PD women have noticed...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u327	[[Liveful and repeated protests from Senator Lezzi.]] Please, Barbara! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, calm down. I'll call you back to order. Senator Barani, what did you do? TAVERNA (M5S). I am ashamed to mimic him, Mr President, but he has also done so in a way of gratification, putting him back with Senator Verdini next door, perhaps because it is precisely to one and the other to consider women in that way, and to do... I don't know if I can, if I can, like this. Pig! You're a pig! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I'll call you back to order. LUCIDES (M5S). He's coming here, he's coming here! Mr Lezzi (M5S). You're disgusting! MORONESE (M5S). That is unacceptable. Are you kidding me? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We understand your reactions, we agree, but no one knows what he did. TAVERNA (M5S). Pig, pig, shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We understand your reactions if there has been an improper gesture. [[Extremely lively and repeated protests from the M5S Group]] Calm down, please move on. What does this have to do with constitutional reform? AIROLA (M5S). First of all, respect for the senators in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barani, do you want to say something? I think I'd better clear it up.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u328	All I said was that Senator Falanga was not given the floor on his own behalf, but was given an explanation of vote, so he spoke... [[Very lively, vibrant protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u329	Anyway, in case his gesture was interpreted in a way...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u330	[[Ironic comments from the M5S Group]] Mr Barani (AL-A). My gesture was to point out that Senator Falanga had spoken. If they miserably interpret him... far from me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Can we deal with constitutional reform? Mr Barani (AL-A). They want to throw her in a fight; I just said that we gave the floor to Senator Falanga. Period. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u331	Senator Barani, finish your speech. Can you clarify how it's possible...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u332	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, if it was misinterpreted, I apologise, but it had nothing offensive to it. [[Vibrating protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u333	If it's misinterpreted, Senator Barani apologizes. He apologized. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u334	VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What do you want? Senator Barani's head? Mr Lezzi (M5S). Can I talk? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He apologized. We can move on. Mr Paglini (M5S). You gotta kick him out! Mr Lezzi (M5S). He did it to me. Can I answer that? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Can we move on? The accident is closed; it's closed... No! Mr Lezzi (M5S). I can't talk anymore! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm just gonna let your group's leader speak. The Parent Company knows what happened. Senator Castaldi, let us understand.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u335	I would like to know how you could even allow such a person to justify himself. You do well not to have anyone elected anymore because these people outside would actually receive that thing (without gestures) from the people. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It would be right for you, Mr President, first of all to take your smile off your face in front of this crap. I'd like Senator Zanda to use the same heat as yesterday! These are the people you're bonding with and you're doing constitutional reform! PRESIDENT. - The debate is We need to move forward with constitutional reform. Give Senator Lezzi the floor, which, I think I can say, is also in a particular situation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I'm asking Senator Lezzi to step in and hear what the accident was. However, I invite you to remain calm.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u336	Now that he has finally given me the word, after days, and since the vulgar gesture... GAETTI (M5S). The video! The video! Mr Lezzi (M5S). I'm the only one who can decide whether or not to accept an apology from Senator Barani. For days we have been rebuked because we are rude, because we cry; now we are also accused of homophobia because we denounce a fifty-seven-year-old who receives the baby pension! Now we're sick of it! We are also an institution! We have also been sent here by the citizens with the free vote and we have the right to respect! And when one of us asks to speak, since dogs and pigs talk here, we talk too! We're talking too! Now, Senator Barani said that we misread; he didn't apologize. When he apologizes, an apology will be accepted, otherwise we cannot talk here about the Constitution, President Grasso. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Senator Barani made an eloquent gesture, referring to a woman, and must apologize, in the name, above all, of the other men, President Grasso! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Santangelo takes off his jacket as a sign of protest]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Get out! Get out! Get out! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Castaldi approaches government benches]] CASTALDI (M5S). Get up in front of the Minister of the Republic, and apologize... [[Live comments from Senators Donno and Nugnes]] CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Barani, go home! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ciampolilo, why are you yelling like that? Let's get a little calm and move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u337	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u338	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u339	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I speak as Vice-Head of the Northern League Group, but above all as a woman, because the gesture that Senator Barani has made - and I have seen it - does not only offend Senator Lezzi, but offends all the women in here. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Rizzotti]] TAVERNA (M5S). You have to kick him out! STEFANI (LN-Aut). However, I would like to see a movement of pride on the part of all the groups, because there are women who fought. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Rizzotti]] These are vulgar gestures, which must be kept away from this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] TAVERNA (M5S). Pig! You need to kick him out. Get out!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u340	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u341	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u342	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, on my goodness, I did not make any gestures. [[Very lively and vibrant protests from the M5S Group.]] I explained to her that the word was given as an explanation of vote, rather than as a personal fact, to Senator Falanga, and the gesture was to say: Did you see that? You interrupted an explanation of vote and made another explanation of vote. Just this and nothing more. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] PUGLIA (M5S). He kicked us out of the Chamber! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If we can move on... No! Get out! Get out! Mr Paglini (M5S). President, you must suspend! M5S GROUP choir. Get out! Get out! Get out!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u343	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u344	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u345	Mr Warra (PD). Mr President, I think that what has happened deserves further consideration. The debate in this House is already often over, but it is not possible to accept such a gesture. Now, there are witnesses and witnesses. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and LN-Aut groups and the Senators Simeoni and Rizzotti]] I think that the Presidency should at least understand whether, on the basis of video recordings, this gesture can be documented. In my opinion it would be necessary for the senator responsible for this gesture, at least misunderstanding (but I doubt it is such), to apologize if even remotely it has been misinterpreted, to distance himself from a gesture that is offensive to all the women present here and to all the women of the country and the world. ( [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u346	Preannouncement that we will verify, based on circumscribed reports. Now, during the work of this House, it cannot be done.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u347	VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Get out! Get out! MORONESE (M5S). Senator Petrocelli was kicked out for much less.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u348	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u349	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u350	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I believe that you, like all of us and like all of us, will understand the seriousness of such a gesture, especially if it is done in this House. I would ask you, Mr President, not to allow this House to become even worse from a moral point of view than it appears today. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would ask you to bear in mind the deterioration that is taking place in this House. I would also like to join in the words of Mrs Stefani, who first called on us all to be responsible for how this House should be defended: this will not become a bivouac, Mr President. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It cannot become a bivouac; this remains a parliamentary Chamber! I ask you to allow me to conclude my speech by making a prayer. [[Comments of Senator Taverna]] I beg Senator Barani to formally apologise for this unqualifiable gesture and to remove the carnation he improperly carries in the pocket of the jacket, because he turns the socialists dead in the grave for the freedom of this country! [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] Take off that carnation, you clown!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u351	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u352	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u353	FADELI (PD). Mr President, since we are in an exact Chamber of Parliament (we are in the Senate of the Republic), I think it is important, if you agree, to have a meeting of the Presidency Council as soon as possible, in the time allowed also by our schedule. In fact, I consider it important not only that we ascertain what has happened today, but also absolutely distinguish, not only on the basis of the education and respect we owe to women and men who do not use gestures against women. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and LN-Aut Groups),]] who does and who doesn't. At this point I would also ask that, with all the instruments available to it, the Presidency Council should all together assess the acts and offensive words for women who are often repeated in this House. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u354	I think we will proceed to all possible investigations, including a documented and detailed report, to understand what is the object in a clear way and then verify... [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] This is a disciplinary matter, so it must be dealt with by the Presidency Council. CIOFFI (M5S). But he votes! You can't vote! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 5.58 p.m. and resumed at 18.18 p.m.) Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u355	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u356	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u357	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we had already asked for the floor. Senator Petraglia had to speak to stigmatize what happened and, of course, stigmatize the level of degradation that has occurred in this House. I am very sorry to have to do this; what has happened in this House is very serious. Mr President, when I joined the Senate, the number of women elected was very low. Fortunately, this number has increased. But what I'm sorry about is that there's no culture of respect for senators in here. This is the result that unfortunately is before our eyes. When there is a confrontation between men, between senators, heavy words can be used, as we have seen these days, but no tools, words or gestures of a sexist nature are ever used, such as those which - it is not the first time, alas - have been expressed in this House. So I believe and hope that there will be exemplary punishment in the Presidency Council from this point of view. Then there is another question, Mr President, and I say this quietly: those who sit on these benches can no longer continue to be in this Chamber under these conditions. Whoever is part of our Group, every time there is a session, every ten minutes or a quarter of an hour you have to scream, scream and get up in person to have the chance to speak. Mr President, we have to find a solution, otherwise this only means - and at this point I can only think so - that there is deliberate discrimination. I say this to the kind senators who today perform the function of Secretary, a function that is sometimes performed by kind senators: the Secretary's Office, which on other occasions I have also performed, is a very delicate office. You are not just there to take notes or read the computer, but you have to be careful about everything that happens in this House, including the previous episode and including when someone asks for the floor: they are next to you, President, to help you and they have to do it all the way. This is the last time I have put this question; then, Mr President, I have finished my voice and I have physical difficulties in being in this Chamber under these conditions. You take decisions and measures, because we can no longer continue to do our work under these conditions, and that applies to you and to those who are now on duty as Secretary; but because it happens regularly, we must take measures, otherwise we will take our own.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u358	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u359	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u360	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I have already asked a question in recent days that I feel I must reiterate strongly: this is not a square, in which there are expressions of consensus or dissent; this is the Senate of the Republic. And in the Senate of the Republic there are written rules and behaviors that must be required of all, in a general way without allowing anyone, to me first, to derogate from you. Mrs De Petris has raised the question of culture and respect for women and I fully agree with her, but in this House, ladies and gentlemen, there is no culture of respect and that is enough, not just respect for women. In these two years of the legislature I have seen and heard of all the colors and not a single adequate measure has been taken to ensure that these behaviors are not perpetuated. Each of us is responsible for our own acts. I do not want to defend my colleague Barani. I was distracted and did not see the matter, but I believe that there are parliamentary records and so it was good for my colleague, Mrs Fedeli, to put the matter in the proper places. However, Mr President, too many times we have been insulted in our personal dignity and the Senate Presidency or the Senate bodies have taken no sanctioning position towards those who have abandoned themselves and are abandoning themselves daily to behaviors that are not from the Senate Chamber and not even from a tavern. They are behaviors from suburban taverns, where not only the wine circulates and not even those substances found in the grocery store, but only the substances found in the shadow of some avenues. And then, Mr President, I ask you to restore the democratic order in this House, which is not only the respect of the Rules of Procedure, but it is the respect of all of us and there cannot be a colleague who gets up and insults you, who represents us all and who needs our solidarity, but does not even allow himself to insult each of us. All too often I've heard you say, "You suck," "You suck," "You suck at your management," too often I've heard that we were thieves or had morally questionable behaviors. This is no longer acceptable, Mr President: either you take over the situation and lead this House towards respect for the dignity of everyone, our colleagues in the first place. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and AP(NCD-UDC)]] Or we don't move on. I already said that the other day: I feel in crisis, I do not want to participate in the gazzarre that daily starts in this House, particularly as the time of the news approaches, because we must also tell ourselves that, Mr President. I call on the colleague who talks downstairs or behind to respect what I said earlier. We intervene when we have the word, not the word of others. In conclusion, there can be no groups in this House that have the privilege of sanctioning the behaviour of others. I cannot accept - and you, Mr President, should have taken a stand immediately - that somewhere there is an invitation to send a colleague out. Those groups and colleagues have no right to request expulsion. Any disciplinary expulsion may be sanctioned by you or the Presidency Council. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and AP(NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u361	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u362	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u363	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, on this path and in this debate, but also on other occasions, we have listened to words and words and we have seen gestures and gestures. I think that the drama will be what Senator Buemi said before, that is the reading that will be given by the news and newspapers: the search for journalists to make tomorrow's headlines, at this moment, is exactly on what gesture was made by Senator Barani. This, unfortunately, is what we will have to endure between today and tomorrow. I therefore propose an institutional pact, Mr President, which will lead us to conclude this debate without swearing or gestating, because there was not only Barani's gestac, on which I will return, but there have also been acts of threat in this House, aimed at members of other groups or members of the Government. I don't want to remember them all, but we all remember them. If there is this pact, it also provides for a mechanism of self-discipline, in the name of which I ask Senator Barani - whom I do not see here - from man to man and from senator to senator, to stay outside the Chamber for today. It is a sense of education and respect: to the attempt of self-justification that he tried to give, that is to say to have been misunderstood, for what I understood, asking them that they saw the gesture directly, it seems a bit complicated. The gesture was and was unacceptable. It can escape, it can happen and it has already happened. If there is then a minimum of self-discipline, let us men, male Senator Barani, begin to give an example: Stay out of the Chamber, it was wrong. I think it is a gesture of respect for everyone, even those who have suffered a gesture that they did not deserve. If Barani stays out today, and I hope he does so - we will see him again tomorrow - I hope that for the next 15 days, we will all be firmly anchored in institutional politeness and self-discipline that should raise the quality of this House for the benefit of all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u364	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u365	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u366	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I can only endorse Vice-President Fedeli's request to convene a Presidency Council and I would also like to thank Senator Romani for his words, but I would not like him to turn his attention away from what has happened. In my opinion, it is good that Senator Barani believes, to a cautious extent - can we say so already or is someone scared in here? - stay out of the Chamber until a Presidency Council is convened. If this is a problem for the votes, since there is also a secret vote, I will remain outside the Chamber, at the same time as Senator Barani. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, I do not think it appropriate for you, Mr President, to allow Senator Barani to remain also because you have listened to the speeches of senators, also of other groups, and therefore you already have the certainty that Senator Barani has committed those gestures and, moreover, you are certain that another Senator has committed them too. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, Mr President, I demand from you that you tell us when you will meet the Presidency Council and that you keep Senator Barani out of this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u367	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u368	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u369	D'ANNA (AL-A). Mr President, I would not like anyone here to call the Sanhedrin, having already identified responsibility and responsibility. If Barani was wrong, let him be charged with the penalty that is due to him and I would advise him to offer an apology in advance, because excuses are not a gesture of weakness, even when it is abundantly provoked. There are two types of violence, the one that is proposed to others, the irration, the mouths, interrupt Senator Falanga who has the right to carry out his intervention in general silence and composure and there are the faults of reaction, which are always serious [[Comments of Senator Nugnes]] Since Senator Barani is a doctor, a good person and not one who comes from the trench or from the harbours, it is not correct for someone to take advantage of this foul of reaction to throw behind himself what Buemi just said, about the systematic unfairness towards other speakers, on the part of certain subjects, who do not respect either the parliamentary dynamics or the respect that each of us owes to others. So, shock can be repaired with excuses, but hypocrisy can't. In fact, I do not believe that on hypocrisy or worse - I have heard the high lai of many colleagues - we can build that crisp and that covenant between gentlemen to which Senator Romans called us. We must be aware that everyone has the right to say and vote in accordance with their own decisions and determinations, without even being mocked or given to the web, because there is also this: this is also immoral, hypocritical and incorrect and this also happens outside this House. Mr President, I believe that your task is very difficult, not so much because we cannot adapt to the correct and loyal behaviour that is due to this House and to the senators, but because I believe that there are two types of people in this House: those who believe in the parliamentary and democratic institution, as is the Senate, and others who believe that this institution, delegitimized and offended, can be replaced by other ways of participation of the people in the life of the nation. Since this is accessible to all, I believe that if you are to be urged, Mr President, it is not to forget that those within the institutions cannot be allowed to have extra-parliamentary behavior. To insult this institution and who composes it, by ending the debate and the confrontation with the harbours, to which Buemi referred before, is a far more serious and darker gesture than what Barani may have done. I ask that the film as a whole be examined, because we could see what Barani did and what the others who turned to our desks when Senator Falanga spoke. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] What is real is rational. Barani is not a psychopath and he is not a man of trivie; he will also be wrong and will pay the tale of his guilt, but no one can say in here, passing a hand on the conscience, that there have been no intemperances and provocations.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u370	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u371	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u372	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to remind this House that we have often talked about feminicide, about the composition of the regional councils with the pink quotas. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I'd like to hear from Senator D'Anna whether or not he made gestures. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rizzotti]] Putting a swear word or gesture on the same level as those that have been made is quite different. I understand that we are raising our voices in this House; we are raising them all a little. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. We don't! BOTTICS (M5S). However, I believe that no one has ever made such a gesture. I therefore renew your request to convene the Presidency Council because you cannot put a swear word and such a gesture on the same level. It is as if I look at someone and do so (Senator Bottici mimes the gesture of slitting the throat) : it is quite different, so let's not confuse the plans, please. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u373	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u374	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u375	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is difficult to speak after what has happened and try to say something that has not already been said by my fellow Members, with whom I share a large part of the speeches that have been made. I also think that this Senate cannot be transformed from the square, as someone called it - Buemi made ugly comparisons that I do not share; I call it the square - to college of educants. Whoever hopes and thinks that in ten minutes, when the debate resumes, there will be the silence of the grave is saying a nonsense knowing to say it. I also think that it is the right - let us call parliamentary practice - of minorities and oppositions to be a little more fiery and intemperant. Everyone's always been. They told me that even in the days when the Constitution was written - the real one, not this one, President - there were very heated debates, with words above the lines. I also think, however, that at the moment when a man makes a joke or a vulgar gesture like what we have seen in many, at the address of a woman, he disqualifies himself. There can be a verbal debate. I compared myself, even harshly, often with some colleagues, even of the 5 Star Movement, and we always said to each other what we thought, but certain gestures leave them out; they must stay absolutely outside. I say more. We didn't animate ourselves, we didn't ask anything when my colleague, Senator Barani's friend, yesterday made unrepeatable gestures against my Vice President. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] I think, however, that if there is to be respect among people, there must also be respect for our Rules of Procedure, Mr President, if you do not respect them, you do not respect them and they are trampled on the Rules of Procedure of this House, then everyone can afford to say and do what they want. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] So, Mr President, I would once again ask you (as I did last year without drawing up the Rules of Procedure) to respect it in this House and at a time when some senators, both in majority and in opposition, point out to you that there are articles of the Rules of Procedure that must be respected, you must do the pleasure of enforcing them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Otherwise we cannot take off our jacket or tear our clothes because certain things are said and done. Firstly, there is a regulation, there is a constitution and you must enforce them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Like it or not! The opposition likes it or doesn't like it by the majority; the majority likes it or doesn't like it by the opposition there is a regulation. Do not open your arms, Mr President, that you know very well what I am referring to; you know that very well. You begin to enforce the Rules of Procedure; we will all respect the Rules of Procedure and I believe that there will be even more serenity in this House in dealing with the measures and serenity is what I urge everyone to apply from now on. First of all, you, Mr President, with these Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Thank you and be serene, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u376	Don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u377	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u378	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u379	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have not seen the episode we are dealing with, but if things have happened as we are told, it is a very serious incident and I believe that President Fedeli is right when he asks for the Senate Presidency to deal with it. I believe that the Senate has all the tools, including technology, to understand and ascertain in a rigorous way how things have happened. If Senator Barani has committed what he says he has committed, I believe that the sanctions provided for in the Rules of Procedure must be applied objectively and rigorously. However, Mr President, I would also ask you to meet the Presidency Council as soon as possible because I believe that this House needs to know, that it needs to know the decision. I believe that this can help to reduce a tension that I consider understandable under these circumstances. I would add, Mr President, that it has been a long time, I could say almost since the beginning of the parliamentary term, that this House is seeing riots, many times of real riots, and many times - as all the Members who have spoken so far have said - here in this House the tones have risen in an absolutely improper way for a Parliamentary House. I therefore support President Romani's request. President Romani is right: we all need self-discipline; we all need to know where we are and we need to act accordingly. However, I would also ask you, Mr President, to apply the Rules of Procedure very strictly, because I do not think it is possible for us to tolerate in this House continuing violations of the way in which Parliament has to do its work. You see, when, repeatedly - and in today's sitting, several times - this House loses control (the House loses control, our House seems to be the antechamber of a railway station: everyone speaks, does something else, asks and is given the floor two or three times to the members of the same Group), I must say - and I am sorry - that I disapprove of it. I believe that the Group of the Party of European Socialists has a very substantial self-control, but I must say that, in the aftermath of the disorder, it is fatal that accidents can eventually occur. I believe that the Presidency can help us a lot to prevent - because we have to prevent this happening - these facts, and that is only possible if we manage to maintain a discipline in this House. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, if you can and if you think, to convene the Bureau very quickly. Finally, I would like to see a very precise rigour in the conduct of our work in this House. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u380	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u381	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u382	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, an hour ago, there were unprecedented events in my memory. One thing is political criticism, political conflict, sometimes even - let us say it too - the breakdown in iniuria, in offense, gestures of physical conflict, which are part of the history of our Parliament; another thing is the downfall - if the fact has happened - at times of almost triviality. We are giving, at this moment, an image to the country not adherent to what should be - I think - the common feeling of the Italians. We are self-forming, we are carrying out a historical reform, and we are doing so because we are in harmony with the need for modernisation of our country. And I believe it is our duty, this responsibility, to leave history the image of a Senate that has been one of the pillars of the history of our Republic and of our legislative process. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]] So, Mr President, when certain behaviors - and I regret to point out this - are put in place by a fellow Parent Company, which even represents a parliamentary group, it speaks on its behalf and engages it in political positions and explanations of vote, I believe that this is, in itself, a slightly more serious matter in terms of the disciplinary and even political assessment of what has happened. And it marks a moment - I hope - of verification of what must be the model of continuation of our parliamentary activity. I take this, I appreciate and I take the invitation of my friend Paolo Romani to ensure that the debate continues with the consensual absence of Senator Barani from the Chamber, in order to decompress and give even a minimum (only minimal) just recognition of the mistake made by his colleague towards the 5 Star Movement Group, the women of that Group and - I think - the women of this Parliament, because they are acts that offend. At the same time, however, I believe it is also right to ensure that, with the Bureau that you are calling for as soon as possible, we can address the issue of a methodology for managing interventions and work, always under your high leadership, which allows a debate in accordance with the needs of the content that must be part of the parliamentary political debate. In fact, in recent times - and I say this to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement - a spiral of excessive, verbal and dynamic disputes has arisen within our debate, which prevents the Assembly from reflecting, thinking and confronting itself politically. Is that an opposition? It's not up to me to evaluate, but it certainly wasn't like that in the past. I also hope that this aspect, with the possible measures to be taken by the Presidency Council towards Mr Barani, will also induce the 5 Star Movement Group to reflect on the behavioral facts of individual, less violent colleagues in addressing verbal and also characteristic issues, because we need an opposition in a Parliament, an opposition is necessary; it is physiological to parliamentary democracy the role of the opposition that is both a stimulus and also a proposition of content for a complete dialectic that allows the legislative process to work best. Mr President, I therefore believe that, according to your assessment, we should bring the Presidency Council together as soon as possible on the day that you decide, to take advantage of Mr Paolo Romani's proposal to hope that Mr Barani will not work with us on this evening, just out of respect for the colleague who has been offended. And, at the same time, we have to ask ourselves questions so that the continuation of the legislature can obey different and more ethical rules that - let's say so - if this reform goes into effect, they deliver to the country a Senate different from what is being presented in these days and that we should cancel quickly in our memory. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u383	. The debate on this issue is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u384	I greet the mayor and the delegation of the Municipality of Pietra de' Giorgi, in the Province of Pavia, who have attended an absolutely particular moment of our work, which will immediately resume their more own function, which is to discuss and vote. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u385	I welcome the call from all the group leaders and all those who have spoken. [[Senator Fattori points out that she wants to intervene]] Senator Fattori, your parent spoke. I said that we have closed this debate; a specific request has been made. If it is personal, it will intervene at the end of the sitting. [[Brusio.]] I'm talking. Please don't interrupt. Let's get something straight. Given that the escalation has reached unacceptable points for civil coexistence - I am not even saying for the House, because it is something really excessive compared to civil coexistence, and we are not talking about the Senate Chamber - the rigour will be absolute. I therefore call for the full cooperation of all senators in the self-discipline that has been called for. [[Applause from the groups AP(NCD-UDC), PD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] I would also ask the group leaders to do something within their groups to try to prevent it, even before naturally strict measures can be taken to prevent it from participating in the work of this House, which is the best that can be done. I believe that all those who are Members of the House who maintain the order of this House (the Quaestors, the entire Bureau and the parliamentary assistants) will also be able to give us the best possible cooperation so that we can really restore the order, having arrived at these levels, and use the House for the function for which it was designed and built, which is to discuss, vote and exercise the legislative function that we are preparing to resume as best we can. Given the time required for the investigations, to acquire audiovisual footage and to be able to reproduce it, I decide to convene the Presidency Council on Monday at 1 p.m. The decisions that are a member of the Presidency's Board of Directors will be taken in that place if - as I believe - the facts can be established. If then there will be relationships in order to better understand what happened and that many have not seen, including me, it would be useful. It would be an excellent form of collaboration to have something on which to base the search for images that can comfort or not what happened. That concludes the matter. I repeat, Monday at 1 p.m., with audiovisual footage and the support of reports, we will evaluate and be, as always, and as we have done at other times, rigorous in the evaluation of behavior. We shall now resume the vote. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,600, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators, for the admissible part substantially identical to amendments 2,879c, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators, 2,2694c, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, 2,2695c, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators, 2,601, presented by Senator D'Alì and other senators, and 2.8, presented by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on the Government representative to comment on the sub-amendments tabled to amendment 2.204.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u386	Mr President, on Amendments 2,204/1 and 2,204/100 (text 2) the Government is back in the Chamber. I am therefore against the other sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u387	What is the Government's opinion on amendment 2,991 (text 3)? Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. Mr President, I did not mention this because it was not a sub-amendment, but we are also back in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u388	Amendments 2.204/200 to 2.204/25 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.204/27.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u389	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u390	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u391	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask the presenter for clarification. I read in the amendment: 'on the indication of voters, by direct vote and on a regional basis'. I have always understood suffrage as referring to electoral moments. If the presenter could clarify this period, I will decide what attitude to take on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Romani, would you like to clarify Senator Calderoli's request? ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Senator Calderoli, direct suffrage means voters vote. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u392	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,204/27, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.204/28 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.204/29, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,204/31, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.204/32, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2.204/33.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u393	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u394	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u395	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, with this sub-amendment we wanted to try to offer a possible solution to give the voters a real content and a concrete way to really express themselves. In addition to Mr Calderoli's perplexity, which has just been expressed, the words spoken in this House in the past hours are even more significant when Senator Chiti has been asked how they intend to make the voters express themselves, by what means. This is one of the possible ways - in a constitutional reform process, for us, they have the same value - and we consider it particularly important, as we have already said on several occasions. We have offered this way to the constructive debate in this House and also to the evaluation of the Government, as well as of all the parliamentary groups. We have offered the opportunity, without having to destroy the system of Article 2, to find a possible mediation thanks to this text which, unlike Senator Augello, who was forced to withdraw his text this morning, we are strongly defending. Here is indicated a modality, obviously postponed to an ordinary law that must very precisely regulate it. These are the primary ones, which have taken on a particular political value, as well as being able to grasp the will of many citizens, and which the Democratic Party has experienced first in our country. In our opinion, if well regulated, they can become a possible instrument of Italian democracy at a time when the history and strength of the parties are behind us and before us there is an unknown within which, however, important decision-making processes are formed, which are increasingly removed from the choice of citizens. As I said in a previous speech of mine, we are living in an era in which we are obviously looking for new ways to enable representation to be alive, real and close to the citizens; representation that we cannot see regulated by passages that escape the control of the citizens or that, worse, refer to the history of a democracy, such as the one we have known in particular in the first Republic, where all the processes were known and took place among the people who accessed the life of the parties by their choice and conviction and who, instead, today have lost this possibility. And they lost it for reasons that I do not think it is perhaps this time to remember, but that the history of representation, not only political and institutions, but also intermediate bodies, those that we should start a process of renewal, have suffered and continue to suffer. This, however, does not exempt us, especially as representatives of the citizens without the bond of mandate that we always call to our voters, from finding formulas that start the country in a process of modern democracy, perhaps different from the past, but that we have the obligation to experiment, mutualing from other countries different formulas, that may convince us and can be easily adapted to the social, political or cultural composition of our country. The simple citizen will be able to express himself through the primaries, if well regulated and if far from those shadows that we have often seen, instead, stand heavily on the short life of the primaries of the Democratic Party. We want good primaries, in order to allow citizens, on the occasion of the vote on the future Senate, to still have the possibility to indicate at least the people who must represent them (maybe even programs and proposals were possible). That is why we are asking the House for a vote in favour of this amendment and we are very sorry that the Government has expressed its opinion against it, because it was nothing more than a good way of moving towards cultural and political mediation in this House and, above all, towards a rapprochement with those voters who will soon or later lose everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u396	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,204/33, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, until the words "medesimi organi" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.204/33 and amendments 2.204/34 to 2.204/39 are therefore excluded. Amendments 2,204/40 to 2,204/44 are inadmissible. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,204/45, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,204/46, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2,204/1, which is essentially identical to Amendments Nos 2,991 (text 3) and 2,204/100 (text 2) on which the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u397	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u398	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u399	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I agree with your position, because in the end the three amendments have been reworded in almost the same form. Mr President, I have heard many times these days about the famous 85 million amendments. I would like to point out that, on Article 1, I have left a few units and that in the end, on Article 2, between inadmissibility and withdrawals that we have made, there is one remaining. So, I don't think this can be interpreted as a obstructive attempt. If you said yesterday that Amendments 2,903 and 2,906, although in the second line, were inadmissible, I must say that you did very well, because they were indeed a trap. In Trentino-Alto Adige there would have been, in fact, senators for life elected by the citizens. And maybe this isn't even paradoxical, because there are senators for appointment life and, therefore, maybe those elected by the people would be even a little better. Mr Zeller would certainly be very keen on that role, which I think he would not mind. However, what was then a trap, while what we are facing at the moment is a truly better sub-amendment than the original text, because it provides for the preservation of linguistic minorities. The ways in which regional councillors become such in Trentino-Alto Adige are different from those of the rest of the national landscape, because he becomes regional advisor who was elected to the Provincial Council of Trento and Bolzano. In turn, the electoral systems, which are certainly based more on proportionality, but in the municipalities, have a direct election of mayors, while the Council is on a proportional basis, sometimes even inconsistent with what is happening. If we go to assign two representatives to the province of Trento and two to the Province of Bolzano, this amendment prevents there being - I quote them as an example, not favouring one or the other - four senators all of Italian language, or four all of German language or - although it seems unlikely - Ladin language. The aim of a safeguard of linguistic minorities is precisely to ensure an ethnic plurality in the representation of Trentino-Alto Adige. I would like to thank the Minister for giving the House a very cautious discharge in respect of the opinion, but I hope that it will be a real remission and that no indications will be given to the Group leaders in the opposite direction, and not because the amendment is not positive, but only because it is for the sake of giving nothing to the opposition. If the dialogue that has been called for by my colleague, Mr Romani, but also by many parties, can begin with a minimum sign of openness to opposition, the opposition will responsibly change its attitude to the articles to come.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u400	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u401	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u402	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I must say very quickly that the real regulatory scope of this amendment is essentially nothing or almost nothing. Senator Calderoli, rightly, recalled the specific discipline for the Province of Bolzano and Valle D'Aosta, which speaks to itself: in article 40, paragraph 6, which is not modified, there is a similar forecast, just to avoid that there are senators of a single linguistic group, etc. For the other regions, it is practically impossible, since in any case the law will have to take into account a whole series of criteria, the choices of voters and gender quotas, but the number of senators will be very low, so I cannot imagine how such a thing could be realized. Among other things, there are constitutional margins, the limits of Article 6 and Law No 482 of 1992 and, therefore, there really would be no structural need for this further amendment. That said, in principle, is clearly something positive, although I do not see how it could be realized. Our Group - or at least a good part of its members - will, however, vote in favour of the principle, although we know that the regulatory scope - alas - could hardly have a real concrete relapse (if not in some possible rare circumstance, perhaps in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, but I imagine that it is difficult too). So, it's a yes to the principle. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u403	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u404	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u405	TONINI (PD). Mr President, we welcome Mr Calderoli's non-obstructional and non-instrumental nature of this amendment. For once, linguistic minorities are not used in operations that are also difficult, from the point of view of Italian sense and grammar, to re-introduce other elements, in a more or less surreptitious way. This is an amendment that says in the light of the sun what it wants and proposes a real, real issue. And of course we have asked ourselves a little bit about Senator Calderoli's proposal, which in principle we cannot but agree with. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). But? TONINI (PD). No one can say more than I do: I was elected to a college in Trentino, where the linguistic minorities of Trentino are present: the Ladins, the Mochens and the Cimbrians. Attention to linguistic minorities has always been an important point in the Democratic Party's policy. However, as my colleague, Mr Palermo, has said, with a great deal of intellectual honesty, what we all recognize, the regulatory scope of this amendment is practically nothing, in the sense that the guarantees of linguistic minorities are contained in Article 6 of the Constitution, that is, among the fundamental principles, and wherever it has been possible - even in this reform - to introduce elements of specific guarantee, and this has been done. So the regulatory scope of the amendment is practically nothing. This rule, however, poses risks for the drafting of the electoral law, which we must build and which will be complex, because it must take account of political pluralism, since we wanted a Senate based on a proportional representation of the institutions it represents and, in particular, of the Regions. And then there is the rule on gender equality, according to which the Senate cannot be uniform from the point of view of gender, but it will have to be able to represent both sexes, as has been achieved in recent years. Therefore, to introduce in such a compelling way, using the word "safeguarding," also the theme of linguistic minorities, risks being a promise that then, technically, we are not able to maintain. We think that, when we talk about the Constitution, we need first of all serious things: I am speaking naturally for us and I do not question the seriousness of the intention of Mr Calderoli's proposal. That is why we shall be voting against this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u406	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u407	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u408	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, clearly this vote is absolutely irrelevant to the scope of the votes we had asked for on certain amendments at yesterday's sitting. As Mr Romani rightly pointed out, in the first passage of the bill in the Senate, the secret vote had been a sort of spy element, which had brought out the suffering of a large part of the members of this Assembly, members of all political groups, and also of those sitting on my left, who had voted, as well as of the Democratic Party. This had enabled this suffering to be demonstrated, through a vote that was far from the eyes of the President of the Council, which required time and pace, through his emissary present here in the Chamber. In the light of the debate that has taken place, in the light of the speeches made by Senator Chiti and other colleagues, it is clear that the whole debate and this possibility have been somewhat anesthetized. Therefore, the secret vote no longer has the value it had before and the government itself, in doubt, has returned to the Assembly. In particular, however, this is not just an instrumental amendment. It is true - as Mr Tonini said before - that the protection of linguistic minorities is provided for in our Constitution, but here we are completely changing one of the two chambers, the Senate. And in saying how the Senate will be composed, we're sending regional advisors to elect senators. Well, these are those regional councillors that we had to, indeed, you had to impose with a law - which, however, perhaps will never find its application - even respect or the introduction of rules to ensure gender equality (you will remember that it was recently adopted in this House). We are talking about those regional councils to which you had imposed, with laws, an electoral system that provided for the direct election of the President of the Region; a system that provided that the office of President of the Region could be held for no more than two mandates, and that these regional councillors have disregarded. I remember the Lombardy Region, which allowed my colleague Formigoni to remain in office for four terms. Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Perfectly legal. CRIMI (M5S). And this was possible simply by disregarding the application of a rule. Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). No! CRIMI (M5S). Now, in front of these regional councils - since it has been said that they are perhaps, in this legislature, the worst we have seen in the history of our country - it would be appropriate to give a precise indication of the limits, guarantees and instruments that will have to put in place in order to respect those principles of the Constitution written before, because they are probably not so accustomed to handling this type of situation. I believe, therefore, that we must introduce in this article the protection of linguistic minorities, which will then also be transmitted in the national law that one day will see the light - I am laughed at, because I believe that it will never see the light, but I want to imagine that it will be approved, perhaps, one day - and that it will have to provide for the way in which the senators are elected by the regional Councils. That law should provide for mechanisms within it to protect linguistic minorities, otherwise it will do nothing. And it is not said that that law, knowing also the colleagues who sit in this House, respects the dictates of the Constitution, and therefore the cardinal principles just mentioned by my colleague Tonini. I don't think so, because on more than one occasion you violated them. So, perhaps, it is useful to reiterate that in that law that you will approve - perhaps - everything will have to be provided for in the previous articles of the Constitution, and the way in which language minorities can be protected will also have to be provided, as should also something about gender equality, and more specifically, since this law will have to be done by you or those who will be there afterwards (as long as one day you do it). Now, the value of the secret vote is now anesthetized, also because I see empty benches also in the Democratic Party of people who had shown some discomfort with this law (there are few left); therefore perhaps we should have tabled a further amendment - which, however, would have been declared inadmissible - in order to guarantee the Dem minorities, in addition to the linguistic ones. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u409	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u410	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u411	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, first of all I would like to subscribe to Amendment 2.204/100 (text 2) because I am not one of the signatories. I shall vote in favour of this amendment for a very simple reason, because I believe that the guarantees for linguistic minorities in this country are not there. I think there are guarantees for some linguistic minorities, but this country, this state in twenty-five years has not yet ratified the Charter of Minority Languages, the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. It is a country that has a articulation that involves the presence of linguistic minorities among the most numerous in Europe and whenever it is to regulate on these issues it excludes in a particular way some of these. It recognizes as linguistic minorities those which refer to linguistic strains of foreign countries, but it does not recognize those which instead were born and originally belonged to that pre-unitarian state from which the Italian State takes its cues. I want to remind everyone that this branch of Parliament is elected on the basis of regional districts; and it has always - not since tomorrow, always - represented local and regional communities. Even, originally there were provincial one-name colleges. At the very moment when I was a candidate and then elected senator of the Republic I made a personal commitment. Therefore, I feel committed to my community in every circumstance in which there is the possibility to assert the rights of linguistic minorities all of this country, to support positively anyone present this type of legal provision. And I appreciate what the government did. So we try on linguistic minorities not to make an instrumental political operation. If this Parliament, this Senate, also because of the attitude that the Government has taken, thinks that it is the right of linguistic minorities to obtain representation in what will be the Senate of the autonomous and the regions I think that this amendment and all the amendments that have this type of reference, also because of the willingness manifested by the Government and not in any way endangering the overall legislative construction, is approved. [[Applause from the Mixed-Sel Group and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u412	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u413	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u414	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will ask you for a few more minutes, especially since the amendment in question also refers to the other amendment with a secret vote which bears my signature and which will therefore - as it were - be reabsorbed. The arguments that have been put forward should have convinced us of the genuineness of this proposal. It has been known since yesterday, when the reformulation was made, that the secret vote admitted on this occasion has nothing to do with strange contraptions that want to introduce the direct election of senators, rather than other changes to constitutional reform. We understand that from your change in eligibility. However, at this point, we really want to talk, discuss, deal with together, also give a clear signal to the country that if we talk about reforms and issues concerning minorities or equal opportunities between men and women (we have just a few minutes ago faced a scaly episode) it has constituted itself, it widens the majority, it makes it possible to modify the Constitution, majority and opposition together. I would also like to ask Mr Boschi's attention to this. Obviously, after Senator Tonini's explanation of vote, we do not expect much, but we expect a reflection from the senators and the government on the opportunity. You see, Senator Tonini, you pointed out that the amendment would be of unnecessary legislative scope, because it does nothing, especially since constitutional guarantees are already contained in the Constitutional Charter. But, Senator Tonini, just as I would remind you that we have laid down Article 51 of the Constitution - the one in force - which, I remind myself, reads: The Republic shall promote equal opportunities between women and men by means of appropriate measures. Well, Senator Tonini, if this clear article is enough, then I wonder why we put, precisely in this constitutional amendment, the same reference to the duty to respect equal opportunities in the indications of the rules that will have to regulate the election of the Chamber of Deputies or of the Regions themselves, referring the whole to an ordinary law, but framing and defining in a clear and clear way a constitutional principle and reaffirming it. If so we have considered in that circumstance it is because, in a clear and clear way, on these aspects, in every circumstance, the principle that ordinary laws, then, will implement must be sanctioned. I repeat to the senators of this House. This is a free vote, it is a time when we must give the country the signal that we change the Constitution respecting the opinion of linguistic minorities, where these are present. There are no underground pitfalls, there is nothing else, except that with this the Government does not want to mark a further line of division between the majority and the opposition, which presents itself with the will to participate, starting from this amendment, in the constituent process. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u415	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u416	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u417	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am speaking in dissent from the Group, which has announced its vote in favour of the amendment, not because it does not understand the reasons of principle which lead colleagues of the Regions to vote in favour of this call, but because there is a more general problem in our country, which concerns all minorities (already others have spread on this aspect), but there is also a problem that concerns some majorities, who do not hear or whose requests are not satisfied. Therefore, to recall - for the truth, even in a redundant way - this principle seems to us to be a force. Constitutional safeguards, in fact, are provided, as my colleague Mr Palermo said, also in other articles of our Constitution, so we consider this emphasis excessive. I therefore declare the Socialist Senators' vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u418	I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 2.204/1, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators, essentially identical to amendments 2.991 (text 3), tabled by Senator Candiani, and 2.204/100 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.204/47, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,204/48, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.204/2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u419	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u420	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u421	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, since virtually nothing has changed, I believe that little can be achieved even through amendment 2.204/2, which will be voted on with a clear vote, but I want it to be clear that this is the last chance for Renzo's chickens not to be switched to Renzi's turkeys. We have made it quite clear, partly because of its inadmissibility, that the measure does not provide for any direct election of senators, to the extent that, where the words 'elected by universal suffrage' had been used, the amendment would have been declared inadmissible. The phrase "in accordance with the choice of voters" has taken over, so we have moved from the split of the atom to that of the neutrino: we have managed to divide the vote, which implies a choice and the attribution of a vote exceeded a threshold leading to the election; that is, we have managed to make the citizen choose and have the Regional Council elected. However, we are trying to get the idea across that it will be the citizen who elects. Firstly, of the ninety-five elected senators, the twenty-one mayors are already elected on their own by the regional councillors, without any indication from the citizen. In addition, perhaps someone has not noticed that any type of amendment which had a part that was going to affect Article 39, concerning the transitional provisions, has been declared inadmissible, because it is considered to be double-reading compliant by the Chamber and Senate and therefore inemendable. What is set out in Article 39? Well, there's just the teasing there. I talked about the lentil dish, then I found out that the tripe dish is also passed, now you need some sweetbread or something second and then lunch is really served. In the context of the first application, I add, unnecessarily and extraordinarily (but it is the fat) - and until the entry into force of the law referred to in Article 57, sixth paragraph, of the Constitution, as amended by Article 2 of this Constitutional Law, for the election of the Senate of the Republic, in the Regional Councils and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, each council member can vote for a single list of candidates formed by advisers and mayors of their respective territories. Translated: there is a list blocked for both regional advisors and the mayor. The citizens do not indicate anything. The regional councillors currently in office have been elected to make regional advisers, and that is all, and no one has given them ownership of the right of active and passive electorate to be senators. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Then they add, again in paragraph 4 of the above mentioned article: Until the date of entry into force of the law referred to in the sixth paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution, as amended by Article 2 of this Constitutional Law, the first constitution of the Senate of the Republic shall take place, in accordance with the provisions of this Article... I mean, they elect him in the house. But in paragraph 6, they say: The law referred to in the sixth paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution... shall be approved within six months of the date of the election of the Chamber of Deputies referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article. That is, it's done in the next legislature. However, this little norm is not used: as long as that law is not made, it will be valid for all the times that you will go to the renewal of the Senate of the Republic. I am really curious to think of regional councillors, who have elected themselves senators, who will have to write a law for which senators choose citizens. But no one will ever see that law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group),]] and we will continue to see the advisers who share, perhaps in rotation, the fact that they come to take paid holidays in Rome. I believe, frankly (I have no longer heard it, but I would like to hear it in this House) that when a person does well the mayor and the regional councillor, it is already good that he can do only that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Not to go back and forth and do no good either one or the other! What does my sub-amendment say? It is fine what Senator Finocchiaro says in her amendment, where she refers to that law, but in the absence of it, the current electoral law applies. There are ninety-five senators to elect, and even for the modalities and functions everything remains as you set out in this reform of the Constitution. But if the future senators do not make the electoral law to allow the citizen to be able to choose at least who will have to go to be the senator, the current electoral law is used, that is, a proportional law with the preference expressed in the Consultellum hesitated by the Consulta. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u422	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u423	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u424	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, this amendment would correct those criticisms which I have just made of the possible negligence and omission in forming a law which would make it possible to define in a certain way how senators are elected by the Regional Councils. I repeat, from our point of view it is an institutional obnoxiousness, but so you wanted it and so unfortunately it will be. This amendment would allow us to identify the transitional rule because, as many have just said, the main problem was perhaps also manifested by those who intervened before me, defending the establishment of the law, but highlighting the various criticalities. One of the problems is that, in the first part-session, at the time when this measure will be approved and if, unfortunately, the referendum were to confirm it (which I hope will not happen), one must expect that, following the adoption of a law such as this, that it will reform the Constitution and establish that there is no longer the Senate as we know it, the day after the President of the Republic will dissolve the Senate. That's clear. It seems to me a natural passageway, which many people may not have thought. The day after the final promulgation, following possible approval by a confirmed referendum, this Senate no longer exists in our Constitution and therefore the President of the Republic is entitled to the immediate dissolution. Surely to proceed only to that of the Senate would be perhaps limiting, because also the other House, which from this reform is completely redesigned, should be immediately dissolved. Perhaps this is the objective of this Government: to send home most of those who have opposed it in recent years. I also understand when someone from the Democratic Party says that it is at the end of his political path, which has been perhaps even illustrious: he says so because he may have seen who this political path will take it from him as a result of a series of obstacles put in this path. This is the situation in which we will find ourselves and, immediately, the first step will be to elect this new Senate. And this new Senate will be elected by the Regional Councils, which do not know by which law they will elect it. Perhaps you think you will approve it between the last approval and the referendum? It seems difficult to me, because the referendum makes the law final and, therefore, you cannot do it before, but perhaps just prepare it. I believe that there will be a short circuit between the time this constitutional reform is approved, so it will operate in the Constitution (and not in any law) and the Senate will no longer exist as we know it, and the time when the President of the Republic will have to dissolve the Senate. At the same time, a national law must be made, by the two chambers among other things, with which the rules for the election of senators and regional councils must be established. There's a short circuit at this juncture. We don't know what's going to happen. Perhaps the great lawyers, far more experienced than I, who sometimes feel provoked by some of our speeches, will tell us. In the doubt that we do not know what will happen and waiting for this national law perhaps it is necessary that it be established how this new Senate should be elected in the transitional phase, with the designed functions that you wanted (that we do not share but that you wanted), with the amount of senators that you wanted (that we do not share but that you wanted) and with this institutional structure. In the doubt, then, that you do not get to promulgate that law that you inserted in the sixth paragraph of this article. This doubt must be considered, because you cannot create a law (mostly a constitutional reform) without having the certainty (and lawyers teach it) of what happens in every situation. You can't leave to the aleatority of a law that must be made by a Senate or a Political Chamber, that may not reach agreement on the contents and maybe not even get to promulgate it. You cannot leave this void: I hope that this is clear and that you share it. There must be a safeguard clause, a limit case: the case that the Senate or the House, for whatever reason, fail to make that law provided for in the sixth paragraph. Many of you hope instead that it will be done and that inside it contains all those things that have been assured you. However, there is a doubt that this law is not being made. This is not a political requirement of those who propose the amendment or of the 5 Star Movement; this is a logical requirement, because you have to know where you fall, you have to know what you do in every situation, you have to be sure of how this Senate will be elected if that law is not made or is not delayed or arrives because you do not reach an agreement. Anything can happen: in this Parliament we have seen so many changes in the shirt that this should worry everyone. I therefore believe that it is necessary to include a clause allowing that pepper and that pungolo to be put in place for the law to be made (in fact the risk is that the Senate will be elected by the old electoral law, the one in force): this is the pungolo that would allow that Parliament to write as soon as possible the law provided for by the sixth paragraph. I believe that it is essential to include it, and for this reason we will vote firmly in favour, also because that law, the electoral law in force, is perhaps the best electoral law that we could have, especially if we consider that for the Senate the only electoral law in force is the Consultellum, since you did not even have the willingness to make a new electoral law for the Senate, in the doubt that this reform does not go well. I remember that, if this reform does not succeed (there is also an element that you have not assessed, which is the referendum), if the referendum does not confirm this constitutional reform, you have not thought of making an electoral law of fall, a parachute law, of emergency. You haven't thought about it, because you only made Italicum for the House, assuming that this law will be passed. Perhaps it will be approved by Parliament, although I still have some doubts, but it is not said that it will be confirmed by the citizens in the referendum. So keep in mind that you haven't even foreseen an electoral law for the Senate. That shows you're not capable. As you are not able to write a constitutional reform that is consistent in its parts, you have not even been able to make an electoral law that would provide for all possible possibilities and cases, such as the one that this constitutional reform does not succeed, which we hope and for which we will fight until the end. We will put all our efforts to ensure that citizens understand that this constitutional reform is the prelude to the arrival of a dictatorship and a new fascism. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u425	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u426	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u427	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I do not agree with Mr Crimes, because I wonder if we are perhaps tired of passing the palette where the dirty government. I don't know if we should let things go... president. Excuse me, are you dissident, Senator Endrizzi? ENDRIZZI (M5S). Yeah, and I'm motivating. I think it is better for me not to vote on this amendment and let it remain so. Then we will be facing, perhaps the House, the need to correct, because here we were not given the opportunity to intervene on other articles that were not those modified in the House. Having said that, I can only note that this constitutional reform is going to remedy the deficits of an electoral law and provides for a law that will heal the deficits of this law. At this point, Mr President, if, in our place, the authors of the Ikea educational booklets had been called here, I think something clearer might have come up. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I shall therefore not vote in favour of this vote, thus releasing the possibility of the President of our group, Mr Castaldi, to vote and I shall sacrifice myself in his place.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u428	Thank you, but Senator Castaldi said that the gesture he put in place was valid for the secret vote, and he kept it, which we give him credit for.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u429	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u430	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u431	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, my explanation of vote is on behalf of my Group in order to express our full support for this text, which, like others, perhaps goes in the direction of trying to bring our contribution, following a path outlined by the majority, and to offer the attention of the House the opportunity to express itself on a text that nevertheless gives a complete certainty to that method of direct participation of citizens in the process that lies within the famous amendment Finocchiaro 2.204. The latter is not only unclear to us, but is extremely complicated and will complicate the lives of many regions, in having to interpret how to make all this possible. Even less can an ordinary law do so, because, as President Chiti reminded us this morning, the autonomy of the Regions lies in the identification of the way in which the elections take place. There are Regions for example that from some legislature have abandoned the route of the list as a majority prize: it is the case of my Veneto Region, that no longer has trace of a list, because even that has been considered not representative of the will of the citizens, which instead is better expressed by a direct vote. I believe that I can also interpret in this way the sub-amendment by Senator Paolo Romani which referred to direct participation and direct suffrage for citizens in voting procedures. I would therefore like this House to be aware of the fact that, as President Calderoli mentioned earlier, perhaps this is the last chance we have in order to give full meaning to a reflection and reasoning on the participation of citizens and their right of choice which, moving from different visions, from different parts and from different perspectives, can lead to a mediation capable of gathering the almost unique thought of the House. That is the mode and has been used to prevent the reopening of a discussion on the elective Senate that it had held in the past months, especially by the minority of the Democratic Party. Nevertheless, I believe that both the Government, which participates in this debate of ours (I am sorry not to see Minister Boschi, to whom I had previously asked to be able to express himself on the text of the primaries, but so much so), and this House can find a summary on a text that seems frankly very simple, banal and guarantor of all rights, including that of seeing affirmed the principle of an electoral law already in force, guarantee for all. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u432	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u433	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u434	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, I would like to say that I will vote in favour of this amendment, but before I give a detailed explanation of the reason for this agreement, I would like to make it clear that it is going to make clear what happens to a text that is not fully integrated, in which shortcomings cannot be solved by simple coordination, but they will still need a substantial revision, even by the Lower House. Before making this last consideration, however, I wanted to return to some of the topics that have been distorted and which are part of the overall assessment of a text such as this. We must not forget that with this reform the Government will keep unchanged the possibility of arriving immediately at the final vote of measures presented even the evening before and will maintain the possibility of issuing decree-laws, which are immediately published in the Official Journal, and it will be the only House to ratify its text. In addition, the Government may declare draft laws urgent - and can do so in virtually any case - which must be voted on within seventy days. This means that a parliamentary funnel will be created and therefore Parliament will not be able to examine the texts. With the constitutional reform under consideration, the Majority Parent may request that each bill be submitted for final approval, with explanations of vote only, and therefore without any proposals for amendment, even if the text is still in the Commission. We are talking about a method of reform that will assign to a single Chamber, and no longer to two, 90% of the legislative capacity: therefore, with the systems just described, a text will become law and the Senate, in case, can at most advise the other House to make some changes. Therefore, only one party will have the majority of the seats, having obtained in the first round less than 20 percent of the votes of the total electorate and having obtained, in the second round, more than 50 percent of the votes, only for an obvious mathematical question, since there are only two political forces present at the ballot and that the majority prize is awarded without any threshold of participation and without any quorum. Perhaps I am strange, but all this seems to me to be a change in the republican form, and then even simple amendments, such as the one before us, tabled by Mr Calderoli, which are intended to heal on a transitional basis, in order to make the path of real strangeness impossible when conditions were not foreseen, must be looked at, in my opinion, as the introduction, ipso facto, of the category of common sense, within the constitutional debate. That is why we voted in favour of the amendment in the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u435	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u436	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u437	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I speak quickly only to point out that, due to a malfunction of the voting mechanism, I voted in the previous secret ballot, but I did not vote. I will not state how I voted, but I would like to point out that I voted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u438	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u439	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u440	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we will vote in favour of this amendment, because it is the last chance to try to interpret and make binding that aspiration which led to the senators of the PD minority, who rightly insisted on direct election, to sign amendment 2,204 at the first signature of Senator Finocchiaro. I say this because it is clear that, with the approval of the sub-amendment under consideration, it would be absolutely possible to ensure that there are no loopholes and that we do not adopt, as I am convinced that unfortunately this will happen, real obstructive practices, which lead to a postponement of the adoption of a specific national ordinary law, which commits the Regions. This would make the famous transitional rule to Article 39 ineffective, because the problem that we all know, compared to the amendment by Senator Finocchiaro that will shortly be put to the vote, lies precisely in the second part that concerns the transitional rule itself. We are a country in which, as we unfortunately know, the transitory risks remaining non-transitional but fixed forever, and this is, in my view, an opportunity. In addition, Mr President, it puts to the attention of all of us - and to this I would like to quote our reasoning - what would have been desirable in declining the overcoming of equal bicameralism, namely a Senate that, with proportional electoral law (so really the place of the pluralistic representation of the country, of all cultural and political instances and minorities), could really have played a role and given a serious and renewed impetus to our Republic. It was not written anywhere, in fact - we have always disputed this - that electing the Senate directly would mean putting it in fact in the condition of having to give political confidence as well. Once clarified in the Constitution that it is the House that gives the confidence, the Senate, instead, directly elected by the citizens and, according to what was our proposal, also with the direct presence of the Presidents of the Region - they yes, true representatives of the Regions because actual bearers of the interest of the Region together with the elected senators - could carry out adequately, in a dialectic at this point between the two Chambers (not a shuttle, but a dialectic) that function of guarantee and control that is all the more necessary the more there is a Chamber that, because of the electoral law that has been approved, the Italicum, will in fact see the cancellation of pluralism, which will be reduced to little more or perhaps a little less than the right of tribune, and where the majority prize will ensure that a party will be able to manage absolutely everything. When we arrive at the question concerning the election of the President of the Republic we will deepen this reasoning even more, but it is clear to all that, precisely with regard to the central question concerning the system of guarantees, and therefore even more so with regard to the election of the guarantee bodies of the Republic, from this point of view, for this mechanism, for that electoral law, for the choices that are being made with the approach of this constitutional reform, will be the party - in today's Italy, President, it is not even the party once, with its dialectic, with its true directions, but a party with only one leader - that will decide everything. One man in command - as we have said many times - is the underlying ideology that accompanies the whole structure of this constitutional reform. We refer to the current electoral law, the one that the Constitutional Court offered us after the declaration of unconstitutionality of the Porcellum (especially for the part concerning the abnormity of the majority prize) that gives us a proportional electoral system. This in a democracy should be fundamental: there is a Chamber which, despite the distribution of functions, can guarantee citizens, pluralism and which, above all, exercises - all the more so because it must not give confidence to the Government - more effective control over the work of the Government. We have retabled - and we will see this after too - amendments in which we entrust to the Senate alone, for example, the exclusive competence of the Committees of Inquiry, precisely for this reason. This would have been a constitutional architecture that would have allowed a balance to be maintained without losing what is precisely the democratic systems, namely the balance between powers, the balance and would have, in my opinion, represented a great good for this country. In this country, Mr President, as you are well aware, we are already faced with great difficulties, for example, in exercising our inspection power; we encounter superhuman difficulties in receiving answers to all the acts of inspection union that we present. This is why the control function that should be in the hands of Members is already denied and the combined arrangement of centralisation, with the decree of urgency and additional powers assigned to the Executive with preferential lanes, once again, consecrates the idea of a Parliament which simply has an ancillary function compared to the Executive; or rather, not with respect to the Government, but with respect to the Head of the Executive. With this amendment again (so we are reduced) we try to reduce the damage, to implement a policy of harm reduction. Let us hope that at least this time - we have not had any luck and we have not been able to convince you with the previous amendments - you will be able to protect yourself. So your aspiration to direct election might have at least a few small extra substances.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u441	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u442	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u443	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as many previous speakers have said, this amendment is intended to fill a gap that is likely to occur. A flaw due not so much to the inability, as someone said, in the writing of the laws (which, moreover, is evident flowing the text of the entire text of the bill of constitutional reform), but it is also due to the arrogance of a government and a majority who think that everything can proceed smoothly and quickly and to the naivety of those who support this majority thinking that they have put in place a great parliamentary group: the boys of 2018. The 2018 Boys are a great parliamentary group of those who are convinced that voting on the reforms will arrive at the end of the legislature. Most likely, however, for that minimum of surveys that are carried out and for a minimum of political experience that we carry with us, they will find themselves to become the Boys of 2017 but not because they will have one year less (which would certainly be a pleasant thing for everyone), but because they will take away a year of parliamentary life. Senator Crimi also described what might be a variant of this path: once the possible confirmation referendum has passed, this Senate has no reason to exist anymore. The present Constitution allows the President of the Republic to dissolve only one of the two Chambers, especially when there are obvious reasons for dystonia with the institutional apparatus (in this case the new). This would certainly be an opportunity for the present majority, but above all for those who lead it, of whom we know the institutional and political vehemence, to get rid not so much of the opponents - Senator Crimes - but above all of the uncomfortable comrades who are taking themselves along and to free themselves, therefore, also from the suspicion that this so composite majority may possibly not respond perfectly to the political address that he represents, not only as President of the Council, but also as Premier. To the colleagues who formed the 2018 Group of Boys I also give this warning: you have constituted it by deciding to support the reforms of the Government for that goal, but you will most likely be very disappointed that you have mistaken objective and therefore also strategy. The truth is that this country does not deserve what is happening, just as it will not deserve the stalemate, which colleagues have rightly described, when, approved the reform and dissolved the Chambers, it has not yet given place to paragraph 6 of this Article 57, which does not say "the Chambers of this legislature" must approve the electoral law of the new Senate, but simply says that "by law approved by both Chambers" will approve the electoral law of the new Senate. This law, therefore, could also be postponed to the future Chambers or the current Chamber plus the future Senate, once dissolved in advance, in the meantime circumventing the transitional rules, referred, as we have seen, to the last articles of this bill. We know, although we do not yet have paper evidence of everything that awaits us in the coming days, that there is still room for negotiation within the Democratic Party on the transitional rules. I repeat: we do not have access - and we do not want to have - to the internal diatribes of the Democratic Party, but we know of course that they reflect precisely this particular and delicate passage of the immediate implementation of an electoral law and not of a use, over time, of the transitional phase that provides for the election of senators by the existing regional councils and, therefore, an automatic denial of all the efforts that have been made (in our view, unnecessarily, considered the result achieved) in order to meet a precise indication by the citizens on the composition of the Senate and, therefore, on the election of senators. Looks like we're playing a lot on the misunderstanding comedy. This is not a clear, clear, precise constitutional reform with its unambiguous rules; it is a constitutional reform that plays in the mists, on a play of misunderstandings, which we find to be increasingly numerous at every stage. The adoption of this amendment, meanwhile, would also protect the member of the Democratic Party who hopes to negotiate this affair at the end of the reform debate (i.e. on transitional rules). The adoption of this amendment would put a clear and precise point on the way of election of the Senate in the event that the famous law provided for by paragraph 6 - which, I repeat, is provided as a law not to be approved in this legislature, but to be approved who knows when from the two Chambers - was not enacted, precisely, in this legislature. So, with good peace of the so-called left Dem and the group of young lions of 2018, I think that there will be some news that will leave them a bit - as they say - with a palm of nose. [[Applause from Senator Alicata.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u444	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u445	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u446	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a very brief statement on the order of business while colleagues come to the House before the vote. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] In these days have been engaged so many Ministers, Vice Ministers and Undersecretaries to scrape the barrel, because the majority must find the vows until the last; moreover there is here the Minister Alfano, who is obviously checking that they do not take away some senator, because there is someone else who is trying to do so [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] Therefore, given that it has been requested several times and that it is difficult to have it heard in the Commission or to have it reported to the House every time it is a business, since it is here, if you sit there, you could tell us the facts of Ventimiglia, as we have requested. He could do it right now, since he's been around for a long time. We have the Minister of Defence, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Education, we have everything here.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u447	Senator Crimes, this is not an intervention on the order of business. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.204/2, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.204/49 and 2.204/50 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.204.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u448	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u449	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u450	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I should like to speak briefly on the order of business. We appreciate the presence of Minister Alfano here in the Chamber, but also the fact that he does not "rockets" around the benches of the senators and sits in the benches of the government in his place, as per the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u451	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u452	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u453	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I will also speak quickly because we know a lot about the so-called Finocchiaro amendment, we know everything, even if we do not really know how the senators will be elected. However, this text was represented by the press, by the public, as a mediation achieved and even the closure of a debate that had taken place, particularly in the summer months, on constitutional reform. I have already said today, and they do not want to repeat me on this, that I have already found this as a first element of real concern, which I hope concerns the whole House. In fact, even if I respect the internal debate in the Democratic Party, I frankly think that representing the agreement and mediation achieved in that party as a kind of closure of the debate on constitutional reform is indicative of the state of health of democracy in our country and this is a little worrying. Parliament is a wider matter than a very respectable party and the mediation achieved within that party is obviously a problem for that party and is not the whole Parliament. I also believe - and I want to say this as I have already tried to do during today's debate - that the mediation achieved does not solve at all the issues raised during all these months and I think it is right who said, even during today's debate, that it is by no means true, as has been said, that mediation solves the problem, raised by many of us now for a year and a half in this part, of the introduction of the second-level election mechanism in this country. We will vote for the next Senate of the Republic with the second level mechanism, beyond all the chatter that can be made and all the arguments that can be given, if only because the wording that has been chosen for the amendment is particularly vague and confused, and needs a subsequent ordinary law that who knows if there will be and who knows what characteristics it will have. Moreover, you will understand the scepticism of those who, like me, have been discussing electoral law in Parliament, the one that has been approved, namely Italicum, even with the confidence mechanism. So you will understand very well that, from the opposition's point of view, there can be very little confidence - and excuse me for the pun - in such a virulent use of the mechanism even for electoral law. It happened for Italicum, and who knows what will happen when we discuss this implementing law. But there is - and I say this to the President of the Commission, Senator Finocchiaro - an additional argument that makes me think that we are actually at the starting point. It is not true that there is direct election, because we will start voting for the new Senate of the Republic with the indirect mechanism. In reality, Senator Finocchiaro, this argument that I am about to present to me you gave it to me, with your speech this morning, as always well argued and witty - of course I share it in very little part, as you can imagine - when you said, in your explanation of vote against the deletion of Article 2, that if Article 2 had been deleted we would have a system in which both the House and the Senate are directly elected by direct universal suffrage, but with one difference: not only the limitation of the competence of the Senate, (...) but two Chambers elected directly would see the Chamber holder of the trust relationship and the Senate deprived of the trust relationship. On this, on the specific story of bicameralism, I will intervene, but paper sings. If the rapporteur herself acknowledges - and I think she is right and honest on this particular point - that it would be wrong to imagine a mechanism for direct election of the future Senate, because the future Senate will not give confidence to the government, then sillogism is very simple: the new Senate will be elected indirectly. Beyond all the chatter that can be told, apart from the amendments and solemn mediations within the Democratic Party's leadership, however, this fundamental element remains, which seems to me to be acknowledged with intellectual honesty. The new Senate will be elected indirectly; I think we need to make this clear to the citizens of this country, and we will also have to hold a referendum on this. I think, ladies and gentlemen, this is a big mistake. I also know that there are several European countries in which there are indirect election mechanisms for the Second Chamber, but it is too easy to bring other European countries into play, because some basic elements are forgotten: for example, for starters, one forgets that in some European countries, such as France, where there is an indirect mechanism for the election of the Senate, this thing is declared without doubt within the Constitution. The French Constitution, in Article 3, reads as follows: The vote may be direct or indirect in the manner provided for in the Constitution. There is also, above all, another reason: these Senates that exist in Europe and are indirectly elected, it is not by chance that decades were imagined if not hundreds of years ago, certainly not in 2015. But this is a fundamental point of this reflection, because it concerns exactly the political context in which we move today. Of course, when one hundred and fifty years ago we were talking about this, already the fact that we had a Chamber elected by universal suffrage, in a direct way it seemed, and it was, an extraordinary thing; then we could have mechanisms for which, on the one hand, we recognized the popular urges and had to grant universal suffrage, but then we had other types of mechanisms. But today we are no longer in that situation, but in a radically changed situation compared to that; and here is the great mistake of this constitutional reform. This constitutional reform should have dropped it in the time we live. The time we live in is, unfortunately, a time marked by a very important element of public opinion's distrust of politics. Unfortunately, in our country this phenomenon is even accentuated compared to what happens in other European countries, so much so that we have become the country that begins to have the highest data of abstentionism. We, Italy, who during the past decades were an extraordinary example of democracy and participation in electoral times, have become one of the countries with the highest abstentionism. We are precisely in a phase of profound distrust of citizenship towards the institutions. We are in the radical crisis of forms of democratic participation, as we have known them in the twentieth century: the crisis of parties, the crisis of intermediate bodies, simplified politics, demagogy, issues we have often talked about during these weeks and months. Well, in the face of this situation, what do you do? Can you imagine a second-level mechanism that, instead of reducing, increases that element of mistrust? But is it possible that we do not understand what kind of moment this is, in this context, that it is not 1875 when, during the Third Republic, the French Senate was established? In 1875 it was clear that the French Senate was second level. But now we are in 2015, at the maximum moment of crisis of confidence of citizenship towards politics, and unfortunately this choice that is made, this papocchio that is imagined, this element of distrust will accentuate it. It is not true that it will reduce it. That's not true. The anti-politics, the demagogy, which we have witnessed so many times, this creeping element of separation, this sidereal remoteness of an increasingly large piece of Italian population towards politics, in your opinion will increase or decrease when a constitutional reform that contains this amendment at the centre will be adopted? Moreover, we have already seen it, I have already said it in this House, and I want to repeat it today. If we had been a more serious Parliament, less blinded by rage and more able to put in place serious reasoning about the constituent spirit, at least we would have made an assessment of how the second level mechanisms introduced in this country have worked over the last two years. We have seen it with the Provinces and with the metropolitan areas, which also include the main Italian cities and not remote and remote corners of the province. Unfortunately, I also say this as a reminder of an experience that took place before my eyes, in my city. That second-level mechanism we have already experienced in the metropolitan cities has proved to be the worst electoral mechanism we could imagine, with the cow market and the worst mechanisms of politics, as we have known them. If we had been a more rigorous Parliament and if the element of the constituent spirit had prevailed, we would have used that example to say that we should be careful, because there is the possibility that electoral systems that work more in other countries will work less in our country. I think you will notice, ladies and gentlemen, and you will see that in the years to come this Senate, this secondary chamber that you are building, you will be forced to take it out of the way when you realize that it works badly. But at least, in fact, have the courage of choices to the end; at least the courage to say that you are in favour of second-level election. President Finocchiaro has said that, and I call you back into question. At least let's challenge each other when we make the referendum. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator De Cristofaro. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). I'm really done, Mr. President. At least let's challenge ourselves, when we make the referendum, on clear options; at least let's get rid of forced interpretations. When we hold the referendum, I will say that I am calling for a vote against this constitutional reform because I am defending direct universal suffrage. You have the courage to say what Senator Finocchiaro said, that, by overcoming the perfect bicameralism, the direct election of the new Senate is wrong. I don't think so, I think you're wrong, and I think you'll notice when the Italian people are wrong from here to a few months. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u454	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u455	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u456	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we have reached the most important point in our debate, because we are talking about Article 57, which concerns the composition of the new Senate, and we are talking about the amendment that has been the result of the long mediation, which has been discussed for a long time this summer and which has reached its determination in reasonably recent times. We also tabled amendments at first reading in the direction of a first-degree elective Senate. There was then an agreement - I remember it without hypocrisy - which required that we go in the direction of a Senate with the indirect appointment and the indirect identification of the senators, but what happened to the House must make us think. If it is true that we are still in an equal bicameralism, the considerations that one House makes with respect to the determinations of the other are to be analyzed. We then asked ourselves this question: if the House imagined that Article 55, the nature and functions of the Senate would be completely debilitated, would there have been a reason? The reason was probably that Members considered that the legitimacy of the source of appointment resulting from the indirect election of senators was not sufficient and therefore said: since you want to make senators like this, with the small change consisting in replacing the word "nei" with the word "dai" then we degrade the functions and nature of the Senate. If it is then true that we are still in an equal bicameralism, we take note of this consideration. If the two Chambers can still have a role of work in progress, of contribution that one gives to the other, I think that we must take what good the Chamber of Deputies has indicated to us, namely that the legitimacy and the level of sufficiency of that source of appointment was not adequate compared to the role that the Senate was still assigned, even if - I repeat and on this we all agreed - the Senate had remained outside the trust circuit with the Government. We therefore called for the reopening of the debate on Article 2, namely Article 57 of the Constitution. There has been all this controversy, which has passed also through the invitation that President Finocchiaro - a person I highly esteem - has addressed to us. In the end, he allowed us a break from the Rules of Procedure, saying that, if we were all in agreement (according to the principle of contradictive nemine), we could all try together to redefine a method that would allow us to modify the system of election of senators. Of course, the pact was that it should be done with times that were compatible with that time schedule of constitutional reforms that we all had in the lead, until we reached the referendum within the legislature, because the legislature, however, had to remain constituent. Too bad, we missed a big chance. The invitation or possibility that was given to us by the President of the 1st Commission was not collected and you were forced to identify a messy mechanism - pass me the term - anchored only to Article 2 of the draft law, or to Article 57, fifth paragraph, of the Constitution. You have therefore tabled the Finocchiaro amendment, which introduces - and I read it - a third element in the identification of the senators themselves in accordance with the choices made by the voters. The combined provision of paragraph 5 with paragraph 6 of Article 57, where in paragraph 6 it is said that the seats are attributed by reason of the votes cast and the composition of each Council, meant, in its first version, that it had to be taken into account with a proportional criterion of the votes cast, but that the majority prizes that were formulated in each Region should also be taken into account, thus corrupting the initial data of proportionality with respect to the votes cast. Introduced now the concept contained in the expression "in accordance with the choices expressed by the voters" - which, if we want to understand it in soldon and in a simple way, means a criterion exclusively and purely proportional, with respect to the indications of the voters, then we will see in what form - introduces a further element of confusion, that ordinary law provided for in paragraph 6, with law approved by both Chambers (the modalities of allocation of seats and election of the members of the Senate of the Republic are regulated). I hope that I am not among the legislators who will have to imagine this law, because it will be very difficult to do so, in accordance with what we are now writing in the Constitution and the three elements that are in dissintuousness between them, between paragraph 5 and paragraph 6. I think it would have been much better if it had been possible to reopen the Article 2 yard and if a direct election mechanism had been introduced, which is what it is intended to do, but which will hardly be able to be collected in the terms in which we wanted it to be, and everything would have been even clearer for the citizens first and for the electoral citizens when it comes to them. All right, let's do an effort of analysis and in-depth analysis, and let's see what an indication of this kind can mean in practice. I wonder, then, how can an electoral ballot be made that takes account of these three elements? On the one hand, I have to take into account the fact that I have to take account of the vote, in the sense that it is written (the seats are attributed by virtue of the votes cast at the regional elections); on the other hand, I have to take account of the majority prize, because we are talking about the composition as expressed, after the majority prizes applied; and finally, I have to take into account the voter's direct will. I try to imagine the card and I have to say I'm struggling. I can think of an idea: I have a card, the symbols of the parties, connected with the President of the Region, and the space to write the name of the future councilman possible, of preference; then, on that card I have to decide which job will that person whom I am giving the preference, that is, if he will only be counselor or if he will be counselor-senator, because anyway the senator will have to remain advisor. We already have an indescribable mess, in the elections, among the municipal ones - and fortunately there are no more provincial ones, which had a different method - the regional ones, the national ones and the European ones: each election has its own method and the Italian citizens today are perhaps accustomed to the difficulty of verifying what they have to do in the electoral booth when they are in front of the card - with the differences between the municipalities up to 15,000 inhabitants and those who have more, with a further complication on the local and municipal vote - but this I think will be a virtually unsolvable difficulty. I do not know the government and the majority what solution they thought of, then we will hear President Finocchiaro, whom I hope will be clearer in this respect. However, I think it will be difficult to do so here. In conclusion, in my opinion, we have missed an extraordinary opportunity. There was indeed the possibility, beyond the race, of the times, of the accelerations, of the forcings, of the tears to the Rules of Procedure and of the bad pages that we have written in these days, President, to make a real deepening and an authentic constitutional revolution. The modification of 50 articles of an Italian Constitution to which we are all very fond could have been done in a climate, in a way, with a method, a deepening and a much greater capacity for sharing. Instead, we wanted to solve only one internal problem within the Democratic Party and I am sorry, because my colleagues in the PD minority seemed to me to have stronger, more manifest, harder, more convinced and determined intentions and that they wanted to reiterate that a clear method of direct election could be found here. Instead, we have and you have been content with a chord, a pastry or something definitely difficult to read. I repeat that I am strongly opposed to this amendment, I understand its intentions, I have followed its history, I do not agree with its conclusions and, above all, I do not share its effects for Italian citizens, who will be voting for a Regional Council, which on that occasion will also determine the senators who will occupy the seats that we now occupy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u457	Since many Members have asked to speak on matters not included on the agenda and requests for votes have also been received, I shall refer the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law No 1429-B to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u458	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u459	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u460	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I merely announce the request for urgent information which we have just lodged under Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure. Given that you have today called for compliance with the rules, I hope that the rule will be respected that the proposers should intervene for ten minutes: in fact, Senator Airola, who really has the rights of the people, will speak to illustrate the proposal. I also hope that there will also be someone who intervenes in opposition to this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u461	As announced by Senator Castaldi, I announce that, by the prescribed number of senators, the request has been received to insert in the calendar of the work of the Assembly, pursuant to article 55, paragraph 7, of the Regulation, the urgent information of the Minister of the Interior regarding the events happened in Ventimiglia. Resolution on this request shall be adopted by vote by show of hands, after the intervention of no more than one speaker per group and for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u462	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u463	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u464	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, yesterday we had the opportunity to have here in the Senate, passing through for a few minutes, the Interior Minister Alfano. I have read Mr Albano's reply, but nothing has actually changed compared to the version I had given. I had asked that Minister Alfano come to explain why in three months the situation in Ventimiglia remained that of a camp, managed thanks to volunteers and the Red Cross. But where is the State? I ask this especially after seeing last night the Minister Alfano who was getting good at the transmission "Porta a porta", telling how easy it would be to redistribute migrants, after identification: but in Italy it takes an average of two years to understand who has the right to asylum and who does not have it and to manage migratory flows. They may be more or less intense, but our nation could handle them very well, except that the interior minister Alfano, with all his chains of Prefectures, has always awarded contracts to cooperatives and societies that are all cross-versally investigated, for the unworthy management of funds and also for the violation of human rights. In fact, it is not uncommon that immigrants are not identified, are sent away, and then roam and feed the exploitation, the caporalate or the microcriminality. I don't want to make demagogy, but I want answers and I don't want them to pass on an emblematic situation, like Ventimiglia, but that reflects a country's total drama and debacle on an important issue like immigration. Gentlemen, this issue is often exploited, either from the right or the left - or from what is left - but it would simply be enough to start having an efficient system. The 5 Star Movement has made a thousand proposals and the PD has ignored them, but we continue on this line, so unfortunately those bad guys in Europe do not make things do as we would like. In fact, however, we have 20 committees that take two years to determine whether or not a person has the right to political asylum. Moreover, almost everyone now knows also from the data that come from war zones: from Syria, Eritrea but also from other places because - as you know - political asylum is given not only to those who come from war zones but also to those who live in situations where democracy is at risk. Well, Mr. Alfano, who was laughing around here, disappeared. He was there before. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No personal consideration, please. AIROLA (M5S). Yes, however, allow me, it is also a gesture of little seriousness on the part of the Minister of the Interior. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm inviting her just for what we said a few hours ago. AIROLA (M5S). I am expressing myself very calmly and I am not saying that the Minister does not show the seriousness appropriate to his role, even when he goes on TV to tell us that in a thousand municipalities you could put two, three migrants, then redistributing them on the national territory; which - we know very well - has not happened for years, since you are in government, but not before. [[Senator Casini's comments.]] The only difference is that before the Ministry of the Interior, which saw Interior Minister Maroni, was able at least to give humanitarian emergency permits, which allowed these people not to live in a limbo, in which they are not identified and become actually goods, things to use, as often happens also to our precarious. The situation of Mafia capital has been pointed out to the prefects, who depend on the Ministry of the Interior, who, when we went, both with the trade unionists and with those entitled who had been thrown out by the ERICHES cooperative, of the center Namasté, involved in Mafia Capital, looked at us with a little'sufficient, to say: Why do you come and break the boxes? CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). There's a time limit, ma'am. AIROLA (M5S). Well, those workers went to help the prefect and consequently the ministerial apparatus to restore legality. I wonder and repeat if it is not the case, given the emergency, the vocation, beyond the laws that provide asylum and to treat these people with human rights and not overload the local communities of commitments (in addition, tourist locations that have also seen a deterioration of their economic performance during the summer months) that Minister Alfano is well explained to us what projects he has or flees abroad before he is permanently involved in the investigations, or he comes to explain - as he really said last night at Vespa - how to improve this situation, eliminating the immense number of requests, appeals. There are still tens of thousands of people who do not have a place, and social terrorism is built on this and racism is fueled. I - I repeat - come from Turin and live in a neighborhood near Porta Palazzo, administered for thirty years by the PD, who lives an unviable situation; we live with great difficulties, we have no services and I am tired of hearing that you fill your mouths and accuse me of doing demagogy. [[Senator Albano's comments.]] May she come, Albano, to live in my home; may she come and live with the citizens and immigrants who have no rights, who are treated like things. Come and explain why in Rosarno there continue to be crowded communities, exploited by the caporalate for the harvest in the fields and the State knows very well what happens there. I demand this, and it seems to me, President, that this is really in line with the legality that we all hope for, as well as referring - as I said yesterday - to the Christian principles that animate some of the majority parties, including NCD, which is committed to Catholicism, but which uses people as things, as beasts to exploit, and in this - we know - many are involved, like Castiglione and others. Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Stop! AIROLA (M5S). We are tired of living in a country that defines itself as Christian and Catholic and that treats people as things; that treats workers of culture, social workers as precarious, with prefects that give back to the same societies the same contracts. This is unbecoming. I've already told you more than once and nothing has changed. So, that Minister Alfano comes here, so much this reform we see that he is now on the verge of arrival, thanks to the privileged channels of the government and the majority... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's taking action to request the information. Get it done. AIROLA (M5S). At least we use time to improve the lives of Italian citizens and people who have every right to see their dignity respected. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u465	I put to the vote the proposal to include in the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly an information of the Minister of the Interior. It's not approved. AIROLA (M5S). No one wants to know... Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's not necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u466	I communicate that the requested number of senators has received the request, pursuant to article 78, paragraph 3, of the Regulation, of remission to the Shareholders' Meeting of the favorable opinion expressed by the 1st Permanent Commission regarding the existence of the prerequisites of necessity and urgency of the decree-law 30 September 2015, n. 153, with urgent measures for public finances. The agenda for the sitting of Monday, 5 October was then supplemented by the Assembly's resolution on that opinion. AIROLA (M5S). Didn't we approve a calendar until October 5th? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. By law within five days you have to schedule it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u467	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u468	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u469	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I take advantage of this moment in which the Minister of Defence is present and has also peeped the Minister Alfano to remember an episode. The presence of foreigners, immigrants on the territory has created many problems. Now in Trento is announced the arrival of 150 migrants who will be hosted in a barracks. To fix this barracks that will give temporary hospitality you will have to spend 500,000 euros: more than 3,500 euros per person. But this will not be a definitive arrangement. We understand that Minister Alfano has annoyed many Italians. Hosting immigrants in hotels and paying for them 35 euros per day, thus in practice maintaining as tourists of the people, and leaving other Italians with unanswered problems has generated total chaos. But the problem is, that's not an abandoned barracks. It is a barracks, dear Minister, even if you perhaps care little about the issue, which is quite active and must be settled in terms of road; I am told, even, transennated. 20.58 (Follow DIVINE). I remember that in this barracks there are still 30 operating vehicles, there is a workshop, the battery store and, even, a fuel depot that contains from 80,000 to 100,000 liters of gasoline gas oil. We have understood that that barracks is not fully used; but how can we combine the two functions? It must still act as a barracks, but you also want to use it as a place for the reception of people who probably won't even stand still. Already their presence is not pleasing to the population; we do not think it is appropriate to give up security because in a place where there are hundreds of thousands of litres of fuel people are housed who wander freely. Dear Minister, try to take some action or register the shot because it doesn't seem the case. [[Applause from Senator Stefani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u470	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u471	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u472	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about nuclear waste: our Damocles sword. A sword of Damocles of absolute danger that hangs on our heads and on those of the future generations and with respect to which the government is late: it is absent and late. In fact, despite our repeated reports and despite the fact that Italy is seriously risking yet another Community infringement, the Government still does not want to deal with these nuclear waste which, I remember, is radioactive. In particular, we are referring to the fact that there is a complete lack of the fundamental act in this area, namely the so-called National Programme. Perhaps not everyone knows that Community legislation (Directive 2011/70 Euratom) provides that the Member States of the European Union each have a national programme in which to indicate all the actions that should be carried out. (21 p.m.) (Following GIROTTO). Among the different chapters of the programme there is of course also that of the national deposit. This programme also provides for the public consultation phase, through the SEA (strategic environmental assessment), i.e. a public consultation procedure in which stakeholders can express their views throughout the programme. Of course there is also the phase of approval in the State-Regions Conference; those same Regions - happens to be - that two days ago, in ten, have submitted a referendum against the unblocking drills, those same Regions with which the Government does not want to confront and therefore postpones for months to proceed on this topic of importance, I would define, atomic. President, the government should have closed this procedure on 31 December, but we are monstrously behind schedule. In addition to this, the Government does not even proceed with the appointment of the director of the newly-established, SSP institution that should control these activities, and I say it should because it is still standing still. This appointment is firmly held in the Council of Ministers for the sensitive facts concerning the candidate named, as a case may be, personally by the President of the Council. At present, a department of ISPRA is responsible for the role of SSP required by the European Directive, of about 30 people, which is absolutely insufficient to ensure the safety of SOGIN's audits of activities. President and citizens, I would like to inform you that the 5 Star Movement will present next week a question, yet another, to know the real reasons for these delays (and I urge you now to respond to this); withdraw the appointment of Agostini and make the ISIN fully operational; adopt urgently and implement the national programme on radioactive nuclear waste; while waiting, suspend the publication of the map of potentially suitable areas, because logically at this time it is not procedurally, and above all rationally, correct. We have the presumption that delays and omissions are due to the fact that dealing with this matter would lead to a loss of electoral credibility for the Government, which does not want to take responsibility for managing this hot potato. But the government must not allow itself to continue to play hide-and-seek with the Italians on this matter of enormous danger. Don't keep the dust hidden under the carpet, because in this case the dust is radioactive and damn deadly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u473	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u474	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u475	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I had actually asked to speak on the occasion of the shocking events concerning Senator Barani's actions. I do not really feel that I should point out, as I had in mind, in agreement with the women of my Group, that I shall postpone the speech on behalf of all the women of my Group, but I would ask for a very precise commitment from the Presidency. When the Bureau is convened on Monday and decisions are communicated, I would like to formally ask that we be able to speak before the House and those responsible for this act. I think it is very important and an act of respect, which was not given to us when I was denied the floor with the full House. I would ask you or anyone for you, when the time comes, to give me the floor with a slightly more respectful Chamber to a communication from women. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u476	Senator Fattori, I cannot commit myself to the presidency's turn on that occasion. I would suggest, however, that you inform the House of what you wanted to say to the members of your Group who are members of the Bureau, since we will have to deal with the case at 1 p.m. on Monday.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u477	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u478	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u479	RICHIUTI (PD). Mr President, institutional reforms have their weight, but the living flesh and working life of people may have more. The workers of the Alcatel of the Province of Monza-Brianza, who did a garrison in front of the prefecture of Monza this morning in view of the meeting that will be held on October 5 between the company, the union and the undersecretary for work, Teresa Bellanova. The FIM, FIOM and UILM Confederal Trade Unions are following carefully the dismissal procedure involving 19 workers from the Vimercate headquarters. The procedure concerns a group of workers who, although no longer young, do not have the possibility to be accompanied to the pension; nine of them were part of the optical sector of Alcatel, which was transferred to SM Optics, which is based in the former Celestial area. In the transfer agreement, it is expected that the SM Optics will be able to deal with any employment problems of the Alcatel and this could be a possible solution to the problem of redundancies. Matteo Renzi last year was present at the inauguration of the new Alcatel headquarters and spent praises on the multinational. He said that they were companies of this kind that were supposed to represent employment hopes for our country; then it is right that now, in the face of these redundancies, he should say his own.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u480	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u481	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u482	Orellana (Mist). Mr President, I am speaking on a personal basis as a result of the insults that were addressed to me yesterday by Senator Endrizzi, who I regret is not here. However, I speak serenely, without replying pan per focaccia to an insult, and I go instead to the point that challenged me, that is to say to my supposed half truth (and therefore to the half-lie) that I would have said when I argued that the possible approval of my amendment 1.34c (completely replacing paragraph 5 of Article 1, just like that of Senator Cociancich), would have precluded all other amendments to Article 1. In fact, Senator Endrizzi agreed with this, but he added that a subsequent government amendment could reverse what was stated in my amendment. I would therefore have omitted this possibility, nothing but a possibility, which, however, he considers as absolute certainty. On this he bases his accusations against me, accusations to which he added insult. Of course I do not agree with this certainty, because, as we all know, the Government can propose amendments in the course of the sitting, but they open up the possibility (and this is almost a certainty) of being able to subempt, with possible secret votes and obstructive tactics. From my point of view, in this situation the Government's amendment would have been highly unlikely. In conclusion, I believe that it is Senator Endrizzi who tells half-lies, because he treats his hypotheses as absolute truths and instead uses them to accuse me, that I have only said what is certain, peaceful and recognized by himself, to distort reality with half-truths or half-lies. I therefore reject his accusations and send them back to the sender. I hope, finally (but it is only a wish), in today's renewed spirit of mutual respect, to receive his apologies for himself.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u483	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-515.ana.u484	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Saturday, October 3, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.07 a.m.
