ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.38 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u4	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 4.05 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 15.42 a.m. and resumed at 16.05 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u6	The session is resumed. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.05).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1733. The rapporteurs, Senators Tomaselli and Laniece, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u10	I ask you to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u12	CUOMO (PD). Madam President, we have been engaged with several Members of the 10th and 13th Commissions waiting for the work of the 5th Commission to be completed in order to complete the examination of the Ilva Decree-Law. At the same time as the sitting of the Commission, the work of this House has resumed, and I believe that this is contrary to a rule of the Rules of Procedure. Instead, the President of the 10th Commission assured us that he had spoken with the Presidency of the Senate Assembly to postpone work by at least 25-30 minutes, so that the Commission could complete its process. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] Instead, we arrived in this House and the work of this House had already begun. I would therefore like to make a formal point of order, because the sitting of the Commission took place during the proceedings of this House. I would like to ask you to speak on the subject and to make us understand how the Rules of Procedure work: whether it works for everyone in a fair way or whether, on the other hand, it must be interpreted from time to time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u13	In the meantime, I would like to say to you that your point of reference to the Rules of Procedure is devoid of merit, because we did not agree at all. So let's get on with our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u14	I would like to greet the group of Granatieri di Sardegna di Chieti retired who came to visit us at the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u17	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, the afternoon sitting began at 3.30 p.m. because, as you know, during the afternoon sitting there was a request from the President of the Commission to anticipate the beginning of the sitting of this House at 3.30 p.m., with the opposition of our group and other groups. I had already announced in my speech what would happen, namely that we would not be ready and that the sitting of the House would still start later; among other things, the question was now also raised by Senator Cuomo illegitimamente, because he knew that this would happen. Madam President, I would therefore like to condemn the behaviour of the Government and the majority who, even when they know perfectly well that they are not in a position to respect the times, must always and continuously override this House, reaching something ridiculous, as happened today, but reaching together the aim of having the sitting suspended at 12 noon, while we could have continued to vote on amendments to the draft law on environmental crimes for at least another hour, by doing our work. With one stone two pigeons were taken: the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on environmental crimes has been postponed and, as usual, it has proved to be strong and that we vote here. Although next time you want to come and tell us that the sky is not blue but green, we have to vote. Just as happened this morning, when, in view of the evidence that you would not have been ready to arrive at this House at 3:30 p.m., a good vote to show that the majority is male, is strong, you had to put it there anyway. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u20	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, I take part in this morning's debate with the President, who, with his request to bring forward the afternoon sitting at 3.30 p.m., interrupted the work of all the other Commissions in order to allow the 10th and 13th Commissions to complete their work and bring the measure to the House for the scheduled time. Nevertheless, as Senator De Petris has rightly said, we are still late. Now, it is true that we have voted on the timetable, but there is a majority that has an interest and will always reject certain demands. However, I ask the President to make himself a super partes once and for all and to get the Senate to work properly, without always compromising with the PD. I'd like you to listen once and for all to all the members of the Senate and not just to the PD. Senator Tonini had asked to hold the opening hours of the afternoon session different from the one originally planned. So, I ask President Grasso to listen every now and then to the voice of the entire Senate and not just one part; to be the referee and not just the President or the associate of the PD. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u21	First of all, the Presidency was obliged to start the sitting at 3.30 p.m., as the House voted. I have to say that this morning's President, as well as this afternoon's Presidency, can only take note of the choices made by this House, so we are objective in this respect. Other remarks of an absolutely political nature will remain in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u24	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, having already voted on the Minutes, after checking the quorum, and having been engaged in the Italian parliamentary delegation to the Assembly of the Council of Europe until 4 p.m., it is specific that, like other Members, I was not here for this reason, and that no communication was made by the President of the Senate to that delegation. So please consider my absence in the previous vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. I call the rapporteur, Senator Laniece.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u25	Madam President, as regards the conversion of this important decree-law, I shall refer in my report to the parts within the competence of the 13th Commission. With specific reference to the parts within the competence of the Environment Commission, Article 2 (3) to (6) defines and regulates the procedure for the implementation of the environmental plan approved by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 14 March 2014. In particular, paragraph 3 specifies that the management activity of the company, carried out in compliance with the requirements of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 14 March 2014, must be considered as a public utility activity and that the interventions provided for in the environmental plan are declared indifferent, urgent and of public utility, and constitute variants to the urban plans. Paragraph 4 introduces rules for speeding up the procedure - this is another important element - of approval of the interventions provided for in the environmental plan. It is expected that, for the implementation of the participations previewed from the plan referred to in the aforementioned decree, the procedure referred to in paragraph 9 of article 1 of the decree-law n. 61 of 2013 is started on proposal of the commissioner within fifteen days from the availability of the relative plans. In addition, a period of 20 days is provided for the expression of opinions, visas and non-obstacles by the competent administrations or bodies and for the silent consent mechanism. The same rule specifies that, for environmental impact assessment and opinions on health and landscape protection, the forecasts referred to in article 1, paragraph 9, second period, of Decree-Law No 61 of 2013, where it is expected that the Ministry of the Environment, on the proposal of the extraordinary commissioner, will convene a conference of the services called to rule within the 60-day period. According to paragraph 5, the plan of environmental and health protection measures and activities is intended to be implemented if, within a time limit - which is no longer 31 July 2015, it has been modified in relation to the original text, but I will speak after the changes that have been made - the requirements will be adopted, at least to the extent of 80%, which will expire by that date. The Commissioner is required to present to the Ministry of the Environment and the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) a report on compliance with the provisions of that plan. A decree by the President of the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister for the Environment, is required to define the deadline for the implementation of all other requirements. Paragraph 6 provides that compliance with the provisions contained in the same plan, in the terms referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 above, excludes, with reference to the evaluation of the conducts closely related to the implementation of the AIA and the other norms to protect the environment, health and public safety, both administrative responsibility on the part of the legal person company ILVA Spa, and the criminal or administrative liability of the extraordinary commissioner and the subjects from these functional delegates. Paragraph 3 provides that the Commissioner extraordinary reports, according to the current legislation, the use of the resources of all the special accounts opened and provides periodic information - the provision does not indicate specific time-limits - to the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Economic Development and the judicial authorities concerned. At the various meetings of the 10th and 13th Commissions, positive changes were made - in my opinion - to the decree-law in conversion. The first concerns a very important aspect of health protection. An amendment approved in the Commission allows the Region of Puglia, in order to ensure adequate levels of protection of public health and a more effective fight against cancers, with particular reference to the fight against childhood diseases, to carry out interventions for the enhancement of prevention and treatment in the field of paediatric onco-hematology in the Province of Taranto, within the limits of expenditure of 500,000 euros for the year 2015 and 4,5 million for the year 2016. This topic had been highlighted by all the groups and a few weeks ago President Renzi also spoke. The Commissions then approved an amendment with a forecast for which the Minister of the Environment presents to the Chambers, every six months, a report on the state of implementation of the plan referred to in the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 14 March 2014 and on the results of the environmental checks carried out. In the investigation, with another amendment it has been specified that the plan, referred to in the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 14 March 2014, is intended to be implemented if it has been realized, no longer by 31 July 2015, but by August 2016, i.e. within the period previously indicated regarding the implementation of all the measures provided for by the AIA. It has been specified that, at least to the extent of 80%, account shall be taken of the number of requirements which expire on that date. Paragraph 4 of Article 3 confirms the right of recourse by the State towards those responsible for the environmental damage, in consistency with European and national legislation, as underlined by the explanatory report accompanying the bill of conversion of the decree-law. The Commissions then also intend to address the safety and management of radioactive waste in storage in the former Cemerad area, which falls within the Municipality of Statte, in the Province of Taranto. To this end, 10 million euros were allocated to the resources referred to in article 1, paragraph 3, of Decree-Law No 129 of 2012. There is also an argument that has been brought to the attention of the various auditors, not least the President of the Apulia Region: I refer to the derogation for recruitment at the Regional Agency for Environmental Protection of the Apulia Region, so as to allow an adequate control of the whole plan to protect the environment and health. It must be said that the amendment was rejected correctly because of budgetary constraints by the 5th Commission, pursuant to Article 81, given the lack of the technical report attached. I believe that this amendment would have been voted unanimously in the Commission, including the amendments tabled by other groups: the reason why it could not be voted on is that the technical report came after the vote of the 5th Commission. I therefore hope - and I believe it is everyone's wish - that in the process of converting this decree-law there will be a need in this House for the Government to recover this amendment, which I believe everyone wants. I am referring to the amendment in which it is expected that the Region of Puglia will have the possibility, by way of derogation from the assumptional powers provided for in the current legislation, to employ permanent staff within the overall limit of 55% of the organic budget in force at 31 December 2014, from own resources certified by the internal control bodies. I must say that the two themes of the onco-haematological pole and the recruitment of ARPA personnel are interwoven with a plan that the Region of Puglia approved in 2012, called Environmental Health Center, which has a series of well-defined objectives regarding primary and secondary prevention, diagnosis and treatment of tumors and diseases that are related to environmental pollution, which has been in some way widely highlighted in that area. Article 4 establishes the ex-lege approval of the modalities of construction and management of landfills (localized in the perimeter of the production plant of Taranto of the company ILVA spa) for special waste (dangerous and non-dangerous), presented on December 19, 2014 by the subcommissor, and of the modalities of management and disposal of the waste of the production cycle of the said plant, presented on December 11, 2014 by the subcommissor. In the course of the investigation, the Joint Commissions approved an amending proposal adding two paragraphs to Article 4. Paragraph 2-a provides that, in accordance with the general principles of internal and Community law, the production activity and waste management activities authorised pursuant to this Decree-Law must comply with the principles laid down in Directive 2009/112/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 and, in particular, the hierarchy of the methods of waste management, according to the order of priority of prevention, re-use, recycling and recovery. Therefore, they can be recovered for the formation of findings, of hives of waste storage facilities on the ground, of road sub-funds and of railway ballasts or for environmental fillings and recoverys, if they conform to the test of cession referred to in the decree of the Minister of the environment that I have cited before. Article 6 provides for the preparation of a programme of measures, in the medium and long term, for the reclamation, environmentalization and redevelopment of the area of Taranto, intended to ensure an adequate level of safety for people and the environment and to mitigate the relative criticalities, with reference to the competitiveness of the companies and the Taranto territory. The extraordinary commissioner for the reclamation, environmentalization and redevelopment of Taranto is responsible for the preparation of the above-mentioned programme, which must be implemented in accordance with the provisions contained in the Institutional Contract for Development (CIS) for the area of Taranto, referred to in Article 5 of this Decree-Law. Paragraph 2 identifies the resources to be transferred, for the implementation of the programme, to the special accounts of the Special Commissioner. A precise list indicates resources and capital. The Commissions meeting, with amendment 6.1 (text 2), propose to replace paragraph 1, providing that the extraordinary commissioner for the reclamation, environmentalization and requalification of Taranto is responsible for preparing, taking into account any indications of the institutional table referred to in Article 5, a programme of measures, in the medium and long term, for the reclamation, environmentalization and requalification of the entire area of Taranto, declared at high risk of environmental crisis, aimed at ensuring, where possible, by recourse to internationally recognized BAT (best available techniques), the highest level of safety for people and the environment. Article 8 regulates the procedures for the adoption of a plan for the recovery, the redevelopment and the valorization of the old city of Taranto, as well as for the preparation of a project of cultural and tourist valorization of the Marine Military Arsenale of Taranto. Also in this case, the competent Commissions, with amendment 8.4, suggest to specify that the plan of interventions can foresee the valorization of any public property deserving of protection and redevelopment, as well as the realization of primary and secondary urbanization works, in particular of cultural centers and polyspecialistic clinics, green areas equipped with recreational playgrounds. I'll stop at this point. I thank Senators Cucchetti and Marinello, Presidents of Commissions 10a and 13a, the Councillors, Dr. Giammuso and Dr. De Salvo, and all the Offices that have done important work in these weeks. Of course, a big thank you goes to the co-rapporteur, Senator Tomaselli, and to all the other Commissioners present in the Commissions meeting, who have really worked in a serious and continuous way. Finally, a thank you goes of course to Deputy Minister De Vincenti and to all the offices of the Ministry of Economic Development. All this has allowed us to do a difficult job, a very demanding job on an important topic for our country in which the right to work, the right to health and the right to a cleaner environment are intertwined in an important way. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Battista]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u26	I call the rapporteur, Senator Tomaselli.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u27	Madam President, honourable representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Laniece has long considered a number of specific changes introduced during the examination of the decree-law carried out by the Joint Commissions. In my speech, I would like to highlight the more general issues that concern this complicated, in some respects tormented affair of the city of Taranto and the future of the ILVA plant. I start from the idea and the awareness that the work done in the last month, in the Commissions together, allows us to approve in the next few hours - as I hope - a measure undoubtedly strengthened compared to the initial text of the decree-law. And I would like to thank not only the Committees on Industry, Trade, Tourism and Territory, the Environment, Environmental Goods for their joint work, but also all the parliamentary groups, both by majority and by opposition, for their constructive attitude and for the proposals made during the Commission's examination, several of which have helped to make this measure more effective. And of course, thanks go to the government's work. This commitment, which has been able to benefit in recent weeks also from the contribution of a series of subjects, which we have had the opportunity to hear and with which to speak - from the social forces, to local institutions, from the extraordinary commissioners of the Ilva and the Bonifiche for the city of Taranto, to the same magistrates of Milan and Taranto - gives us important results for the future of the Ilva and of the same city of Taranto. Since the beginning of this tormented affair, which dates back to three years ago, the successive governments and parliamentary assemblies have worked, even in the legitimate dialectic of opinions and points of view, to pursue a goal at the same time ambitious, complex and not at all obvious: to keep together the productive continuity of the largest steel industry not only Italian but also European, with a production capacity of 8 million tons of steel per year (one third of the national requirements); with the occupational continuity of a group that, between direct and indirect, employs more than 16,000 workers, and with the environmental rehabilitation of the plant and the city of Taranto, a reality tormented for years - indeed, for decades - of production without the necessary interventions to reduce pollutants and adequate policies of sustainability, protection and protection of the environment and health. That this bet is still in its entirety in front of us, I think it is a truth that we cannot, with honesty, hide. That's why we consider this decree-law and its contents - especially after the examination by the Senate - a decisive stage, a sort of last curve of a winding path, beyond which there can be the goal to ensure really, finally, that delicate balance that holds together productive continuity and employment and environmental recovery of the ILVA and the city. That is why I am convinced that the Senate is about to dismiss a very positive measure, which can really represent the long-awaited turning point. That's why I would like to identify and tell five decisive questions that, around this decree-law and the challenge of the ILVA and the future of the city of Taranto, we can imagine being able to win. The first of them is the productive and occupational continuity of the entire ILVA group, starting from the factory in Taranto and then of the plants spread in many parts of the country. Today this objective, made weak by the liquidity crisis and the production decline of the last two years, is again possible thanks to a substantial injection of financial resources to the company, guaranteed by the release of the funds Fintecna (equivalent to 156 million euros), made faster by the changes that we have made to the decree-law and the availability of ordinary credit lines for about 260 million euros, granted by the banks thanks to the initiative of the new extraordinary commissioners and also to the solicitations of the Government. This will allow to restart the industrial process and the same relationship both productive and financial, now strongly weakened and in great suffering, between the ILVA and the induced. The second challenge and the second major option are the environmental rehabilitation of the Taranto plant: an objective that today is guaranteed with greater certainty by the rule included in the measure, during the parliamentary examination, with which the procedure is more stringent to make available to the extraordinary administration the resources already seized from Riva by the Milan Public Prosecutor. Here, this goal is closer today. We are talking about resources of EUR 1.2 billion, to which an additional EUR 700 million could be added, at the moment also blocked by the Milan Public Prosecutor himself. The decree-law is modified, in order to make this path more linear and rapid, overcoming also objections of a judicial nature, which also have manifested themselves on such a delicate point, through the issuance of bonds to guarantee the use and the destination of such important resources. The latter - I would like to remind you - are expressly bound by law to the full implementation of the requirements of the environmental plan and, if there were residual resources, these will be destined to interventions in the matter of health and safety protection and to the activities of Bonifici. The decree-law, finally, on this point maintains unchanged, and confirms, the date of August 2016 as the final date for the implementation of the AIA. Let us move on to the third major objective: investment in modernisation and innovation. To this end a further measure is introduced in the decree-law by which the extraordinary administration is authorized to conclude financing for a total amount of up to 400 million euros, assisted by the State guarantee for 150 million euros. With these resources we will finally be able to start the no longer viable investments of plant and technological modernization, beginning with the renovation of the blast furnaces, essential for a solid and lasting productive resumption and to improve in a decisive way the efficiency of the production lines. These first three objectives, in addition to being strongly interconnected with each other, are also fully functional to the same future prospect of transfer or dense of the ILVA to a newco, which will be able to see the light downstream of the initiative promoted by the Government already in the so-called decree unblocks Italy and strengthened then in the so-called investment compact decree, to the examination in these days of the Chamber of Deputies, with which the company for shares for the capitalization and restructuring of Italian companies, which will probably find its first application for ILVA. The fourth great choice, and also of greater suffering in these weeks, has been to try to protect and safeguard the induced. This was the most sensitive issue from a social point of view. The text, which already contained a derogation from the rules on revoking proceedings in the event of admission to the special administration, was further supplemented by four new measures. With regard to the first, a rule defines the claims of small and medium-sized enterprises which have carried out activities under the special Commissioner's scheme for the provision of environmental goods and services, for the safety and continuity of production facilities and for the implementation of the same environmental plan. Secondly, we have included a rule that makes 35 million euros of the Central Guarantee Fund available for the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises, with which a substantial mass of credit (equivalent to 400 million euros) can be activated for Ilva suppliers, 80% guaranteed by the Fund. An ulterior participation previews, in favor of the small and medium enterprises and the enterprises of the road haulage, the suspension of the terms for the payments of the erial taxes until next 15 september 2015. Finally, there is a further forecast that ILVA's small and medium-sized suppliers will be able to see the moratorium on loans and loans extended until 2017. Fifth, but not least in terms of importance, is the theme of the city of Taranto. This is the part of the decree-law whose initial text was more effective and on which we intervened less during the examination in the Commissions gathered, fully sharing the resources and the instrumentation identified to accelerate the interventions of environmental rehabilitation and urban regeneration of the city. The activation of the institutional table, with the presence of the national government and the local institutions, that will oversee the implementation of the institutional contract of development, represents an objective leap of quality in the planning, in the programming and, then, in the management of the important resources already allocated for the city of Taranto, as well as of potenziamento and valorization of the infrastructures, like the port and the military arsenal. We have also included a safeguard clause, aimed at preventing or reducing the possible negative employment effects associated with the process of reorganization of the productive and industrial sites of the city of Taranto. And finally - my colleague Laniece mentioned it already and I want to remember it too - there is the intervention of 5 million euros with which we start an onco-hematological-pediatric pole at the hospitals of the Province of Taranto. It is an intervention of great significance and importance, because of the impact that has had, especially on children, the most acute forms of pollution. I hope - in line with what my colleague Mr Laniece had hoped - that, during the next few hours' debate in the Chamber, we will be able to further enrich the environmental protection around the Ilva and the city of Taranto, even with an amendment that is in the right direction of arrival, and that we have not been able to approve for the reasons that he referred to, which concerns the strengthening of the organic endowment of the ARPA Puglia, specifically intended for the environmental control and prevention of the city of Taranto and the industrial pole of Taranto. In short, with the approval of this measure in the next few hours - I hope - the goal of settling two fundamental issues becomes closer: restoring the failures of the past decades and projecting the company towards modern and sustainable technological standards. Colleagues, representatives of the Government, would suffice to recall the numerous decrees that have affected the Ilva and the city of Taranto - probably, indeed certainly, unique in the legislative and industrial history of the post-war of our country - to give the sign of the exceptionality of the event: a real national emergency of extraordinary gravity and not only the drama of a city that paid a very high tribute to industrial choices of another era, of another Italy. We are, in short, a crucial step not only for the life and future of the ILVA company and the factory in Taranto - as we have previously recalled - but I would also like to say for the same industrial history of our country. I not only believe that this challenge must be met, but I think that Government and Parliament must ensure that this challenge is won, in order to save not only that factory, those tens of thousands of jobs, that city, but also a decisive part of Italy's industrial system and our ability to continue to be a great manufacturing country. The rhetoric with which the need to keep work, the environment and health together has been declined for years must leave room more and more for the concreteness of industrial choices that really can bring these objectives together, without fanaticisms which, from time to time, favour or pre-empt one to the detriment of others. On several occasions in recent years - I am going to conclude, Madam President - the ILVA affair has been read as the litmus test of the long-standing absence in Italy of an industrial policy worthy of this name: an industrial policy to which a great country with a manufacturing tradition like ours cannot afford the luxury of giving up, even in a still serious economic situation. A modern industrial policy cannot but be based on the sustainability of production processes, to which the presence of the same large industry, which we believe to be still essential in global competitiveness, can also be guided. This, after all, is the most ambitious challenge to which the story ILVA calls us, as a country system, to get out of the anachronistic dualism work-environment in positive terms and to build a productive and industrial future in which the constraint of sustainability is really a great opportunity for growth and development. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u30	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order. In accordance with Rule 78 (6) I would like to see the list of amendments approved by the Commissions meeting 10a and 13a distributed to the Groups. I would also ask, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, to know whether there is a time limit for submitting sub-amendments to the amendments adopted. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u31	As soon as it is transmitted, we will absolutely do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u32	Madam President, I would like to explain quickly the content of the question that I would ask all my colleagues and colleagues to examine in more detail. Surely the decree-law that you are about to convert contains many profiles of illegitimacy, but I try to dwell on those that have some importance of unconstitutionality. It seems to me that the rapporteurs have not mentioned in their reports the particular circumstances of the case of substantial absolute impunity of the Extraordinary Commissioner and of the officials delegated to him in criminal and administrative matters. I refer to the second period of the sixth paragraph of Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which excludes the criminal and administrative liability of the Extraordinary Commissioner and the persons who are functionally delegated by them. The first period of the aforementioned paragraph 6 provides that compliance with the provisions, contained in the plan referred to the President of the Council of Ministers of 14 March 2014, is equivalent to the adoption and effective implementation of the models of organization and management provided for by the law for the evaluation of the conduct related to the implementation of the integrated environmental authorisation (IAA) and other norms to protect the environment, health and public safety. We know that this plan will be implemented if, by 31 July of the current year, at least 80% of these AIAs are implemented. We believe we have understood that these percentages must be understood in a numerical sense. The first point concerns Articles 3 and 28 of the Constitution, which require equal treatment of civil servants and civil servants as regards criminal liability for the acts they carry out. We know that the Constitutional Court has made it clear that the legislator, by amending criminal laws, can lay down special rules which may derogate from the common rules on the criminal liability of civil servants. But this faculty can obviously only move in the context of the reasonable balance of the constitutional values at stake. We believe that the decree-law in question goes beyond the inevitable limit of the fair contemperation of interests and indicates subjects who, in fact, become soluti legibus, that is, absolutely outside the law in areas not clearly typed. I call on you to think about this, because we are setting up a fearful precedent. We are, that is, identifying, with conducts at all typical, of the subjects that will be totally immune at criminal and administrative level, moreover with the violation of another rule, the reserve of jurisdiction: the judge will not, in fact, be granted a parameter of assessment to judge the connection or not of the conducts put in place with those relative to the implementation of the AIA. In addition, there is another side effect: it is left to the sole discretion of the Extraordinary Commissioner to identify who, among the delegated officials, will be covered by this super shield of immunity and who will not. Moreover, the definition of the rules of the plan as better preventive rules on the environment, the protection of health and public safety and the safety of the work is of apodictic and self-referential nature. There is no way to control ex post that the conducts connected with the implementation of the AIA actually comply with these criteria, because they are completely undefined. And we know that in the past, always within the framework of the wicked decree of urgency, shields of impunity have been provided. It all began in 2008 with the Alitalia decree, but at least in that place the previous conducts were protected and there was no safe conduct even for future actions still to be undertaken. There is, therefore, a total lack of exclusion of any discrimination against conducts that cause events against public safety or the physical integrity of people: a very serious fact if it concerns, for example, safety at work and very serious when considering the peculiar history and the dramatic environmental and health situation of the area of Taranto, so much so that the following question arises. But the workers of the Ilva and the citizens of Taranto what fault do they have to deserve all this? What historical guilt do they have to pay? The Committee on Justice, however, had made some remarks, which were completely unheard of, so that consideration could be given to the possibility of excluding at least malicious conduct. The emphasis has not been accepted and, therefore, we are in the paradoxical situation in which the extraordinary commissionor and the lucky scudeti delegated officials will be essentially free to adopt any kind of arson. Now I do not want to think badly, but I already imagine the newspaper titles - we hope not - that, in a few months or years, they will investigate on facts such as contracts or subcontracting for the execution of integrated environmental authorizations, perhaps carried out with corrupting or exchange methods. Well, for this reason the Commissioner and his delegates will be absolutely immune, that is to say they will have prerogatives that not even the President of the Republic, the Pope or the Head of a foreign order have. What reasonableness is there in all this? We know that 80% of the AIAs, which must be implemented by 31 July 2015, will result in purely formal requirements, since there is not even an obligation to justify the choice of AIAs made by that date. Without any obligation of motivation, the extraordinary commissioner and his band will be able, therefore, to move in complete discretion, not subject to any kind of verification, even a posteriori, and this in violation of Articles 9 and 32 of the Constitution. All this happens, as the news is highlighting, within a regulatory and interpretative framework relating to the extraordinary administration that is already having negative effects on the claims compensation of the civil parts that are deemed injured. The exclusion of the old ILVA company from civil liability and its substantial substitution with a different legal entity in extraordinary administration, which will respond in debate only within the limits of its actual availability, determines the effect that the parties offenses will have to proceed against individuals or make an application before the bankruptcy court of Milan, which oversees the procedures of the extraordinary administration, where the credits already certified will end up in the mass of liabilities. Once again we ask ourselves: but what is the fault of the workers of the ILVA? What is the fault of Taranto's citizens for such a deteriorating treatment? We don't get used to it. It is the seventh decree-law saves ILVA (now we no longer know what to call them), and unfortunately we continue to fear for the distortions of the decree of urgency, which we have often stigmatized during these almost two years of legislature, when it comes to extraordinary administrations and commissioners or supercommissiars, and which we see become reality in the chronicles, even of the judicial type. The last point worth thinking about is the absolute disruption and the combination between what should be legislative and administrative activity. Article 4 of the Decree-Law provides for the approval of ope-laws, i.e. by law, of the construction and management of landfills located in the perimeter for special waste, of the management and disposal of waste and so on. And therefore, not only are administrative acts approved by law, but the decree-law introduces the typical typology of the laws provision, formally legislative acts that however take place administrative measures, as they provide concretely on specific cases and reports even when it comes - as for the provisions in question - to approve an administrative act already put in place. And all this, once again, to disrupt every principle of legality. The last reference - the time available to me is about to end - concerns the resources employed. In Article 6, it is expected that the Extraordinary Commissioner will prepare a programme, in view of the extraordinary need and urgency of reclamation, environmentalisation and redevelopment of the entire area of Taranto and, where the urgent decree should be available for the immediate future, the plan is in the medium and long term. But above all, the resources are found on the basis of the CIPE resolutions that also refer to other different areas underused, further evidence that the continuous succession of decrees, with rules derogations dangerously generic or obscurely formulated, appears the instrument less and less suitable to guarantee effective solutions, balanced and lasting for the serious situation of Taranto, that we continue to ask ourselves what fault he has in order to deserve all this. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u33	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the question referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u36	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the question referred for a number of reasons. First of all, for a preventive aspect, that is to say, it is clear that we will arrive at the vote of confidence, after a hasty and final stretch of the work in the Commission which, on the whole, have been far from hasty, because the decree-law is of 5 January, we are now to 18 February and therefore remain only fifteen days (or sixteen or seventeen, because of the brevity of the month of February) for the conversion and the provision still has to make the whole passage here in the Chamber and then to the House, which in theory would have the right to modify it. It is clear that the House will avenge itself by sending us other measures when they are no longer modifiable, but it is superfluous because it is already doing so with the so-called'multiprorogation' decree, which it still has to examine because in the meantime it was necessary to make urgent measures pass, but the constitutional reform, which would at most come into force in 2018. I am told that there have been 15 days off in the Commission because the government did not know how to deal with this issue, we know that there are problems of coverage over the too little money that has been allocated. An extremely regrettable aspect is, for example, that of the payment of small and medium-sized enterprises which are suppliers of goods and services related to environmental recovery. There is a commendable amendment by the rapporteurs which allocates 35 million to this end, which is much better than nothing, but because these debts or debts - depending on the point of view - amount to at least 150 million, if we refer only to the small and medium-sized supplying enterprises but if we include also the hauliers up to 300 or 400 million, we see that with this measure we add hundreds of millions more to that mountain of credits boasted by the companies that the public administration does not pay. Premier Matteo Renzi had promised to pay those debts by St. Matthew, i.e. by September 21 (course, of course, therefore not September 21, 2015 but September 21, 2014). Even before that he had set a very previous date, even in June of last year, but neither in June nor in September he did so and in the meantime have accumulated some others. In the meantime, companies shut down and the paradoxical thing is that there are companies that fail, not because they do not succeed because of the crisis period, the lack of demand or the increase in costs (although unfortunately there are many of them), but because, although they are healthy companies (how much they provide the State and boast against its claims), because the State does not pay them, they fail. Employees end up in cash-outs or get fired, and so it is additional burdens that the taxpayer has to pay, and unfortunately they are not productive burdens, but they are burdens that consist of paying people to not work, people - well noted - who worked in healthy companies, who would still be healthy if the State paid its debts. Well, in this measure we add another 300-350 million more credits from companies that are not paid. The money certainly isn't easy to find, but when you want you will find them. There was, for example, about a billion to extend the baby bonus to non-EU families, whose income, apart from other considerations, is often impossible to ascertain. As a result, even if to a large extent non-EU countries are undoubtedly of modest economic conditions, if they were not, we have no way of obtaining certification from their countries of origin of what income they may have at home. We will therefore finance an increase in the birth rate among these people, who already have a birth rate much higher than ours. For these subjects there is 1 billion, as well as the money of the famous 80 euros for the campaign continues (and this is not a reduction in taxes, otherwise it should also be reduced to VAT matches and pensioners), but for those who have worked - and it is a sacred duty to pay those who have worked - the money is not found, and this is one of the cases. Then, among the incredible norms of this provision, there is that prince who has already been much emphasized by those who preceded me but who are worth reading. The second period of paragraph 6 of Article 2 of the decree-law at our examination reads: The conduct put in place in implementation of the Plan referred to in the previous period may not give rise to criminal or administrative liability of the Extraordinary Commissioner and of the entities that are functionally delegated by the Extraordinary Commissioner. I stop here because then there is a second part that leads to even greater reflection. We therefore have a kind of re-introduction, in a very pronounced form, of the immunity that Members had until the reform of Article 68 of the 1993 Constitution. But that was not an impunity, but an immunity that had to be confirmed by the vote of the House of belonging; it was not absolute. There's no need for that here either. In the past, in particular cases there was all the freedom on the part of the House or the Senate to establish that such a Member had to go to trial and could proceed against him; there was permission to proceed, abolished in 1993 and that today there is no more. In this case, they don't: they have impunity and even can delegate it to whoever they want (it's a really incredible thing): "from this functionally delegated". Already the expression is vague, but I think it will be very simple for the Commissioner to write in the delegation that the second period of paragraph 6 of Article 2 of the decree-law we are talking about applies. It is truly unbelievable and unjustifiable. It is unjustifiable if not with the reasoning that is made in the second part of this period, because it is said that the acts performed by them cannot be punished because they constitute fulfillment of the best preventive rules in the field of the environment, of the protection of health and safety public and of safety at work. There must be a ratio, some justification for this incredible impunity that is guaranteed to the gentlemen appointed by the Government and to the gentlemen themselves appointed by them. The ratio is this and it is written: to make the best policy of environmental protection, health protection and whatever else may be necessary to violate the law. But this is an incredible thing, if that is the case; but you are saying so about the majority by voting on this matter shortly with a vote of confidence. The government, as the Premier says, puts its face on this and basically says: I, the Government, the party of legality, the party who errs pays and whatever else, write that people will not be punished whatever they do, even if in case of arson, and I justify it saying that to do things properly you must violate the law. At the same time, yesterday, and then tomorrow or when it will be, the penalties multiply precisely on these things and they double, quadruple or multiply by the most imaginative numbers the prescription terms, because it is said that in Italy to do your job well you have to violate the law. Let us then change these laws, apply them all, including the commissioners appointed by the government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u37	I address the greeting of the Assembly to the students of the Istituto tecnico commerciale Statale (State Technical Trade Institute) in Bologna. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u40	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we shall vote in favour of this preliminary ruling, first of all on the question which - alas - is reiterated in this decree-law, but which, in my opinion, has a further profile of unconstitutionality, which concerns the second period of paragraph 6 of Article 2, which in fact provides for non-penalty, therefore impunity, for all the conduct connected with the implementation of the requirements of the AIA from the administrative and criminal point of view. Now, it is clear to everyone that this part from the decree-law should have been absolutely expunged, because with paragraph 6 of Article 2 we already predict that in the implementation of the prescriptions of the AIA you can commit crimes. You know perfectly well that, from the environmental point of view, the situation is very serious, and I would also like to say that we are in the seventh decree and above all that, from the environmental and health point of view, nothing has happened in these two years, despite all these decrees. Someone has to tell me if there were a hectare, 500 meters or even a single meter reclaimed. It's not like that. So, from this point of view, we are in a disastrous situation which is repeated once again. This is a precedent on which I do not know if you really think: in Italy there is a need for heavy interventions with regard to environmental reclamations and more there are many. We are establishing that crime can actually be committed and will not be punished, that is, an impunity is established for extraordinary commissioners, for the subdelegate, for those in charge and for all those who are included in the decree-law itself. This, in my opinion, is a very serious fact and it is clear to everyone that there is a clear profile of unconstitutionality. Having said that, there is then a further aggravating factor, in my view. The Justice Commission, when expressing its opinion on this part of the decree-law, had requested that at least a dole be excluded from the provision of impunity. Now, you, Mr President, are well aware that the Commission's opinion on justice has not been taken into account at all. Therefore, in our view, the profiles of unconstitutionality are absolutely obvious, and it will not be a majority vote in this House to overcome these profiles of blatant unconstitutionality, although I obviously hope that on this side all the senators will reflect. What is the reason for the inclusion and recurrence of this impunity within the ILVA decree? That if not, no one would agree to be the Extraordinary Commissioner or the Subcommissary for Environmental Reclamation. Do you think, President, that this could be a motivation? This means (we could apply it to any other field) that, since no one would agree to go as mayor in disastrous situations as there are many (maybe you run into situations difficult to handle within the city), if we do not guarantee some sort of immunity or non-penalty nobody would agree to go be mayor. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] But I could give a lot of other examples. Among other things, in a situation such as that of the ILVA, which - I repeat - is extremely complex, it is reiterated the non-penalty in the face of the fact that the seventh decree-laws the situation, especially as regards the environmental part, has certainly not improved (then I will enter into the substance when the general discussion about the assessments on the repeated use of decree-laws, which were perhaps not the best tools). Then there is another issue that we particularly care about. I refer to the fact that the decree-law in question states that the assessment of health damage (which, I would like to mention here, was introduced for the first time in Italy with a law of the Puglia Region and then transposed and disciplined in a more precise way) cannot modify the prescriptions of the AIA. On this point too, we have in vain tabled amendments which have not been taken into account by the Commission. From this point of view, you understand well how clearly the unconstitutionality of the provision is profiled, because it is clear to everyone that also in this case through a decree-law, through an extraordinary power given to the commissioners who must implement the AIA prescriptions, it is reiterated - always in the decree-law - to ensure that what is a constitutionally protected right to health should not orientate and therefore modify also the prescriptions of the AIA. Instead, the main issue on which all of us have been called upon to intervene and we have done so every time before the presentation of the repeated decrees on the ILVA, concerns the health of the citizens of Taranto and the workers of the ILVA, which we consider fundamental. I therefore wonder how one can think that the assessment of health damage, i.e. the health impact, should not modify the AIA or that there is no possibility of reopening it even at the request of the Region itself. In this regard, too, precisely with regard to the profiles concerning health protection, which is a constitutionally protected asset and should therefore guide the choices and automatically make necessary the adaptation of the AIA requirements to the results of the assessment of health damage absolutely necessary, it is clear that the decree-law, not only for how it is born but also for how it comes to approval after the work of the Commission, is not only absolutely satisfactory but, in our opinion, clearly presents profiles of unconstitutionality. These are therefore the two fundamental questions for which we consider it necessary not to proceed further to the examination of the text, because we should immediately have expunged from the decree-law itself the part relating to non-criminality. This will be a precedent that will not only remain here, but will remain as a deep vulnus also in our legislation. That is why we shall vote in favour of the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u41	I would ask the House to pay attention to why we are moving to the vote. I say this so that everyone takes his place and the vote can take place quietly. I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Buccarella and other senators. It's not approved. Montevecchi (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u42	Madam President, I have a duty to stress that this decree-law, the seventh law, which has not yet been converted, has already made victims: the 600 civil parts admitted to compensation. [[Applause from Senator De Pietro]] In the event of a conviction, the civil parties will have to proceed against individuals or apply to the bankruptcy court in Milan; ILVA SpA is excluded from civil liability for claims for damages lodged because the legal status has changed since the entry into force of the decree-law. This decree-law extends the rules for the immediate admission to the extraordinary administration of companies operating in the sector of essential public services to undertakings operating at least one industrial plant of strategic national interest and are subject to special commissioning. But it is the long story of the ILVA in Taranto that makes us say that not even this time you are doing the right thing. The paradigm of the strategies used to date, of the instruments and of the objectives has not changed. As my colleague Mr Buccarella pointed out in our preliminary ruling, the analysis of previous decrees that have followed for the case ILVA of Taranto and the regulatory framework that is outlined would impose a clear and urgent reversal of trend, first of all with the abandonment of models of exemption from liability for even future behavior, which is constituted as a license of impunity. In the last twenty years, ILVA has appeared to be a universe in chaos. In fact, it is not surprising that it has produced the lethal pollution it produced; it surprises, and so much, that no one will ever compensate for the damage, damage established by the first expert commissioned by the judge for preliminary investigation Todisco more than two years ago: 386 deaths from 1998 to 2010 due to industrial emissions, of which 174 only because of PM10. Steel has created a city in the city and dictated the rules, dreams, rhythms of life of an entire community. According to the Decree-Law, the Extraordinary Commissioner for Reclamation must prepare a medium and long-term reclamation, environmentalization and redevelopment programme, where the urgent decree should be available for the immediate, but resources are found from CIPE resolutions which also refer to other and different areas underused. The continuous follow-up of the decree-laws, with a derogation name, generic or obscurely formulated, always appears the instrument less suitable to guarantee effective, balanced and above all lasting solutions for the serious situation of Taranto. Do not feel acquitted with the amendment that provides that the Region Puglia can prepare a plan for the realization of a pediatric onco-hematology pole in the Province of Taranto, authorising the expenditure in two years of 5 million euros. Of course, we appreciate the positive effects that could result, but we also believe that it is correct to intervene, at this point, with state resources also in other areas with strong environmental and health problems, since the coverage is in the reserve and special funds of the Ministry of the economy. Let us think, for example, of all the territories in which citizens have lived in close contact with asbestos for years. In December 2012, the European Parliament, addressing the ILVA issue in Taranto, reiterated the polluter pays principle and asked the Italian authorities to ensure the environmental recovery of the area as a matter of urgency, forcing those who caused the damage to bear the costs of reclamation. In this case the mantra of the "Ce" asks Europe, dear citizens, does not apply! Webs of complacency, omissions, connivances in the world of politics, institutions, journalism, even the curia and that local bourgeoisie always ready for every compromise have allowed to exchange (more or less knowingly) the environment and health with development and work. In recent days illustrious representatives of the PD, like the rapporteur Tomaselli, have declared that the 5 Star Movement makes of the "becera propaganda" on measures that try to give concrete answers to the problem of the prescriptions of the AIA and that, instead, will be met by the middle of 2016, as confirmed today the present Deputy Minister for Economic Development De Vincenti, the same vice minister who on the one hand says that this is the most advanced environmental plan in Europe, on the other that it must be managed. Indeed, an amendment tabled by Senator Fabbri and other Senators that intends to implement the plan was approved if, by 31 July 2015, at least 80% of the requirements expired on that date have been implemented. Conversely - I say this to the citizens of Taranto - an amendment of ours has been rejected that intends to implement the plan if by 31 July 2016 all the requirements contained in it will be fulfilled and that, therefore, maintains the integral implementation of the prescriptions. The attorney of Taranto, Franco Sebastio, had evidenced that the formulation of the decree-law posed doubts citing the case of the conducts put in existence in omission of the plan. Let us clarify and reiterate the seriousness of such a choice: the Commissioner will be immune from criminal liability but we give him to manage to clear up a nice package of money. We note that the legislator has gone beyond any limit of imagination, as it relates to an exclusion of responsibility to a future activity and it is expressly stated that this dereliction concerns both criminal and administrative profiles. If 80% of the AIA's measures are understood in a purely numerical sense, as it seems clear, we are faced with a very serious choice and with the concrete possibility that this requirement will be translated into an activity of fulfilling the purely formal requirements for the current year, to the detriment of the substantive and decisive ones. We keep in mind that the provision of article 2, paragraph 3-b, of Decree-Law No 61 of 4 June 2013, which does not at all reconnect to 80 percent a purely numerical value, remains in force. It could result - since the amendment linked to the conversion law and not to the original decree-law comes into force - from a double assessment track for the fulfilment of the limit in question. Paradoxically, the statement by Deputy Minister De Vincenti is useful: it must be managed. Finally, we are aware that due to the specific situations affecting ILVA, a regulation that could be used by companies that are not affected by severe environmental problems is being amended by decree-law. One example is the Parmalat case or the Alitalia case, which - we might say - gave rise to this discipline, but which had nothing to do with environmental problems. We take note of the privileges that ILVA has to the detriment of many, countless industrial crisis situations and we ask, in conclusion, a question: is this the industrial policy that wants to realize the Government of the serial liar Renzi? Answer us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u45	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if we want to respect it, the general debate has begun, but I do not yet see the file of amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u46	It has now arrived from the Commission, they are copying it and so it is about to be distributed. I would have said that when it was actually put into distribution. GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, I would also ask you to know the deadline for submitting sub-amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It will also be communicated at that time. GIROTTO (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the seventh ILVA decree is coming to this House today. It arrives with its load of legitimate expectations, pain, disappointed expectations and disturbing questions and unfortunately arrives once again with the disturbing hypothesis of a new vote of confidence. I hope that is not the case, but if it were to be, it would be the thirty-fourth confidence, which would give Parliament its non-function, the bleak sense of its uselessness. I am sure that the Government is fully aware that it has to respond in a concrete and effective way to the environmental emergency, to the duty to protect health and to the demand for safety, that from Taranto - that territory so martyred - has risen also with the intervention of the judiciary. The critical points have been recovered in a skilful, synthetic and effective way even Mr Malan, in expressing the reasons why we, convincedly, voted in favour of the preliminary ruling that we have just commented and evaluated. As I am sure - and I say this to my friends of the Government - that we can act through instruments that do not contrast health to work, or vice versa, they add a completely different logic to the way in which we legislate in this area, perhaps adapting ourselves to the requirements of the European Union itself, which for some time has indicated clearly, in a strategic vision for the revival of this territory. I am afraid, however, that this measure does not go in the desired direction, despite the remarkable efforts of the rapporteurs, Tomaselli and Laniece, and despite the skillful direction and commitment that I give to the Presidents of the Marinello and Cucchetti Commissions. This decree-law should have been used to save the city of Taranto, the future of its families, its businesses, its children and its workers, and instead risk turning into a new lost opportunity and, if it is okay, we will console ourselves by saying that the best is the enemy of good. We all know that the sad and dramatic events of the ILVA case impose serious, credible, concrete and lasting solutions; it is not enough in this case the policy of contentment, perhaps with downward logic, with negotiations and downward agreements, as even the amending phase, unfortunately, has made us understand that it is being done. Emblematic is the paradoxical story that invests in these days some off-wave recordings, rendered in an interview by the council member of the Municipality of Taranto, Vincenzo Baio, of the Democratic Party, a doctor even before a politician, always engaged in the activity of management of environmental emergencies, with a clinic in that district Tamburi, wounded to death by the history of an impossible pollution. The council member, convinced to speak with a microphone off, comments with very bright tones on the content of the decree-law, saying that in his opinion it would contain nothing that really stops environmental pollution: it is also useless to tell the beghe that have been created within the PD, of which I do not care, but that are significant of the need to approve also these choices to the logics of party and the colors of a policy, which in doing so renounces its role and fails to its duties. Meanwhile the issue of the payment of previous debts of the companies, the induced and the haulers, that to date they amount to beyond 250 million euros. I realize that the rapporteurs must please the government and that the government must deal with its own budgets. The truth is that, as rapporteur, I would have resigned from such a distant and ambiguous attitude on the part of the Government, because on sensitive issues such as those we are dealing with today, there is no worse thing than to promise what we know cannot be maintained. We have 250 companies that are at risk of failing, without the possibility of getting back up, simply because they trusted the state during the administration of the police. On the other hand, trusting the state meant keeping in mind that ILVA, until two years ago, was an imposing industrial reality in the European economic scenario, with 6 billion turnover. In 2013, in a few years, there was the sliding down. Extraordinary Commissioner Bondi expected almost half revenues and now Commissioner Gnudi is submitting to the Milan court the request for immediate admission to the extraordinary administration procedure. There has been a lack of supply of raw materials, due to the strike of the haulers, which, again here, I want to mention expressly, with a thought of solidarity and support for their action of protest against the indifference of the Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] It is clear that the lack of supply is jeopardising the functionality of the plant, with the risk of closure. I mean, there have been disastrous results. So today we have reached 250 million and more debts of the company towards the companies of the induced. We are talking about economic realities that give jobs to about 3,500 employees, who deserve a concrete response through credible regulatory instruments that close the door to the bureaucratic swamp in which too often drown even the hopes of those who wait, opening instead to the open sea of effectiveness and applicability a different season, a change of pace, a way in which the State also regains dignity as a credible interlocutor by the citizen. It's not like that. It is important that we give certainty to the new rules introduced in the Commission, which provide for the suspension of tax payments and a moratorium on these companies' loans. Mr Tomaselli, I fully agree with you, and I also appreciate the effort, but I would like you to say with me that this measure is absolutely not enough to be considered as minimally acceptable by companies, because the suspension of payments is fine, but the postponement of a few months seems to me to be a very modest and marginal matter. Perhaps it would have been better to make the performance of duties (the payment of taxes) subject to the recognition of rights (the payment of debts that the State has towards these workers): I pay taxes if the State has respected my claims. However - we know well - for some years (i.e. since the austerity policy was inaugurated) the State has now become the worst enemy of Italian citizens, ready to stretch its hand around the taxpayer's neck through Equitalia if it does not pay, but with debts of the public administration that are struggling to reach that level of regularization that even the President of the Council had guaranteed. In addition, the Government's task is also to ensure that the funds for reclamation are effectively available. In the decree-law is also provided the use of part of the resources of the Riva family, today placed under seizure, through the ignition of a bond loan. I very much appreciate the commitment of President Cucchetti, who also explained to me, with very precise technical references, what are the guarantee conditions that would have been laid down. For the truth, I still have some perplexity. However, I am happy to hear from the rapporteurs and the Presidents of the Commissions of merit that what needs to be done will be financed from the resources that are being seized by the judiciary today. The transfer of these sums to the Single Justice Fund reminds me of how those resources have been blocked and the bureaucracy that has been marked by a maze of measures that, in other areas, have never been met. Moreover, in some areas, such as Piombino and Florence, real resources have been allocated, tens and hundreds of millions of euros have been allocated to achieve what was intended to do with the law; a secure financing, with already planned and codified covers. Here, for a geopolitical issue, which clearly does not confirm the interest for the South on our government's agenda, things go differently. For Taranto everything is decided outside the Parliament, referring the definition of the quantum and especially of the implementation times to a decision of the CIPE and leaving everything to the discretion of the bureaucracy. We had asked for certain times and certain resources. Result: rejected proposal. Thanks to the government. It is clear that the times of the reclamation and the protection of the health of the citizens of Taranto cannot follow those of justice, which are unpredictable. The Government must therefore bear the costs arising from the implementation of the decree-law, if those resources are not immediately available. The risk - I come back to this - is everything, so much so that I have presented a specific agenda in this regard, which has been kindly and generously approved (an agenda is never denied to anyone). I hope that agenda will have at least a stimulus to the government to keep a spotlight on this issue. That of resource certainty, ladies and gentlemen, is a fundamental aspect, otherwise everything risks turning into a mockery for families and workers, already exhausted by a wait that can no longer know derogations. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I firmly believe that Taranto paid a very high price on the altar of economic security. I would like to record the interest of this, also by looking at the number of Members who have spoken in general debate, which I find to be an example of a broad, widespread and undoubtedly very commendable interest on the part of Parliament in relation to a subject which cannot be regarded as territorial in nature. It is a problem that concerns the whole country: indeed, for the economic profiles and considering the activity of the Taranto steel site, it also acquires a supranational dimension. Finally, I would like to refer to health profiles. The data contained in the SENTIERI project of the Higher Institute of Health on polluting sites for the period 2003-2009, which were also deepened during the period of the Monti Government by the then Minister of Health Balduzzi, have already brought to our attention worrying elements (and are not the only ones), starting with those concerning children subject to diseases in the first year of life, including leukemia, malformations and oncology, often fatal. I would like this to be clear to all my colleagues, to the rapporteurs and to the Government; as I would like it to be clear that politics has a duty to find solutions that guarantee the citizens and that they will contemporaneize the various aspects that affect the problem in a combination of constitutional guarantees. By the way, just to put the icing on the cake: the cancer patients in Taranto, many of whom have probably contracted the pathology due to the problems of environmental damage caused, have for years been deprived of the right to have a transport service that goes to the hospital and that takes them back from the hospital at home: it is a shame. Work and health are sides of the same coin, of course, but it is a medal that cannot be used for coin throwing: head or cross, work or health. No, that's not allowed. It is a shame and what we say here must turn into a whip on our conscience. That is the starting point for the Government that I have formulated to the text of the decree-law with a positive outcome in the Health and Health Commission. I believe that the attention given to the opinion formulated by the Commission has been absolutely marginal: the need to extend to a wider territorial area the possibility of taking advantage of the offer of tests for prevention; to allocate part of the resources allocated by ASL to the financing of the sick transport service; to indicate a time limit for the Higher Institute of Health, called to update the epidemiological study SENTIERI. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). I just need a minute, please allow me, Madam President. Then there are two amendments, one of which concerns the resources to be allocated to the oncology-pediatric pole at the hospital "Santissima Annunziata" (Saint Annunziata). President, the Premier has come to Taranto. He guaranteed and made this commitment. I have the press agencies with the commas of December 26, the day this decree-law was passed. He had provided substantial resources to build an oncology center at the Santissima Annunziata (Holy Annunciation) for dying children, as the Institute of Health says. No commitments of this kind can be made, and then there can be lost, transforming the creation of an oncology pole into a commitment to support and strengthen the system of care and care for patients. They're two completely different things. The other aspect concerns ARPA. How do you know how to give greater skills and organisational, management and function to the ARPA without there being the unblocking or the derogation, at least 60%, to the staff of the ARPA? ARPA has resources already blocked and funded by the National Health Fund. It is a derogation that I am surprised has not found the Commission's 5th positive response. This is a derogation: the resources for strengthening the ARPA with the adaptation of the staff are already foreseen. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, finish. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). We are faced with a lingering attitude of insensitivity, a kind of subculture hard to die and sometimes bound up with irresponsibility and impunity. I am surprised by the provisions of paragraph 6 of Article 2 on the impunity of the Commissioner. It is a parenthesis of which the judge of the laws will take care. It is also the task of the State, politics and the Government to offer adequate tools for sustainable development, to be an example in transparency, efficiency, correctness and the elimination of all waste, to put people at the centre, to give a concrete meaning to the word community and to offer a perspective. It is our duty to improve this measure. We are at the seventh decree-law without reaching the seventh heaven. Taranto's time has gone too long: now we fear that there will be no more. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u48	I should like to inform the House that the amendments adopted in the Commission are being distributed to the House and have already been sent to the Groups. For sub-amendments there are two hours of time from this moment. The deadline will therefore expire at 7.42 p.m. Senator Scalia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u49	Madam President, it has been pointed out that this is the seventh ILVA decree-law and has been highlighted with a negative emphasis. To me this seems to testify instead to the complexity of the matter and the exceptional strategic importance of the interests involved: they are interests that sometimes conflict, but all of a public character. First of all, there is the interest in saving the steel industry in Italy. Italy remains the second country in Europe for manufacturing industry and there can be no manufacturing without steel, as evidenced by the fact that Italy is the second country in Europe, always after Germany, also for steel consumption. There is the interest to save the ILVA plant in Taranto, which is the only one in Italy with an integral cycle, where you start from the raw material to get to the finished product. It is the second plant in Europe for production capacity. He's one of the first in the world. It is among the most technologically advanced, as the representatives of ArcelorMittal, one of the great groups interested in the acquisition, acknowledged at the hearing. There is a very important interest in saving the employment linked to ILVA: over 15,000 direct employees and between 8,000 and 10,000 employees in the pipeline. All this would be done guaranteeing the continuity of the productive activity of this enterprise, guaranteeing the continuity of a productive activity that is in itself already impacting from the environmental point of view and that has been made intolerable impacting for how this activity has been managed in Taranto. The aim is to ensure the continuity of operation of this activity in conditions of environmental sustainability and protection of the health of citizens located in the immediate vicinity of the ILVA plant in Taranto, especially in the Tamburi district, almost integrated with that plant. To me it seems that this decree-law summarizes these different interests in a balanced and effective manner and does so with a general rule, a rule of system, modifying and renewing the discipline on the extraordinary administration of large companies in crisis, extending it also to companies of important national strategic interest, such as the ILVA is, to the outcome of the approval of the first of this long theory of decree-law, n. 207 of 2007. It does so by allowing the extraordinary administrator to identify at the appropriate time, without underselling, the outcome of an adequate valorization of the company and the overcoming of environmental problems, also through private negotiation (as long as, of course, in compliance with the principles of transparency and non-discrimination), the person to be entrusted, to be sold, to be rented by the company, ensuring that these guarantee the operational continuity and the maintenance of employment levels. (17.45) (Scalia followed). The decree-law, moreover, inserts - not in detail, because the two rapporteurs have already done it in a wonderful way - the special rules that go to implement this special legislation on Ilva, made necessary by the extraordinaryness of the affair we are dealing with. I am referring in particular to the rules aimed at speeding up the implementation of the environmental plan with mechanisms of administrative simplification absolutely extraordinary, to ensure the resources and (here I may say) the Government, the Commission and the rapporteurs have improved and corrected a text that risked to compromise, according to the deputy Greek prosecutor, the work of the Milan Public Prosecutor. Now it is clear that the resources seized from the Riva go, in the availability of the extraordinary administration and are bound to the implementation of the prescriptions of the AIA, that today are implemented to 75%: unfortunately this percentage is on the number of the obligations and not on the economic value and the consistency of the same. Today, only 600 million of the 1.8 billion needed have been committed. Much remains to be done in this little more than a year that we have left and therefore it is absolutely appropriate those rules of speed, the declaration of public utility, indeferability and urgency of the infrastructures functional to the implementation of the plan. There is then much more, that goes beyond the ILVA: there is the National Plan of the city of Taranto, there is the Institutional Contract of development of Taranto, there are the participations on the port, there are the participations for the reclamation, because that area is site of national interest for the reclamations independently from the ILVA, beyond the ILVA, and it is a particularly compromised area, regarding which it is urgent to operate the intervention of reclamation. I therefore believe that we can indeed, by taking up the words of the rapporteur, Mr Tomaselli, say that we are at the last corner of a winding path, but at the conclusion of which - I hope - positive prospects are opened up. I shall conclude on a point which has just been touched on by the Decree-Law and which has been the subject of some of the amendments I have tabled and which has then been turned into agendas, a question which may seem marginal if we look at the ILVA issue in its complexity and enormousness, but which is vital and is just as enormous, if we pass on the expression, if we look at it from the perspective of the workers and their families, who are hanging on to the development of this affair. I am talking about the operational continuity of the other ILVA Group's plants, because ILVA is mainly Taranto but it is also Genoa, Novi Ligure and Patrica, a small plant with respect to the size of the Group, with only 70 employees. A factory now closed for three years, with those employees on the move for more than six months, to garrison day and night with their families the plant waiting also for our decisions and the prospects that these decisions will open. I have gladly turned my amendment into an agenda, because I realize that tying the extraordinary administration to ensure the continuity of operations of plants which are not classified as of significant strategic interest, even though it would be a rule limited to ILVA, would open a heavy precedent, against which the Government probably did not feel to give a favourable opinion. I have turned that amendment into an agenda and I have taken the Government's favourable view on it, because in the words used by Deputy Minister De Vincenti in expressing that opinion I have taken the awareness of a real and non-formal commitment on behalf of the Government and I thank him for that. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u50	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u51	Madam President, I am an optimist by nature and I am also self-ironic, because I come from the same city as our President-in-Office of the Council, but you are really testing both my self-irony and my ability to be optimistic. We are faced with a new decree-law and, surely, with a new vote of confidence. However, I am also pleased that I am not a doctor who carries out his activity in the city of Taranto. I understand everything, I understand that in our nation we need metallurgy, a plant that works and jobs for 12,000 workers. Most likely, if we were to ask these workers "Do you know that this factory will lead you to die?" "They would answer us "Indeed now I work and eat, then I will see whether I will get sick or whether my children will get sick or not." However, facing such a tough and serious alternative a group of our citizens, in my opinion (as a politician and even more as a doctor) is truly terrifying. Do you think we'll be able to heal this situation? There is to cover the mining parks, there are to close the conveyor belts, there is to adapt the plants, both the coking plant and the blast furnaces and so on. All this requires money and perhaps, as many say, it would also be necessary to close the company. Do you also think that with two change, because this is what it is, we will be able to resolve the situation? ILVA has 3 billion debts. ILVA's input, that is, the companies around it, all have a lot of credits so strong that we will give them a crumb, then we will favor their chance to recover some money by facilitating a bank loan (so making them debt even more) and we have no idea where we can find the other money that we lack (absolutely this is not there). The heart of the problem, then, is the money in the end. We make a whole program, we build a whole building, we build a building, and we don't have the money to build the foundation. Or rather, perhaps we have the money to build the foundations, as happens in so many jobs that are done in our country: we open a construction site and leave it open for years, so much the economy spins and someone earns. But here, someone who doesn't earn any money loses their health. We can think of some good ideas. I discussed this with Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri in the Health Commission. That's right. Ambulances are needed to transport cancer patients to the hospital, to get them to take a test and then take them home. We also have the idea of organizing a register of childhood cancers. We expect a cost knowing that this childhood cancer register is very useful but it will give us the first results in three years and will address children who will get sick in 15 years. So I ask myself: is this the way to solve the ILVA problem? Is this the way to behave in the face of people who have an incidence of cancer that, to say the least, is double that of the other areas of Puglia? Let us return to the principle that polluters pay. I am of the idea that it is time to stop putting part of our population in the face of the dilemma: I work to eat today and perhaps to pay for tomorrow's medicines. [[Applause from Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u52	Senator Amoruso is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 30 November 2014, the President of the Council of Ministers declared, with regard to the ILVA in Taranto, that the Government was considering whether to intervene with a public entity to restore the company for two or three years, to defend its employment, to protect the environment and then to relaunch it on the market. The Minister for the Environment said that if the private purchasing hypothesis had not been able to ensure environmental recovery and productive competitiveness, then the hypothesis of a state bridge intervention to restore the company, the environment and then re-launch it on the market would have been plausible. The Government in office, which has never been punctual in relation to the multiple ads (especially when it comes to the South), has only partially followed up on what we have just said. At the same time, however, I highlight how the difficult situation of Taranto and Ilva, with its induced, is today before our eyes in all its drama. The figures have been mentioned: more than hundreds of millions of debts to the companies involved, the problems of rehabilitation, the thousands and thousands of employees who are at risk of work. All this about two years after the entry into force of the first ILVA decree-law of the Monti Government. In total, there have been six decrees-laws on Taranto and ILVA so far, and today we are at the seventh. Despite so much regulatory production, the crisis of the ILVA is reaching a point of no return and for this reason the Government cannot stop at the policy of announcements, but must take a concrete step after years of empty laps and offer the ionic territory a concrete perspective, guaranteeing the expectations for the future of workers and signs a change of pace by implementing also a serious program of environmental recovery and protection of the health of citizens. Any action concerning ILVA must aim to guarantee the full productivity of the plant and also to offer a concrete response to all the local entrepreneurship of the induced. In an economic context of severe crisis, both at national and even more so in the Mezzogiorno, the crisis in the Taranto steel industry has reached levels that are no longer tolerable. Forza Italia affirms these principles because one cannot limit oneself to emergency measures, which are only palliative and which largely follow the contents of the recalled many other decrees-laws completely analogous already launched in the recent past. For this reason, in practice, during the examination of the Commissions, our Group has tabled amendments aimed at making more effective a measure that otherwise will not have a positive effect, in particular on the ILVA induced, as recalled, that today is experiencing a dramatic situation because of the lack of certainty on fundamental issues, such as payments, the time of disbursement and the awareness of the funds available. The priority of Forza Italia, while in the clarity of its critical position towards a decree-law that risks being ineffective, as already happened in the past, has been to collaborate to find real solutions in order to resolve in a clear and definitive way the nodes opened for too long, with particular attention, as already mentioned, to the question of the payment of the previous debts of the companies of the induced and the haulers. Unfortunately, only a very small part of this effort has been taken into account, putting at risk the survival of Europe's second iron and steel pole, with everything that follows. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u55	Madam President, I think it was right for the rapporteur, Mr Tomaselli, to point out that this is an important measure, which intervenes on an issue which is not local, but which is indeed a major national issue. When we talk about ILVA, about environmental rehabilitation, about the need to ensure the health of tarantinos, let's talk about this. This is not only because it is now evident, even after the rescue of ThyssenKrupp in Terni, that the revival of the steel industry in Italy passes from here, from the productive continuity of those plants and the possibility to innovate the plants, but because ILVA is a great national issue especially because it is both interest and duty for the whole country to give back to Taranto and the Tarantini the right to health, environmental rehabilitation and a livable urban dimension, capable of enhancing the history of the city. Still, it is the interest of the whole country to equip Puglia with a more functional port, capable, for size and efficiency, of competing with European standards. With this decree-law we intervene on all this, even correcting the limits of the previous norms and recognizing the need to re-launch the entire urban system and create the conditions to enhance the entire city in the interest of tarantinos. This measure will guarantee the productive and occupational continuity of ILVA, but investing on the port, on the tourism and guaranteeing the small and medium enterprises, will also create the conditions in order to realize new occupation in an area that it has much need of it. It will be possible to use the European Commission's Steel Action Plan and use the Structural Funds to accompany the restructuring process. I would add that it would now be appropriate to make full use of the European Social Fund and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund - where the funds are located - in order to support the retraining and updating of workers in the sector, but also for the professional relocation of workers who may have been made redundant. Moreover, in support of the project contained in this Decree-Law, it will be possible to take advantage of the State aid that the European Union allows for the steel sector to promote development, innovation and environmental protection. In this respect, the State-funded fund of EUR 150 million is also needed to guarantee the 400 million credits allowed to invest in new installations. Then, as Tomaselli recalled, there is the extraordinary commitment to compensate the citizens of Taranto for the negative impact that ILVA had on their lives and on the quality of the urban environment: this commitment is concrete and effective in the choice of the Government to put in place resources for 800 million and administrative simplifications in order to realize, of course, the Bonifiche external to the site and to finance the medium and long term program for health security. But that's not all there is. Here the decree-law contains a relevant novelty. Those resources, 800 million (I repeat, since I have just heard that there is no money), serve to widen the port, for the accommodation and the valorization of the old city, to guarantee the tourist attraction of Taranto also arranging as a cultural pole the great area of the military arsenal. There are resources, technical equipment and tools to involve universities, research centres and public administration in an effort to revive the city, its culture, its spaces, as well as its economy. Here it is more evident an important figure of the decree-law under consideration, the fact that one overcomes the logic of the emergency, looks to the future, does not stop at the reclamations and environmentalization, but there is a commitment of the State to return to Taranto quality, attractiveness and also future. Although the environmental part of the decree-law under consideration is important, because settlement and reclamation are priority and the fulfilment of Europe's recovery obligations is guaranteed by the measure, we do not stop here but look to the future. In this regard, on the environmental issue, I would like to highlight only two choices in the decree-law. The first is to set certain dates for the implementation of the requirements contained in the integrated environmental authorisation, which must end in August 2016 after a monitoring plan requiring the commissioner of the Bonifications to submit to the Ministry and ISPRA a report on the state of the works. So, Senator Maurizio Romani, no construction site opens without the prospect of closing, but there are certain times. In the same way, certain deadlines are set, speeding up the authorisation procedures for waste disposal and landfill management, also setting penalties for those who do not comply with the deadlines set. We have, therefore, certainty of the times and no opening of yards that will never close, but also definitive statements present in the decree-law of a principle consistent with the European norms, that is that according to which the polluter pays, that here is applied: 1,2 billion euros of the Riva will finance the interventions in order to meet the requirements of the Integrated Environmental Authorization. It is an important fact, a due act, a significant precedent. Others will deepen the numerous norms contained in the decree-law on environmental matters. I conclude by saying that today we have an opportunity to adopt a good law to which the Senate and the Commissions concerned have given and will make a real contribution. It is a work that has improved an important standard, which - I mean again - exceeds the logic of the emergency (I say this to my colleagues who have legitimately criticized the decree-law here). It's time we didn't just look today. Certainly now the health of the tarantinos must be restored and protected quickly, and the decree-law does so, but the great positivity of this rule lies in the fact that it looks to the future of the Italian steel industry and above all - I mean - to the future of Taranto and its citizens who will no longer be forced to live in a degraded area and - above all - to have absurdly to choose every day of their lives between work and health. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u56	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u57	Madam President, here we are discussing yet another emergency measure. We believe that the Government could have adopted another measure: a measure that could overcome the irremediable contrast, which now is proposed for the seventh time in the case of ILVA, between the interest in productivity, which has a considerable economic impact on our country, and the health and life of men, and that could identify paths to safeguard our economy, but - indeed - also the men who give their lives for it. We would like to start with what emerged in the hearings. We are told that ILVA is very efficient. We would have been surprised at the opposite, since for years he has been dumping the health and environmental costs of his activity on the community. Under these conditions, any company would be able to offer performance, performance from primacy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It seems to me that the word "exteriority" is a taboo, but it should be the first factor to consider when designing any standard or industrial policy, simply because sooner or later you pay. We have also been told that ILVA is attractive even for foreign investors, which we also heard at the hearing. Meanwhile, we do not see the line to take over the company, then we must not forget the experience of the Terni plant, with ThyssenKrupp that brought to Germany the highest value added production and left in Umbria that of stainless steel, more exposed to foreign competition. Some have also contested the data provided by the Medical Association for the environment, as it considers not scientifically proven the direct correlation between the increase of pathologies and deaths in the Tamburi and Borgo districts and the industrial activity of the ILVA. Who knows why, however, the speakers yesterday rushed to submit an amendment with which state resources are allocated for interventions for prevention and care in the field of pediatric onco-hematology in the Province of Taranto. Audits were then asked to compare the Taranto plant with other European steel mills, but above all to know, for example, whether mineral park cover had been made elsewhere. Probably, the goal was to hear what you like best to come to the conclusion that some valid AIA prescriptions are fanciful and bizarre. But the other European steel poles do not constantly store, as is the case with ILVA, heaps of dangerous materials 40 meters high, nor do they have houses just 200 meters away. We wonder if we had a duty to do something more on this occasion. We are all aware that Ilva's steel plant is Europe's largest steel production hub. We know, however, that it has always been managed with a logic aimed at obtaining profit and not respectful of the health of people, workers and the resident population, and much less of the health of the environment, an indispensable resource for any civil community. We know that some illustrious exponent of the Riva family, who have been arrested, is still unavailable, that the site of Taranto was inserted among the reclamation sites of national interest 16 years ago. We know that in all these years there has been no conversion, no investment in innovation and research has been made to reduce polluting emissions. Only the intervention of the judiciary has awakened the public administration: only the intervention of the judiciary. This is yet another failure of politics. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There is no trace in the decree-law of conversion projects, there are no new resources for reclamations, there are no concrete interventions for a narrow city in the grip of an old city that collapses and a new area that kills. We wonder whether, at least on this occasion, we should not go into the substance of all the amendments and overcome the traditional combination of majority and opposition. I could list here all the common sense amendments that you could have considered. I refer to the amendments which removed the exclusion of the civil and criminal liability of Commissioners, on which the Justice Commission has also expressed itself, to the amendment on assets intended that, unlike the amendments of the Government and President Mucchetti, applies to all companies of national strategic interest that could be admitted to the extraordinary administration procedure, to the forecast in the context of the private negotiation aimed at favoring the subjects in possession of technologies and production processes with low environmental impact, to the interventions relating to the reclamation of the Small Sea also requested by Commissioner Corbelli. You see, no worker can feel protected if he lacks the guarantee of minimal living conditions and no dignity - I add - there can be in case the work does not take place in safety conditions for the health of the worker himself and his family. Nobody feels protected by a decree-law that authorizes to continue the activity without the realization of all the measures envisaged to protect the citizens, a realization that is procrastinated. Once again we pay for the grave errors and omissions committed by politics, which has downloaded the profits of few on the suffering of many. Once again we continue with an industrial policy of at least half a century, without even trying to think of alternative visions that project us in a different future, where we must not always go down to very painful compromises between the right to work and that to health. Yet examples of this have already been made with great success in other countries: has this government noticed? You have been led by those who are far from the problems, by those who see from above a territory that is not only made of heavy industry and strongly, dramatically devastating. Ladies and gentlemen, those who put dust under the carpet are at the maximum risk of tripping or creating some hygienic problem; heavily polluting an entire territory leaves a very heavy legacy that only the future will be able to quantify and judge. We don't want to live with hope, we want to live with certainty. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u58	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we learn from the newspapers that the Government intends to put the question of trust in this decree-law. There is no point in remembering that this way attempts are being made to artificially coagulate the votes of a ghost majority and to impose a line that excludes any confrontation with the other forces of Parliament. Supporting the question of trust is yet another act of political madness and institutional contempt because the government prevents Parliament from performing its constitutional functions and amending a decree-law that contains many critical points. We wonder what the left would have said if the parties were reversed; if a center-right government had passed a decree-law to regulate the ILVA affair and assumed to have it approved without change with confidence. Most likely there would have been a political and media campaign focused on government authoritarianism and the lack of democratic dialogue and confrontation in our country. Let us remember, however, the scenes in which the parliamentarians of the left made themselves champions of the protection of the Constitution, the last guarantors of the survival of democracy in Italy against the Berlusconi Government, guilty of making an excessive and reckless recourse to the issue of trust. I would like to point out, however, that the figures say something else: the Renzi Government, on the left, in a year forced this Parliament to the instrument of confidence 29 times, with an average of almost 3 trust votes every month, while the last center-right government in three and a half years stopped at 53, with an average of 1.2 vote of confidence per month. With regard to the content of the decree-law, we are well aware that the rules in question attempt to regulate a complicated issue of national importance, in which the survival of one of the few large Italian companies remaining and, with it, thousands of jobs is at stake. But for us Christians life is sacred and comes first of all; before any economic need or recovery of industrial production. We who see Christ in every human being think that the real priorities are represented by the protection of the territory and the health of the citizens. For every activity of the ILVA plants we must be able to guarantee the protection of health, as a fundamental right of the individual and as an interest of the community, both constitutionally guaranteed by Article 32. There is another profile that emerges in this provision and that seems dissonant with respect to the foundations of our democracy and the fundamental principles of the Constitution. I refer to the rule of Article 2 (6) of the Decree-Law, which creates a free zone for the action of the Extraordinary Commissioner and his delegates. In particular, it is stated that the conducts for the implementation of the recovery plan cannot give rise to criminal or administrative liability because they are defined a priori and ex lege compliance with the best preventive rules in the environmental field, protection of health and public safety and safety at work. We wonder how this prediction of complete criminal and administrative irresponsibility, established by decree of urgency, can be compatible with the norm of our order, that is to say with Article 3 of the Constitution, which says that "all citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law". ILVA, in fact, will not have to pay the 30 billion euros required by the hundreds of civil parts admitted in the trial: it has been denied, therefore, any form of law for all those workers and citizens who have been, are and will remain victims of squalid economic profits and a government of the left blind and distant from them. The unconscious victims of this disaster were physically and psychologically affected by the Taranto giant but, thanks to this government and this left-wing majority, they will be affected in their dignity as human beings and citizens, depriving them of compensation. The compensation would not give back to them the loved ones, it would not have given them the healing, but at least it would have sanctioned the net line, which must exist and which must exist in a State, worthy of being called such, between "guilt," "victim" and "right." We are concerned that this decree-law does not solve the ILVA issue at all, but rather complicates it even more. Briefly retracing the events that have led us to this point, I recall that since the seizure of July 2012 seven measures have followed, which have helped to create a management of the crisis slow and imprisoned bureaucracy. Almost three years have passed since the company's headquarters, production has dropped dramatically by more than half of the potential capacity of the plants and there is no money to pay the suppliers and companies of the pipeline. This decree-law could have been a first step towards resolving this transitional phase of the company if adequate economic resources had been allocated to the underlying measures. On the other hand, the Government has been evasive with respect to the requests for clarification made by the Commissions, which have been continuously forced to cancel and postpone meetings, because even the representative of the Government was not able to interpret the guidelines of the Executive. The senators were forced to examine the text of a decree-law for which the Government had yet to find the keystone of political time, i.e. to find the resources. The problem has always been to make it clear how much money to make available and where to find them. It is clear to everyone how important it is to guarantee protection to all those ILVA companies, which are currently waiting for payments of around 150 million euros. ILVA's production processes must resume at full speed and as soon as possible. On the other hand we must recognize the fundamental importance of the environmental rehabilitation of the productive sites and of the whole area of the city and the port of Taranto. We must ensure that all the procedures laid down in the recovery plan are complied with and that all obligations are completed in the manner and in the time required. Once again, unfortunately, the final solution of the Government will not allow to guarantee the continuity of work, neither an increase in productivity, nor the recovery and environmental protection. The protection of employment and the economic revival of the site and the induced and the safeguard of the territories are objectives that this decree-law does not even manage to approach, representing unfortunately yet another provisional and incomplete intervention of the ILVA affair. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Scilypoti. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I ask you for 30 more seconds, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please Senator Scilipoti: 30 seconds. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude my speech by quoting not one of the many intellectuals, economists and scholars, but I would like to make you hear the simple and touching words of one of the many victims of Ilva, Amedeo Zaccaria, father of Francis, who died at 29 on a crane, working in Ilva: "Decree saves ILVA"? Let's call him by his real name: it's yet another decree killing people. This is yet another political manoeuvre for Rivas to save money on people's lives. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] Since I lost my son, I have also lost faith in any institution, I have had a heart attack on the anger accumulated over the years. The reality is simple: some people at Ilva provided coal. Well, as a father, I'm telling you that today I feel treated like a supplier. The supplier of a human life: that of my son, who is worth as much as coal, if not less so. I believe that these simple words do not need to be commented upon. I just hope that the Left Government will have the courage and dignity to listen to Amedeo Zechariah's words. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u60	She is registered to speak Senator Fabbri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u61	Madam President, I give up my speech and ask you to attach the text to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u62	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u63	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u64	Madam President, after three years and seven decrees, the pollution referred to in the 2012 seizure did not stop. A trial for a crime is under way and this crime is still under way. But there is one difference: before it was a private criminal (i.e. it was polluting), while now it is the State, at the hands of three commissioners. This is the reason why, in Article 2 of Decree-Law No 1 of 5 January 2015, the rule of non-penalty for criminal and administrative offences has been inserted accordingly. This is something that has no precedent in our parliamentary term. We have a response to that Alitalia safeguard rule, which has also been mentioned, but with clear differences due to it. In fact, in Alitalia there were time limits and also procedural limits, because there was a time limit, due to the impunity, that had to be prior to the events happened before the measure and was not extended also to the criminal offence. It is important to remember that the Commission then gave a favourable opinion conditional on the fact that it did not extend to criminal offences. This is not the case with Ilva: it does not happen today and, above all, because of some amendments, it does not even happen with the limitation for the manslaughter, being inserted also the arson. We are certainly aware of the complexity of the facts and the intrinsic and strategic national value of an enterprise like that of the ILVA, which has many employees and many workers in the induced. 18.28 (Nugnes follow). However, after three years and seven decrees, we find ourselves without a comprehensive project and without a reference industrial economic framework, either in the short, medium or long term. It was always my basic question to the commissioners and auditors. There is no such plan, yet it is decided to safeguard the industrial process in a very serious crisis, with a financial deficit that is below 3 billion, with claims for compensation of several tens of billions and with ten-year environmental problems that, according to the judiciary, amount to a value (which was then reduced, but whose figure struck me and I want to repeat it, because, in some way, it is approaching the truth) of 7,8 billion non-spending resources of the Rivas from 1990 to today; that is, of lack of maintenance and modernization works. It is all money that has fallen on the shoulders of the territory and on the health of the citizens, but also on another type of development that would have been possible and on other economies that have been denied. Of course, in this measure have been added ancillary works, also important, have been announced reclamations and investments, have been moved funds already allocated for the hydrogeological failure, for example, on other emergencies (the Cemerad); and it has not wanted to do otherwise. Compensation has been given due to the territory, which is nothing more than tips to the Puglia Region. We saw Vendola coming here with negative evaluations and not listening to the ARPA on the cycle of waste and landfills in one hand, together with the very serious health assessment and, in the other, the demands, albeit lawful, of men and equipment, reinforcement of a Region; demands also lawful, but that should never be trade goods; yet they were, in our opinion. And yet, net of all these evaluations, what does it look like? It appears that the first to be safeguarded by this Decree-Law No. 1 are nothing but banks with their credits, as always. We have instead turned around the environmental issue; for three years we turn around and we know that there was already a previous ten-year delay. Yet we are with this AIA, which on the one hand is considered insufficient by the ARPA Puglia, the ASL, the ISDE and above all by the technical reports of the judicial guardians; on the other hand, we have government measures and declarations by the Government that tend to devalue the necessary operations of this AIA, which procrastinate the realization of the works and aim essentially at a sale. It has been said, it has been said that it will probably take less than 1.2 billion and it will be done with the balances. It was said by the President of the 10th Commission. This issue, among other things, is also linked to an attempt to place this March 2012 AIA review as an excess and an oversizing of demands, because it goes beyond what the European limits are. Yet we all know that Ilva is Europe's largest steel plant and that it is the only place so close to a neighborhood; the Tamburi neighborhood. Schools are 12 a few hundred metres from the fireplace; mining dust on the ground is visible. They've been stretched out to protect from the past, but more poison has settled on it. And we all remember that the Consulta rejected the appeal of the court and the gip, deposed by the first ILVA decree that bypassed the preemptive seizure without the right to use the hot plants of the ILVA, provided however that the prescriptions were carried out in the times and in the manner indicated. In summary, the choice of the extraordinary administration referred to in the decree-law, evaluated by many as positive and necessary,... president. You should finish, Senator Nugnes. NUGNES (M5S). ...is a clear political choice to continue to move without taking into account the real prospects of recovering economic equilibrium and entrepreneurial activities. In practice we do not know, because there is a lack of an industrial plan, if this still long and expensive operation will have positive results for the production and the occupation, but we certainly know that the payments of those who have done a job for the Ilva and now for the State will be delayed... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Nugnes. NUGNES (M5S). ...and all civil reparations, because this is the reason why Taranto's gup did not accept damages claims, which amount to tens of billions, advanced by the civil side in the criminal trial "Environment sold." An affront. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u65	Senator Gambaro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in line with what has been said on many occasions in this context and in the Commission, I should first of all like to point out - as other Members have already done - that I find the obsessive use of the government's urgent decree to be schizophrenic. The use of the urgent decree for such complex matters, so important for the life and health of Italian citizens, as well as for the discipline of companies of national interest, I think we can define a real political force, regardless of the substance of the rule under consideration. The intricate network of laws that have followed on the ILVA have, over time, determined a progressive exauteration of the competences ordinarily attributed to the agencies in the face of an increasing power provided to the commissioners, parallel to which, there has not been a corresponding level of protection of the environment and of the health of the people. In fact, with this measure, we are witnessing, as we have already seen, but it is useful to repeat, the introduction of the criminal and administrative impunity of the extraordinary commissioner and of the subjects by these delegates. The rule introduces an unusual legal theorem that I believe must be dealt with with with more reflection. To argue that the conduct put in place and in implementation of the plan does not give rise to criminal or administrative liability as these constitute compliance with the best environmental preventive rules, the protection of public health and safety and safety at work, means postulate that the Commissioner, by definition, works well and pro bono. Basically, regardless of any external evaluation or third-party control, it is a sort of free zone in which those who work find themselves covered by immunity not supported by any legal requirement. It is certain, arbitrarily and presumably, that the Commissioner will work best and correctly, free from respect for a time schedule of activities and without clarifying the technical and scientific foundations laid on the basis of the questionable principle. Sancirre all this, in the epoch in which everyone knows an incontrovertible fact, that of bad extraordinary commissioners the history of this country is full of it, I find it too risky and in contrast to what people ask and to the demands of collective and democratic transparency. However, given that, in any regulatory intervention of an innovative type, which has as its object such imposing and important structures, and in this case the largest steel plant in Europe, a serious legislator and a balanced administrator must always put before two fundamental reasons and two objectives, namely the safeguarding of employment levels and sustainable productivity. This standard also presents some aspects that I welcome as the positive attempt to simplify governance and the reunification of the tables for the implementation of the interventions. However, this does not prevent me from seeing before me a gloomy picture, the future of the health of tarantinos, which this measure does not help to clarify. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u68	President, representatives of the Government, colleagues, we have heard in the speeches of the two rapporteurs the two main characteristics of the decree-law at our examination. The ratio of the measure should be found in the objective of overcoming the tragic impasse of the ILVA, i.e. getting out of the alternative work against the environment. A careful examination of the decree-law does not lead us to such conclusion. In fact, the most significant part of the same is aimed at better defining the figure of the extraordinary commissioner and his powers, but from it cannot emerge an optimistic vision about the fate of the citizenship of Taranto and the workers of the Ilva. All the rules concerning the implementation of the environmental plan constitute only a small and timid step forward compared to what was planned by Decree-Law No 136 of 2013. In other words, this provision has produced a kind of break-in with respect to the decree-law of the Led Government, but nothing more. The most attentive observer, re-reading the decree-law, will conclude that issues relating to the employment problem and the protection of the right to health remain unresolved. We read in the text at our examination a series of statements and principles that will certainly not change the fate of Taranto. Going down in detail, we can verify what happens to the company after the approval of the decree-law. The positive consequences will be very few. Certainly the role and powers of the Extraordinary Commissioner from the formal point of view will be more incisive and leaner. But the most obvious question is: what financial resources will be used for these strengthened powers? The decree-law refers to the phantom sum of 1.2 billion seized by the Milanese judiciary. I say "fantomatica" not because it does not exist, but because it presents serious problems of use. In fact, from the hearings held in the Commission it was learned that the measure, as issued by the Government, makes it impossible to use those sums: what was possible with the decree-law of the Letta Government becomes not practicable with the present text. In this sense, very explicit and interesting was the hearing of the assistant prosecutor of the Milan court, Dr. Greco. It would seem that the examination of the two Commissions has overcome these findings, but the most likely hypothesis is that the amounts seized may only be available for the outcome of criminal proceedings involving ILVA. And if so, then that company would remain inert and agonizing, involving in its financial euthanasia also the socio-economic fate of the ionic city. We have tried, moreover, to strengthen the legal status, the subjective condition of the extraordinary Commissioner, making it almost legibus solutus. Significant is the rule introduced by Article 2, sixth paragraph, which provides for a sort of safe conduct, a singular species of immunity for the commissioner and his delegates. Such a case is perplexing and we have already heard a great deal about the unconstitutionality of this rule. To use the words of Taranto's prosecutor, Dr. Sebastius: who are the commissioner's delegates? Are they the closest collaborators? Are they ILVA employees? Are they external technicians responsible for this? As you can see, this is a far too nuanced rule, which will, if ever adopted, be a very dangerous precedent. The question of the deadlines for implementing the environmental plan is also significant and emblematic. The deadline of 31 July 2015 is certainly unrealizable. On the other hand, if we consider that from August 2013 to today almost nothing has happened, what hope can we have to catch that ambitious goal by next summer? These reflections on some novelties of the decree-law lead us to believe that the company ILVA will hardly be able to continue to operate and much less can be healed from the financial point of view and from the environmental one, if the presuppositions are those contained in the text of the provision. Many clouds then thicken on the future of the company. At the same time, the jobs provided by the company itself and the company are increasingly at risk. In this respect, the plaintiffs in the claims brought by the undertakings of the undertaking in question. In recent weeks there have been protests, meetings and tables, but against ILVA's 250 million debt to the induced companies, perhaps a few tens of millions will come. And if so, how many companies will remain on the market? How many employees will keep their jobs? In the debate over the past few weeks we have tried to divert the attention of the professionals and public opinion, highlighting the part of the decree-law concerning the futuristic project of redevelopment of the city of Taranto. The idea is certainly suggestive, but it has two huge limits. The first concerns the lack of financial resources to achieve it. In fact, returning to a subsequent CIPE resolution means little or nothing. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri happily recalled the difference in treatment suffered by Taranto compared to other cities. For Piombino, in an identical case, since it was also a steel company, the resources identified were objective and certain, while for the ionic city it is a matter of drawing, at the moment, from the book of dreams. The second limit of this retraining project concerns the implementation time and the real employment impact. As we all know, the redevelopment of an urban centre takes a very long time and only after a few decades can it really produce and promote new economic activities with a significant increase in jobs. To sum up: in the face of a future, distant and difficult revival of the city, in the present we will have to live with a polluted city, with a company halved and with the economic system of the induced paralyzed and started to a tragic fate. [[Recalls of the President]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by briefly mentioning the issue of the health of citizens. Of the resources for the oncology well said Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, the same can be said of ARPA Puglia, but nobody has evidenced that the problem pollution not only concerns Taranto and the finite centers, but an entire area that includes the Salento peninsula and what was once called the land of Otranto. We can therefore only conclude that this decree-law also bears the signature and is registered in the distinctive register of the magician, Premier Renzi, who promises, deludes, but continues not to do. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u69	Senator Sollo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u70	Mr President, I will use only a few seconds of the time available to me to optimize the time, as President Grasso would say, but above all to give my group's colleagues the opportunity to use it. For this reason, I ask the Presidency to be able to hand over the text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the acts.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u71	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u72	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u73	Mr President, today we are debating the seventh Ilva Decree-Law. Now, if a decree-law is an emerging measure to heal a problem and if we're at attempt no. 7, it means that the previous ones were failures. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What do we call this decree-law? Save ILVA? Save Riva? Save banks? When will a decree-law save Taranto or save tarantini? We are aware, President, that Ilva is the first integrated steel mill in Italy, and the second in Europe, and that more than 45% of the entire Italian steel production is produced in Taranto. We know the strategic importance of ILVA, but we must demand that every political decision is the result of a balance of interests and not an issue aimed at protecting an exclusive economic interest. What we are witnessing in recent weeks is just another episode of a theatre in which the director, the government, has once again put aside those who were supposed to be the main protagonists: the Taranto citizens. The Government, in fact, could and should have listened to citizens, associations, companies and adopted a single serious measure that could find a balance between the various subjects. As Einaudi said, "know to deliberate" and not to issue emergency commercial decrees to protect only one of these subjects. The ILVA case is mistakenly compared to others in Europe, but it is wrong, because in no part of Europe there are steel works near the city centre; in Taranto the first houses are already 200 meters from the plant, in no part of Europe stands a site of this magnitude in an area intended for agricultural use. The situation is complex because we are going to touch on three fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution: the right to health, environmental protection and the right to work. The citizens, Taranto, the companies, deserved attention, time and concrete solutions, instead once again we will face a failure of the Italian Government and the work in the Commissions is the exact copy. We did not want to listen to our most important proposals. You will certainly put trust here in this House, but it is as if you had done so in the Commission too, by dismissing Parliament from its duties. Our judgment on this decree-law is absolutely negative, and we are not the only ones to say it, but all the subjects involved and also the magistrates who at the hearing literally threw this decree-law into the shredder. So let's talk about the extraordinary administration, the first effect of this decree of the Renzi Government was that the judge of the preliminary hearing in the process called "Selled Environment" immediately rejected the claims for damages made by those who were the victim of pollution of the production site of Taranto. Then there are the companies, that in these years have always guaranteed the productive continuity of the ILVA, that in order to collect their credits they will have to stand in line and rely on the fate, provided that in the meantime they do not fail waiting to have as much as they owe, and be careful that the credit of the suppliers piles to well 435 million euros. We elected citizens of the 5 Star Movement pay half of our salary in the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, every month for two years. You, and I mean all of you, are waving everywhere your great desire to help ILVA's supplying companies. Well, then we asked you for an act of responsibility by tabling two amendments asking you to withdraw money to help companies from the party financing fund rather than using the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises. You voted no. Woe if you touch your pocket, right? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Shame on you. But again, let's talk about the implementation of the AIA, already extended by law by the Decree-Review Act AIA; we are already three years late. Pursuant to paragraph 5 of Article 2, the plan shall be implemented if at least 80% of the requirements due at that date have been implemented by 31 July 2015. The decree-law does not indicate which requirements are most urgent; you have given a numerical and non-qualitative percentage of the interventions. So for you the cover of the mining park is comparable to that of the installation of a danger sign. We had proposed to give priority to the very necessary and urgent interventions for the protection of health and the environment, but for you environment and health are just words to use for your hashtags and on Twitter. As when your "capetto" announced the decree-law on Twitter, he wrote that there was a project for Taranto that concerned not only ILVA, and he tweeted: culture, port, reclamations, hospital. Then you go open the decree-law and you don't find any of this, the absolute zero. From the Sentieri study last July, which was based on the data of the health company in Taranto, emerges an excess of infant mortality since the first year of life, in short a genocide. What you don't want to understand, or rather pretend you don't understand, is that if the sources of pollution don't stop, what's the point of all this? In short, President, this is as if a murderer was being tried and in the meantime he is allowed to kill again. With a novelty, however, because now with this decree-law to commit the crime will be the State. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And it is precisely for this reason that you have thought well to include in this measure a real immunity for the extraordinary commissioner and for the subjects from this functionally delegated: a total exclusion of criminal and administrative responsibility for the conducts put in place in the implementation of the plan referred to in the decree of 14 March 2014. So you're declaring by law that the state can continue to pollute to save a private company. This is yet another slap on the victims of Taranto and their families. I quote the words of Mr Amedeo Zaccaria who lost his son Francesco, an Ilva worker, who said: I feel treated like a supplier. The supplier of a human life: my son's. A human life is likened to a commodity and it's a hateful thing. Let's go to the reclamations. It was thought to find funds for the reclamation of the ex Cemerad area highly polluted by radioactive waste: 10 million euros. Well, it's a pity that you took the money out of the fund already allocated to the Puglia Region for the hydrogeological disaster, and only thanks to an agenda of the 5 Star Movement we got the government's commitment to restore this fund. Moreover we have obtained the commitment of the Government to revise the perimeter of the area SIN of Taranto in order to return also the Tamburi district, that incredibly it had remained excluded, and to activate itself in order to be respected the agreement for the recovery of the Small Sea, that already previewed from 2004 an appropriation from the Region Puglia of well 21 million euros until today not made available. Citizens, the Renzi Government has sanctioned a new principle: those who pollute do not pay. This decree-law does not solve the environmental problem, it does not protect the health of the citizens, it does not help the workers, it does not help the companies of the induced because the ILVA is destined to close. The only thing this decree-law does is to give yet another state aid to a private company and precisely to Riva, who in recent years have generously paid for your election campaigns. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I mean, who is this government working for? [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u74	He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u75	Mr President, the measure we are dealing with is yet another piece of legislation to address the needs of the ILVA plant in Taranto and the environmental situation in the vast Taranto area. It is understandable that a special situation, as has been defined, is dealt with by a special measure, but only one, I would say, clear and definitive. I would like to make a few points which have not been completely clarified in the Commission's work. Perhaps it will be the last decree-law, we hope, but it will still be necessary a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers to establish the rules governing the newco, which will have to ferry the ILVA to the market. The general forecasts have been included in Decree-Law No. 3 of 2015 where a rule is provided for the establishment of a public limited company for the capitalization and restructuring of companies. The company is set up with the aim of promoting and carrying out restructuring operations, supporting and rebalancing the financial structure of companies, promoting, inter alia, industrial consolidation processes. The model reminds us a bit of IRE, the Institute for Industrial Reconstruction. On the platter, resources are placed on the guarantee fund for companies' claims against the public administration, on which 1,000 million were placed. However, it should be stressed that the plan, which goes through the use of newco, must first verify compatibility with European State aid rules. But, above all, we believe that the public hand must remain on the steel company for a limited period and strictly necessary to put it back on the market, also in the light of the contents referred to the drafting of an industrial plan beyond to come, and to date, of course, not known. The same presentation of the industrial plan is the result of an amendment request also supported by Forza Italia. It is necessary to have a clear and reliable framework, in which ILVA's debts are articulated, who the creditors are, what kind of companies constitute the whole of the creditors to which must be guaranteed, together with the workers obviously, priority forms of access to their credit, this must take place, first of all, at the time of the extraordinary administration, which must not be a step in which, derogating from the rules in force, someone is downloaded before the move to the newco, where ultimately the guarantee for the companies of the induced so far involved must continue. Above all, it is necessary to give priority to creditors who have achieved the necessary performances for the implementation of interventions on the protection of the environment and the health of citizens and areas affected by environmental pollution; but, in particular, to creditors who have guaranteed the productive continuity of Ilva, and on which we cannot now think of downloading the cost of the reorganization of the company. What is the exact amount of the claims and which creditors, considering that estimates of the Milan court speak of 250 companies and up to 600 million euros of credit in the induced, but within the framework of 2.9 billion total debts according to the estimates? Before any intervention, it is necessary to have - as many of my previous colleagues have said - a precise and reliable figure. This applies to each of the shares that the decree-law provides for. Suppliers who have interrupted their supplies to ILVA also have reasons to listen to and must be involved first in the company's debt-stopping procedures, in a short time and through simple application procedures. I would like to say a few words about the unreliability of the data on the amounts actually available and the time limits for access to these sums, because it makes, in my view, all the measures contained in the measure we are examining extremely vulnerable. We are talking first of all of 1.2 billion, but they do serve a procedure that is far from simple: a part is abroad and requires international letters, with subsequent interventions certainly exposed to the bureaucratic barriers always high in our country. There could be about 156 million Fintecnas. In the amendment proposal, Forza Italia had also proposed to supplement the figure, bringing it with a special allocation of 200 million. Some 400 million could be made available from the support fund for small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, the resources of the Development and Cohesion Fund could be available to continue the redevelopment of the Taranto area. There should be at least 10 million for landfills. There are - it seems, following the amendment adopted this afternoon - 5 million of the funds to be allocated by the Ministry of Economy for activities in the field of health-oncology, the result of an amendment tabled by Forza Italia, however modified in terms of worsening. There have been a number of criticisms of the cover taken, both in purely technical terms - for example by the Senate Budget Service - and in accordance with Article 81, by the Senate Budget Committee. With regard to the actual availability of resources, I believe that the more than 14,000 workers deserve precise answers to their future employment, together with the more than 8,000 employees in the pipeline. I would also call for the utmost caution and attention at all stages and in all corporate and equity transactions, especially since the measure activates the possibilities of private negotiation procedures: first, because the history of the state-of-the-art and restoration of Italian companies has shown us outstanding cases of corruption, and then because the investigations in Milan hypothesize a series of crimes already in the administration of the Riva family, which invite maximum prudence and suggest to follow with maximum transparency all the stages of industrial consolidation and the consequent management of the market. I'd like to make another note. In particular, it seems to us that there are no clear rules - and therefore a definite path - regarding the involvement of private subjects, first in the capital of the newco and then - if it will be - in the acquisition of the ILVA restored. In this direction a specific amendment of Forza Italia not approved was developed. It should not be forgotten that ILVA is an industrial reality that involves not only the pole of Taranto, but also other industrial activities of Genoa, Novi Ligure, Racconigi, Marghera, Patrica, with the consequent necessity to relate the initiatives that refer to Taranto with the activity of the electro-surgical complexes of the North, in the framework of an industrial perspective that takes into account the location of our country in the European and world steel market. In making a further remark, a further lack of perspective should be highlighted. The large territorial area affected by the environmental and health consequences (hundreds of square kilometres), connected with the presence of polluting activities, requires documentary management and support to the decisions evolved technologically and operationally unitary. There is no trace of this objective in the indications of the decree-law, although the numerous hearings have highlighted the extreme division of decision-making centres to the detriment of timely and coordinated decisions. In conclusion, the clear and strong signs that the situation would have required, especially in terms of resources and speed of action in favour of health, the environment and employment, do not come at the moment. The one on the agenda - in our opinion - is still a buffer, characterized by a lack of capacity to solve structurally the great problem that ILVA represents. We will be easy prophets if we say that, at the end of the procedures provided for in this decree-law, we will again face a series of unresolved problems, which will force the adoption of new emergency measures, with consequent delay to the detriment of the citizens of the affected area, of the workers and of the numerous enterprises that operate daily to guarantee the subsistence of the production of steel in our country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u76	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u77	Mr President, the decree saves ILVA in question is yet another decree-law issued to deal with the long-standing and complicated situation of the ILVA in Taranto. After the decree-laws of the Monti Government (nn. 129 and 207 of 2012), in the current legislature we have converted decrees-laws no. 61, 101 and 136 in 2013 and 91 in 2014, and the delirium of omnipotence and "onnilegiferanza" pushed this Government to give up the rest of the seventh day to issue the seventh decree-law. However, if someone deluded himself that, after six tests, the compulsion to repeat could be resolved in a perfect measure, he disilludes: the decree-law under consideration presents the same criticalities and the same problems as the previous ones, because the problem has not been solved at the root in the proper ways. Obviously, the measure has its reasons: it suffices to think that the closure of the ILVA would have devastating consequences on the national economy, expected that the steel production of the ILVA in Taranto represents 40% of the national requirements. A closed ILVA would mean, in terms of employment, a loss of 12,000 jobs. In view of the whole situation, it would be a socially unacceptable disaster from an economic point of view. However, obviously after seven decree-laws from 2012 to 2015, the urgency, if it had to exist, has passed and the criticalities are all there, starting from article 2, paragraph 5, in which it is stated that, by July 31, 2015, 80 percent of the prescribed measures must be fulfilled, but it is not well specified how and when and, therefore, what prescribed measures. At the same time, the same generality is also given to Article 6, where it is established that the Commissioner must prepare a programme of medium and long-term measures for the reclamation, for the environmentalization and redevelopment of the entire area of Taranto with high environmental crisis, but with not fixed times. This indeterminateness in the prescription is obviously critical because, remaining the risk, the health risk also persists. And so I come to the heart of the question, that is to say the reason why the problem has not been solved, remembering that in Italy the things you know are not used and logic is always put in the background. There has been a great confusion between references to the VIS (health impact assessment) and to health damage, which is by definition posthumous damage to exposure. So if we go to assess the effect of damage on health, we should refer to all the components that have caused damage to health, because no one denies the damage to health. Already in Edo Ronchi's time a report on environment and health was commissioned, drawn up in 1997 by the European Environment and Health Centre of the World Health Organization, which was then in Rome. In that study, following the examination of data from 1980 to 1987, there was an increase in the incidence of cancer mortality by 10%, in particular for pleural cancer up to 39 percent, among other things with a uniform incidence between men and women, while the incidence of other types of cancer among women was much lower. The thing that strikes is that, if you go to see the tables, the data that comes out, then merged into the well-known SENTIERI, together with those of AIRTUM and ARPA, do not correspond in the end to those that the same authors have written. There is, therefore, a great confusion and the thing that surprises me most is that one has lost what is at the basis of a cause-effect correlation, namely the famous five criteria of Hill, namely consistency, strength, specificity, temporality and consistency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u78	I invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u79	FUCKSIA (M5S). In conclusion, Mr President, I remember that we had up to 30,000 workers. Well, today we are at the paradox that we have almost more data on the population that does not work, with reference to a certain environment of life, than to workers. Why didn't you collect this data? We have a very good competent doctor for ten years, who could have provided a lot of data for free. One could invest in this, because it is obvious that a person who works at ILVA has a much higher risk exposure than a person who does not work in those establishments. Instead we throw away money and invest not thinking about the effectiveness of the results. In short, the concern is to claim compensation more than to invest well. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u80	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u81	Mr President, I would like to address my fellow Members who are speaking: I feel that I am Gentiloni in the House this morning, during his information on the problems of ISIS. Well, Mr President, the countdown on the very heavy issue of the ILVA seemed to have started definitively on 24 December last year, when the Decree-Law on the fate of the ILVA was adopted in the Council of Ministers. To say that the solution is easy is not clearly serious, it is not at all. But it has been two or three years, President, that the largest steel mill in Europe is in a very complicated situation, because of the environmental events that have led the judiciary in Taranto to seize all or most of the plants. The plants that have been seized with good reason are considered the productive heart of the steel plant and about 75 percent of them are subjected to a restrictive measure that seems almost a sort of kidnapping of person, because the employed workers can no longer work. Then there is some debt, some bank exposure of 1.3 billion or probably something more. We are therefore still talking about Ilva, despite the fact that ad hoc legislation has already been adopted and specific amendments introduced into other measures have been adopted. Listening to many interventions, however, it seems that the ILVA crisis has absolutely not resolved (when we talk about ILVA we also refer to other systems connected to it). So, yet another decree-law - perhaps the seventh - but I believe that the Government's commitment is not at all over. I am referring, in particular, to the Ministry of Development to which it belongs, and not from now - perhaps we are already late - a task that is not easy, but certainly no longer eluding: to equip this blessed country with an industrial policy adapted to global competition. It will be necessary to decide a good time on which industrial sectors to focus and, above all, how to support them. In this way we could finally stop suffering one crisis after another and set not only the recovery - a recovery that seems to me to see only the Premier at the moment - but also the industrial future of our country. I would also like to make a brief mention of the fact that the prolonged crisis beyond any limit has inflicted wounds on the social fabric of our country and has put to the test the holding of its productive system. It has increased injustices, has generated new forms of poverty, has produced marginalization and loneliness. Anguish lurks in so many families that their children's future is taken away from. The work that is lacking for so many young people (especially in the Mezzogiorno), the loss of employment, exclusion, the difficulties encountered in obtaining the delivery of fundamental social rights: these are the points of the "demanding" agenda with which the closeness of the institutions to the people will be measured. We must be able to avoid the risk that the economic crisis will affect respect for the principles and values on which the social pact enshrined in the Constitution is based. This is a very interesting passage from the speech of the President of the Republic of Mattarella, which - as is well known - the Lega Nord and Autonomy Group did not vote, but which seems absolutely acceptable to me. I agree with these words, since I have never heard them spoken by the President-in-Office of the Council for a year now, that is, since he was President of the two chambers, one of which was 'advanced'. I would say that there is a problem related not only to ILVA, but also to all the induced. We have conducted a battle, on which we have reasoned, regarding the protests of the tarantino road haulage that threatens to continue, waiting for the Government to find a solution, and risks to break a chain already worn out for years from difficulties for the induced tied to the production of the ILVA. According to the companies for the processing and distribution of Italian steels, the situation of complete blocking of shipments of finished products from ILVA plants, which for weeks have lost several dollars and of which the end is not seen, is putting in great difficulty the entire sector, with paralysis of the entire sector. Once the transport issue has been completed - as you will understand - supplies or links to other activities in this sector will be extremely complicated. Taranto, then, is a complicated city of his. Everything there is more complicated and it is absolutely wrong to reply - we have already denounced it in the interventions related to other decrees-laws - the recipes that we hope belong to the past. As far as Ilva is concerned, in particular, I am referring to the times when, in the face of the industrial crisis, it has been decided to close down, to liquidate companies and to support the income of the territories by means of assistance measures. On the other hand, this is the time to take responsibility and responsibility goes hand in hand with power. One cannot think of power without responsibility, as it is written in this decree-law, with reference to the extraordinary commissioner and his officers for the implementation of the planned environmental plan. It is therefore necessary to have the responsibility to exit the emergency by focusing on the exploitation of the industrial resources of ILVA and of the enterprises that, in various ways, gravitate around this company, as well as the responsibility not to block the productive activity of a plant from which depends the future of thousands of enterprises and families, of an ILVA that - it seems - towards a nationalization. And the Commissioner will have more time to complete the 94 environmental requirements indicated in the AIA: by 31 July 2015 - a date that seems very stringent, as some previous colleagues have said - he will have, in fact, to achieve at least 80% of the 94 prescriptions. It is not clear whether the percentage should be compared to the number of prescriptions or whether the specific weight and importance of each of them should be taken into account. In particular, we wonder if it is counted as a simple prescription the cover of the mineral park, which is rightly considered the main responsible for the lifting of dust towards the Drums district, of which much has been discussed and I think it has the utmost attention on our part. We are concerned - we have been in the past and we are now - and very critical of the drafting of these decrees and the solutions that are then sought. I would also like to refer to a few small marks - let me say this, Mr President, since we are at the end of the sitting and we are in a certain sense in the desert of the Tatars - which has been skilfully done, and which has also been a little scented in the Committee on Budgets. The fact that there is a flood of recruitment in the ARPA and about €500,000 are allocated for 2015 and €4.5 million for 2016, with regard to the issue of childhood cancers, seems to be an absolutely normal thing to support. It is certain, however, that we cannot think of resolving this with a year of funding, and in any case - in my opinion and in the Group to which I belong - it will only be a way of filling up some holes in Puglia's health care. We are very critical: there was much more to be done and probably something better could have been done. Even in the Commission, we have not been able to change the measure, which was probably born badly and has seen its path bumped by a number of amendments and sub-amendments. We have exonerated - as is often the case - the Senate and Parliament and I believe that this cannot be a test of democracy, especially when it comes to extremely serious matters, such as the Ilva of Taranto. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Fucksia and Gambaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u82	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u83	Mr President, as many of my fellow senators have said in their speeches, we have reached the seventh Ilva Decree-Law. It is clear then that, if we have arrived at the seventh ILVA decree-law, the balance sheet of the previous work cannot certainly be considered positive, and this is also evidence of the fact that, on the ILVA issue, we have moved forward to approximation, with the idea, at least theoretical, of trying to put in place and reconcile two rights: the right to work and the right to health. These are two absolutely fundamental rights, but the result, at the end of the attempts - alas - is certainly not positive. I would add a reflection that I would like to make, and this is not the first time we have asked the question: I ask all of us, and also the Government and the majority, if the instrument of the urgent decree has been useful. Evidently you think this is useful, because this is the seventh time that you approach the issue of ILVA through the decree of urgency, through special and extraordinary regulations that - in my opinion - are absolutely not the most suitable instrument to intervene on such a complex problem that comes, however, first of all from the emergency - I would like to remind you here, because sometimes it can escape - environmental and health. From this was born and had to be born the possibility to put in place all the instruments in order to deal with exactly this priority. I would like to say very clearly that, in reviewing in more than two years the process of all the decrees issued, no progress has been made in the environmental and health field, except that - and I would like to remind you this - of awarding us a European infringement procedure: in the end, in the last two years, it has been the only appreciable result on the front. In fact, there has not been one that can be measured and with which to say here that we have started the reclamation; we have had a certain result on the one hand; we have begun to deal seriously with the issue of mineral parks, for example. No: in these two years the environmental and health budget is - in our view - bankrupt and has given us the European infringement procedure. Despite the appointment of two special commissioners, two sub-commissaries in charge of the environmental plan, three experts and three extraordinary supercommissaries, between continuous referrals and prescriptions of the AIA, in the end we had neither a hectare of sea nor of land reclaimed. Of course - I mentioned at the beginning - the industrial and environmental affair is complex and costly. However, I have to say quite frankly that although I appreciate some of the changes made in the Commission (some of them, and then I will intervene on others), I do not believe, in all honesty, that this seventh decree-law is able or has put in place the instruments to reverse the course neither the future industrial destiny of Ilva, nor the environmental and health aspects. And I come to the questions that - in my opinion - are certainly one of the absolutely negative parts of the decree-law, and on which in vain we have tabled amendments, which have received no kind of attention. The first concerns, once again, health and the environment and is, that is, the issue of the AIA prescriptions. The same amendment that was adopted in the Commission in the end, and in any case, confirms that the famous 80% is numerical: it is 80% of the requirements due to expire in 2015. The only thing that was at least approved in the Commission is the reconfirmation of the date of the deadline for the implementation of the AIA requirements - on 4 August 2016 - thus restoring the provisions of the previous decree-law. Even during the hearings it was found that the parameter, among other things only numerical, of 80% is absolutely negative from the point of view of the positive results in terms of environmental reclamation. By the way, we had asked that 80% should include at least the most essential interventions, which we all know very well, because several times attention has been paid to them. On the other hand, from this point of view, I must say that I consider the work of the Commissions and also of the rapporteurs, who have focused very much on the other side of the economic structure, which is absolutely disappointing. Moreover, as far as environmental and health aspects are concerned - and I have also mentioned this before, during my speech on the preliminary constitutionality - I quite frankly continue to remain absolutely grounded by the fact that the health impact assessment is considered to be merely an annoyance. In any case, it had to be specified in the decree-law that health impact assessment cannot be the element which, in itself, can call into question or reopen the AIA itself. This says a lot about the fact that obviously once again - I continue to consider this the really negative part of the decree-law - it is considered a secondary aspect the impact on environmental and health aspects, which instead had to be the real, continuous and constant initial emergency, on which to concentrate all the interventions. In all this, I would like to add another issue, which has affected us even in the last few minutes of the debate in the Commissions meeting. An amendment was approved concerning the strengthening of the oncology-pediatric ward of the hospital in Taranto. We are, however, talking about ridiculous resources. We voted in favour, because it is always better than nothing. However, the EUR 500 million allocated for the first year is perhaps not enough to buy the equipment to make a PET. I want to point this out, because in that reality we are faced with a real oncology emergency - as all the data have reported - about which there are very precise responsibilities on the part of the pollution of Ilva. But the answers are what they are. We then come to the question of ARPA. I am afraid of the maxi amendment. There has been a very serious request from several quarters - the rapporteurs are well aware of this - on the question of controls. I believe that this is a perfectly sensible rule to grant the ARPA Puglia the possibility of a derogation from the new recruitment bans, precisely in order to address what is the fundamental issue for a regional environmental agency, the question of controls, which also concerns the effectiveness of the investments made and the implementation of the AIA's requirements. On the other hand, I am afraid that even in the maxi amendment - so much you will put trust, as we all know - there will be no trace of this. Then we are faced with an incredible and paradoxical situation. The ARPA, which really has undersized staff and has the task of carrying out the checks, could be incriminated, in the person of its officials or its director, because it failed to carry out a series of checks. On the contrary, this decree-law guarantees the safe conduct of the special commissioner and all his delegates (sub and sub-sub): it guarantees, that is, the non-preventive punishableness for all administrative and criminal responsibilities. Therefore, those who should carry out environmental control and verify that the AIA's requirements go well could incur criminal proceedings, while those whose powers this decree-law extends enormously - that is, the Extraordinary Commissioner and his delegates, in the indeterminateness, moreover, of which his delegates are exactly - are instead covered by a real safe conduct. And I say that very frankly. It is a matter that should make everyone reflect. It remains and can only be so, even if the vote in this House has rejected the preliminary constitutionality. It is clear to everyone that paragraph 6 of Article 2 is a very strong wound to constitutional principles. On the other issues that have very much affected the Commission itself, some changes have been made, some of which we welcome. One of these concerns an issue that was strongly addressed to us during the hearings by the assistant prosecutor of Milan, Greece, regarding the fact that the decree-law, as it was born, threatened to prevent the return from Switzerland of 1.2 billion capital confiscated at Ilva. The amendment has been made and rules have been introduced which are hopefully going to be successful. It has also been approved the suspension for road haulage companies and for small enterprises of the payment of the erial taxes. Enforcement procedures are suspended. Some changes have certainly been improved in the text. For the umpteenth time, however, there is talk about Ilva, as has been done in the last two years with the decrees that we have criticized, and unfortunately what we have said has proved absolutely true, because they have been ineffective precisely on the environmental and health front. Again, however, we believe that, on the whole, this decree-law is not able not only to face the future destiny of the ILVA, the workers, the induced and the steel in our country, but above all to put in place a real environmental and health recovery that that area and those citizens deserve and wait for a long time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u84	Mr President, the Christmas festivities were taking place when we found Renzi on a television show with a warning: the European Union does not prevent the children of Taranto from being saved. Then from Apulian for two years in Parliament, to the fourth decree-law saves ILVA I thought that you could not reach such a level of marketing ruthlessness using the children of Taranto. In this warning, first of all, there is a question: there are children of Taranto who get sick and die because of a company. Also on television there is the same Renzi who, to advertise his Expo, says that there is no product, no production and no development if a child dies. In that case there is talk of hunger, while in this case of steel and the Riva family, that family that finances the electoral campaigns of Forza Italia and the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That baby in Taranto isn't worth the EXPO baby, probably. But I will use the five minutes at my disposal also for a specific, because the ruthless information of the Democratic Party does not stop. Senator Fabbri has to say that we contest 80 percent of the AIA that must be carried out by 2015 because it seems that it will then be completed in 2016. However, she fails to say that the funds that are to come from Switzerland are still subject to the issue of bonds and if they do not arrive, they will not arrive and therefore the AIA will not be concluded. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is also omitted to say that by 2016 you will not be able to cover the entire mining park, otherwise there will be no more production by ILVA because it will no longer be convenient to keep it alive. The other possibility is that he continues to kill himself. We are therefore keeping a murderer alive, always to get us financed and to do favors to the lords of the banks, the various Marcegaglia and other strong powers. After all, Renzi escaped from Taranto. When he came to Taranto he was verbally attacked by desperate poor people and he fled, promising that he would visit the children of Taranto, that he in a ruthless way - I repeat - exploited. But he didn't go there: he probably had too much to do on television to visit the hairless children hospitalized in the cancer ward of the hospital in Taranto (and there are not only children, unfortunately). Now from this House we receive various expressions of disappointment at our indignation which, for justice, has also been cleared by the President of the Republic. Well, we receive these expressions of disappointment and address them to the majority, who support the Government that continues to support a murderer. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u85	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u86	Mr President, Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law we are debating is a set of smokey provisions, indeterminate and not at all suitable to solve the deep crisis that is going through Ilva, a strategic company for our country in the steel sector. We are faced with yet another measure of necessity and urgency. After several interventions by the State, still today in Taranto there continues to be, around the ILVA, an environmental emergency, a disastrous productive performance, a serious employment crisis and a worrying insolvency towards the many creditors. History, apparently, is not a teacher of life. The Government has decided to replicate the method of the past by adopting this decree-law on December 24 as a Christmas solution. The aim is noble: to restore an important industry and we cannot let it die. But the problem of the ILVA was born in 2012, from the questionable judicial acts advanced by Taranto's attorney who have brought on their knees an entire production system. It is therefore an affair in which politics and state intervention attempt to resolve the effects, which have not yet been definitively generated, of judicial processes. In this way the government has chosen the way of extraordinary administration with the appointment of three commissioners, who are entrusted with full powers to get out of the impasse. A not insignificant detail, far from any principle of legality, is the fact that the Extraordinary Commissioner is granted criminal and administrative immunity in the performance of his duties. This forecast reflects the directist system of the measure under consideration and we are very concerned about the existence of this form of safe conduct, which would prohibit the judicial authority from exercising its power-duty to ascertain any criminal offences and to activate prosecution. On the one hand, immunity is attributed, on the other hand, it is decided to use resources that are not available. To finance the expenses deriving from the activities of the plan saves ILVA with the money seized by the Milan court to the Riva family is contra legem. This is about 1,200 million. Beyond the concrete or presumed responsibilities of the Riva family, it is a provision that subverts the principles of the rule of law. It is unacceptable for the executive authority to decide to have full possession of sums seized and not yet confiscated definitively, pending the judgment of the judicial authority. The ILVA crisis, productive and financial, is combined with that of the induced. The extraordinary administration procedure and the subsequent declaration of insolvency of the company have thrown into panic the 150 supplying companies, uncertain about the possibility of recovering the claims claimed towards the Ilva. About 150 million arrears and 3,000 jobs are at stake. Instead, the Decree-Law provides only 35 million euros of the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises to ensure access to credit for ILVA's supplying companies. Compared with the total credits, this figure appears to be small, ridiculous and will certainly not avert the catastrophic consequences of production and employment. In fact, we had proposed that the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti should take on the wholeness of the claims and the full payment to the creditors. In addition, we consider partial and limited, although a first step towards the vast audience of creditors, the prediction that they are prededuction, and therefore have a kind of guarantee, only the credits prior to the extraordinary administration referring to the companies that for Ilva have carried out works related to the prescriptions of the AIA, that is, protection of the environment and health. But ILVA is not only linked to environmental rehabilitation and health protection. In the steel industry there are also many common interventions, but not for this second floor: transport, maintenance, replacements, supply of spare parts, mechanical and electrical restorations, deliveries. Precisely with reference to the road haulage companies and to small and medium-sized enterprises that boast credits against the ILVA, they have been inserted in extremis, thanks also to our contribution, measures in their support, including the suspension of the terms of the payments of the erial taxes and the suspension of the payments deriving from the debitorial folders, absorbing in fact some of the proposals of our Group. Another solution to the payment of creditors Forza Italia had given it in its amendment in the Commission. My amendment proposed that, at the time of the sale of the company or a branch of it by the Extraordinary Commissioner, the debts currently incurred by the commissariat should be converted into a fraction of the capital of the successor company. In this way, it would have been possible to extend the scope of the instruments available to the Commissioner's management in order to ensure the total or partial satisfaction of outstanding debt exposures. We are pleased that some of our proposals have been accepted by the rapporteurs on health protection. This is the implementation by the Region of interventions for the enhancement of prevention and care in the field of paediatric onco-hematology in the Province of Taranto. We had actually planned the creation of a pediatric onco-hematology pole, but we hope that the reference to generic interventions can translate into the realization of a real hospital center. President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we could all together seek and find a definitive solution for a profound social, environmental and industrial crisis. It would have been enough to listen more to the oppositions and find reasonable mediations on some qualifying points that would have changed the face of this decree-law. One of them is the opportunity to entrust ILVA to a public-private mixed society. Once again you have missed the opportunity for a loyal confrontation with the opposition, you have lost the opportunity to do the good of the country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u87	She is registered to speak Senator Valdinosis. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the approval of a speech that I consider to be fundamental in order to allow not only Ilva and Taranto, but this country to leave and to do so in the best way possible. The decree-law of 5 January 2015 is in fact a crucial step, because it is able to combine the emergency of a situation no longer sustainable with the will not to stop today, but to start planning the future. To intervene in order to safeguard ILVA's plants and structures is absolutely necessary for a country that does not renounce one of the strengths of its steel industry. It is not by chance that Decree-Law No 207 of 2012 has qualified ILVA as a plant of strategic and national interest. This is the reality: giving up the rescue of the steel mills would have meant enormous damage to our economy, with serious consequences not only for the area of Taranto, but also for all an induced one whose numbers are very important not only to the South but in many Regions of the Centre-North. We are talking, it is worth remembering, about the only full-cycle production site in Italy, which is also the second pole in Europe with regard to production capacity. Then there are the figures, absolutely important, of the number of workers employed: more than 12,000 employed in the area of Taranto alone, to which must be added, as mentioned, all the employees related to the activities of the induced, for a total of almost 20,000 units. Losing the ILVA would be a very hard blow for our country, broken by years of economic and productive crisis, which only in recent months has shown a slight, but important and significant, reversal of trend. This reversal of the trend is part of a context of revival of the Italian industrial realities, which the Renzi Government has concretely put in place. The Government intervened and resolved some of the most difficult corporate crises: Terni, Piombino, Gela, Trieste, Reggio Calabria, Electrolux, Alitalia, Termini Imerese; in nine months there are over 40 tables resolved, which will allow more than 38,000 workers to maintain their jobs. Saving what is in difficulty is the first step towards the deployment of a renewed industrial policy, which has been lacking in this country for too long. That is why it was necessary and necessary to intervene in order to safeguard the ILVA plants. However, while we rejected the idea that the State could do nothing for steel mills, we rejected with equal force the idea that the Taranto area could continue along the path of recent years, that is, putting at serious risk both the ecosystem of the gulf and the health of the citizens. It is worth remembering what was the state of affairs just before 2013, when the police began: the ILVA was at risk of closure due to environmental incompatibility, with the entire hot area under seizure, and with an open infringement procedure for infringement of environmental standards. Much has been done from an environmental point of view since 2013. In fact, if at least 80% of the environmental plan's interventions were expected to be completed by 31 July 2015, it must be said that already today, in numerical terms, 75% of the interventions have been successfully carried out. It is no coincidence that air quality has improved considerably throughout the Taranto area, as the data from ARPA Puglia show: pollutants are constantly falling, and above all significantly less than the parameters set by the European Union. With this decree-law we tried, in a difficult and complex balance, to give guarantees of productive continuity and environmental recovery. In the work of the Commissions, our commitment, since the beginning of the examination of this measure, has gone in the direction of strengthening environmental and health protection. I therefore find it extremely positive that there is confirmation of some basic standards. For example, the Ministerial Decree of 24 April 2013 is confirmed as a reference point for health damage assessment reports. These rules lay down limits and criteria to prevent the same mistakes from being repeated in the future. It is in this sense that the commitment must be read to ensure, even if ILVA is sold or rented, the completion of the plan of measures of environmental and health protection activities by the parties concerned. Again with this in mind, I would like to draw the attention of this House to an amendment which is a clear signal of the concreteness of our action. These are the interventions for the enhancement of prevention and treatment in the field of pediatric onco-hematology in the Province of Taranto: a clear response to an urgent need on the part of the population, for a total cost of 5 million euros. We want those who have suffered damage to their health now to have the opportunity to receive treatment with the best tools available. Mr President, I still have other things to say, but I would ask for permission to hand over the rest of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u89	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u90	The general debate is closed. As the rapporteurs do not wish to speak in response, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u91	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the senators and the entire Senate Assembly, because this afternoon's debate has been very serious and very demanding on a key step for our country's industrial and environmental policy. Without having to retrace the key passages of the decree-law, which the rapporteurs Laniece and Tomaselli have already clarified, as well as of the amendments approved, I would like to emphasize that the measure under consideration constitutes for the Government a further step to secure the production and occupation of the ILVA plants, in Taranto but also in the rest of Italy, and to secure the productive activity and occupation of entire areas of the national territory. It is a further step to channel more resources into environmental recovery: a key objective. The decree-law combines environmental rehabilitation and steel recovery with the economic development and environmental protection of the entire area of Taranto, the city and the port. The Decree-Law, as it emerged from the work of the Commissions, is an enhanced measure in its instruments and its objectives with regard to the resources channelled on ILVA and on environmental rehabilitation. I am thinking in particular of the changes introduced by the work of the Commissions which have strengthened the rules on the use of the sums seized for the implementation of the environmental plan and which have introduced a State guarantee for a bridge loan that allows immediately to restart the activities of environmental rehabilitation of the plant. I am also thinking of the improvement of the rules introduced, for example, with regard to the transaction with Fintecna and then - this to the sides of the parliamentary work, but it is affected by the excellent work done by the parliamentary committees and the determination with which it has been carried out in the construction of this decree-law - to the unblocking of some very important credit lines for the activity of the ILVA already in these days. I would also like to point out that the amendments adopted in the Commission have enabled us to address and respond to some of the needs of the companies and workers in the industry. (at 19.55) (Following DE VINCENTI, Deputy Minister for Economic Development). I am thinking of the rules on the Central Guarantee Fund, the access for small and medium-sized enterprises to the same fund, the pre-deducibility of credits, the suspension of the payment of the state tax until 15 September. I will conclude by pointing out a very important point. Some senators have pointed out that the one on the agenda is the seventh ILVA decree-law and have expressed a criticism in this regard, but I would like to say that this further step is crucial because we are facing an unprecedented challenge: the largest steel plant in Europe, the most advanced environmental plan, the largest investment plan, environmental rehabilitation and productive revival. It is a new challenge that explains why it has been necessary to intervene several times, but with the same line of conduct, a fundamental coherence that is that of the productive revival and environmental improvement of the ILVA steel industry. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u92	He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u93	MARTELLI (M5S). If you don't look at us... [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption of amendment 1,700, which I am going to present to the Presidency, entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 1733, which incorporates the amendments proposed by the Commissions. [[Ironic applause from Senator Bottici. Senator Mussini shows a page in a newspaper. Reiterate protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u95	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government. In accordance with practice, I invite the Conference of Leaders and, given the time, I postpone the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting. SANTANGELO (M5S). Always these games, be ashamed, President. You're a slave to the majority! You are a slave and a servant of the majority! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u96	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-394.ana.u97	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 19 February, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.57 p.m.
