ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 5 March.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u4	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1552, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 572. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting on 5 March the rapporteurs held the oral report and the general debate took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u11	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I would like to raise a very sensitive issue. Mr President, on our examination - as you said - we have the Hague Convention, which provides for the introduction into the law of the countries which belong to it of kafala, an institute of Islamic rite. I am not going to talk about the fact that, during the hearings held in the Commission, all the auditors expressed great concern about this institution, but about the fact that I received today - so not in time to be able to use it during the general discussion that took place and closed last Thursday and much less in the Commission - an extract from the report approved by the Italian Islam Committee. It is a body of the Italian Government... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u12	Colleagues, it is unthinkable that even in the row side by side and in the one behind Senator Malan is disturbed in this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u13	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I referred to an extract, which I had only this morning, from the report approved in 2010 by the Italian Islam Committee. This Committee is not a private institution, but a body of the Ministry of the Interior, and therefore fully government, which operated from 2010 to 2011. Even today, there is a similar body, which is set up with slightly different principles. In this report - which, moreover, is largely critical, and I recall that representatives of various Italian Islamic organizations, as well as representatives of the Ministry of the Interior - are included a sentence - unfortunately I have only one extract, so I do not know if there are others - which says that the transposition into Italian law of the kafala, albeit judicial, in which a foreigner is entrusted, does not guarantee sufficient preventive control over the effective compliance of the custody to the interests of the minor, for example - and here the problem is considerable - to exclude that, through the kafala, they arrive in Italy brides girls or children destined to constitute an early labor force or in any case to living conditions that do not guarantee their proper development. It is also evident - the extract of the report continues - that even from the country of origin there may be serious difficulties in really understanding what the situation of the minor is. Driven by this I did a very simple research on kafala, but not in Italian but in English. Well, most of the time kafala is mentioned today is to point out that, in several Islamic countries, this institute is under discussion. Even in Bahrain it was abolished, because it led to situations similar to the slavery of the adopted persons or rather, being not an adoption, of the persons entrusted through this institute. Since this is an official document of the Italian Government, I think it would be useful to have the full report of the Committee on Islam in Italy, also because, if such bodies are not used in such cases, it is useless for them to exist, and only after further discussion. That would be a balanced solution. Among other things, the Senate should be in possession of this document, because the Committee - as all bodies of this kind should do, although generally they do not - also sent its reports to Parliament. In essence, we risk ratifying a rule that, according to a body of the Italian Government, composed to a large extent of representatives of Islamic communities in Italy, does not guarantee minors and therefore can cover, through this institute, the entry into Italy of brides girls and children destined for exploitation. I do not think we can go on without more explanations and news on this point. It is not merely a question of ratification of an international convention like so many, as if it were a bureaucratic fulfillment, but of the introduction of an extremely dangerous institution which - I repeat - has been abolished in Bahrain for the disastrous results produced. In Qatar it is believed that hundreds of workers are dead, brought there under almost slavery conditions because of this institution. I am talking about international news that is also being examined by the Governments of Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the Arab Emirates. We cannot be more Islamic than Saudi Arabia is. I believe that caution is extremely appropriate, because of the possible conditions of minors. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u14	I call the rapporteur, Senator Fattorini.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u15	Senator Malan's debate and last speech have rightly recalled in many passages doubts and objections about kafala. It is a complicated and difficult question to translate into Italian law. It is the reason - as I and Senator Filippin said last time - that we are now simply voting on the simple ratification of the Convention, taking more time for a proper translation into our system of this complicated issue. In the last speech, extremes were made which must not alarm us so much but lead to the proper verification. The underlying complexity, which we also found the other time and which led us to take more time to find the appropriate terms for our jurisdiction, stems from this basic root, that is, a sort of proprietary attitude that the Islamic world has on the level of custody of minors. In that culture and religion there is the impossibility of having a definitive adoption in all respects, as is foreseen in our order, which is of Western and Christian civilization and has, as a foundation, freedom of choice. In our culture one can choose to adopt a child freely, even in the absence of blood bonds. In the Islamic world it is different, because in fact at any time you can claim appropriation and therefore, in this sense, property. This confirms how complicated it is, but not impossible, because we have a series of jurisdiction counter-measures - which Mr Filippin will now talk to us in general on a strictly legal level - which allows us to avoid extreme forms such as forced conversion and the putting into servitude of the bride and groom girls. It is clear that we will have to find all the ways to avoid this. This serves to say how much we are aware of the situation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Rapporteurs, I have checked the scale of the extracts proposed by the Commission and the caution with which the subject has been dealt with. I call the rapporteur, Senator Filippin.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u16	We ask the House to decide whether or not to approve the rapporteur's proposal on the deletion of the articles. In other words, the House will have to decide whether the rapporteur's proposal to take further time to ratify the Convention or simply to study the proper incorporation of institutions under Islamic law within the framework of our rules is acceptable. However, with partial reassurance of what Mr Malan has just said, I would like to read Article 22 of the Convention: The law identified by the provisions of this Chapter may not be applied only if such application is manifestly contrary to public policy, taking into account the best interests of the child. What does that mean? It means that, since Italian law still applies in Italy, it is not possible to apply rules that are contrary to public order, even if we proceed with the dry ratification or simple ratification of the Convention. What is different is to establish with which Italian institute, if trusted or adopted, we define the situation of minors who are welcomed in our country with the institute of kafala. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It seems to me that there is also an agenda signed by Senator Giovanardi, which we will discuss later. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u17	Mr President, I should like to make a few points. Several speakers stressed the need to ratify this Convention, which is from 1996, and for this reason the Government also welcomed the decision made by the Commission to proceed with a dry ratification. However, I would like to point out that the Kafala Institute is already envisaged as a form of child protection in the 1989 New York Convention on the Rights of the Child, Article 20, Convention ratified in Italy by Law No 176 of 1991. When the Convention was ratified, this institution was mentioned, and so today we do not add anything to the provisions of Article 20. Moreover, it is important to stress that the Convention already provides that foreign authorities' measures are not recognized in Italy if they are contrary to public order and, among the reasons for opposition to public order, there is no doubt also religious co-artition. Moreover, under the Convention that we are going to ratify, the law of the place of residence of the child applies and, therefore, never might the Italian judge be called to apply the institute of kafala to a minor who is in Italy. The same united sections of the Cassation have repeatedly invited the legislator to proceed to this ratification, precisely because a regulatory vacuum has been created and to allow to intervene and distinguish between custody and adoption. It is clear that kafala is an institution not provided for in our law, which resembles the institution of custody. The Government is willing to take account of further improvements in the amendment and wishes to underline the need to reach, however, an approval of this Convention, because it is certainly a step forward, a necessary and improcrastinable act that leads Italy to adapt after several years.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u20	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I believe that this is an obligation for each of us, before we vote, to evaluate the report referred to by Senator Malan.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u21	I do not intend to have access to the proposal for suspensive measures, since both the reporters and the Government have expressed their opposition to it. There are other tools, if you think you have to use them, which are not those of suspensive.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u22	Mr President, I just wanted to say that it is not enough to say that there is the rule of public order. Mr Undersecretary and rapporteur, international public order leads me to say as a judge, examining a measure of kafala, that I must realize whether that measure, as it is written, is contrary to international public order or not. It is not, because formally - the Observatory of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers told you - it is a correct measure, from the point of view of the use, through kafala, of the exploitation of minors for the purposes of work. Mr. Undersecretary, I was one of those who voted in favour of the three-article reduction and the others. I think it is normal to go back to the Commission to carry out a serious assessment. All of us who have experience in courtrooms know the evaluation of what we would have as a document, which will allow us to say that that child had assistance, but then in fact, through that procedure, is exploited for use at work or is initiated into marriage as a child. I therefore wonder why you must oppose a correct assessment, which can be carried out in the Commission and not in this House, taking into account what the President has said. I wonder whether it is not appropriate to refer the measure back to the Commission for such an assessment, in order to express a vote that is conscious and consistent with the findings made, and why there is not that danger pointed out by the same body of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I therefore request that the measure be referred back to the Commission, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is This is not acceptable at this stage of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u25	Senator Sacconi, if this is an intervention on the order of business, I give you the floor. Otherwise, when we enter into the merits of the various passages, each one will express his own position. SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, my request is precisely in relation to the order of business, as Mr Caliendo has just done, and as Mr Malan did before him. I do not want to formalise a request for referral back to the Commission, but I want to join those who have made this proposal, so that the Government can reflect on it and hope that it will be accepted. It made me reflect on a consideration made earlier by Undersecretary Ferri, when he reminded us of the 1989 United Nations Convention. In 1989 there was another world; in 1989 we were very different, as we were in the 1990s, when most of the other European countries transposed this Convention. How can we not, then, have the problem of its entry into an extraordinarily changed time, in a context in which problems of the same public order arise, to which reference has been made before, very different, which can be interpreted and read so differently since then. This is the appeal I make to the government. I wonder whether it is not desirable to take a brief step in the Commission to reflect on the context and clarify certain ways of transposing it after the possible act that we are doing here, i.e. transposition by our administrations and the State in all its aspects. I wonder whether, looking at these possible transposition acts, there may be no need for further clarification and, why not, also the adoption of agendas which are a guideline towards the state administrations.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u26	Senator Sacconi, it seems to me that at the end of the amending process, what remains is a dry ratification, which requires a legislative initiative subsequent to the filling of this container. The debate, therefore, led precisely to the deletion of several articles and thus to the transformation of the measure into a technical ratification of the Treaty, without the technical implementation of anything. We shall now proceed to the examination of agenda G.100, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to make their views known. FILIPPIN, rapporteur. Mr President, I am against this. FERRI, State Secretary for Justice. I give my assent. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Stefani, do you insist on voting on the G100 agenda? STEFANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr President, and I would ask that the vote be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u29	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to urge my fellow Members to read the text, regardless of the views expressed by the rapporteurs and by the Government, on a subject that I believe can absolutely be shared. This is a problem that concerns the whole world of children, linked to migratory flows. There are children totally uprooted from their natural environment, who are in conditions of extreme poverty, thus becoming easily prey to situations where fundamental rights are violated, from exploitation of child labour to begging, from sexual exploitation to use for crime. Unfortunately, Italy, because of its geopolitical position, is continually exposed to this type of migration phenomenon. We are now faced with a reality that concerns all unaccompanied minors who, in our country, are numerous. We must try to avoid a good-natured approach and instead be able to take responsibility for the fundamental principle of child protection. According to data provided by the Ministry of the Interior, since January 2014 minors entered Italy were 6,722, of which 4,598 were unaccompanied. The fifth ANCI report 2011-2012 on unaccompanied foreign minors notes that the problem is taking on emerging dimensions. Therefore, the Group of the North Legacy will of course vote in favour of the G100 agenda, urging colleagues to read its content correctly. What we are asking for is extremely simple, in some ways, and it is precisely because of this simplicity that we are surprised that it has not been adopted by the Government. We want the Government to promote projects of effective help for the people of the South of the world, aimed primarily at taking charge of minors and, secondly, at adopting a common policy of intervention, to counter migratory flows to our country, with particular regard to the position of unaccompanied foreign minors. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u30	We greet the students and teachers of the Liceo Scientifico "Giulietta Banzi Bazoli" in Lecce, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u33	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of the G100 agenda, on which I did not understand - perhaps I missed it - why an opinion was given against it. In fact, I find it difficult to find something on this agenda that should not be shared by everyone. The fact that we are dealing with the establishment of a fund for the reception of unaccompanied foreign minors should be in agreement with the good intentions underlying the idea of approving this Convention. The fact that this fund does not have to burden the municipalities seems to me to be of interest to everyone. The municipalities are victims of decisions of which they have no say (nor the administration of the municipality, nor the population of that municipality). In fact, it can happen that, from one day to the next, the prefect calls them to tell them that they must take charge of one, ten, fifty people and, in this case, we are talking about minors (the agenda is limited to talking about minors). But this is a further difficulty faced by the municipalities, with respect to situations in which they have no say and no responsibility, not even indirect. It is not, in fact, a matter of taking care of minors in the state of abandonment of that municipality, but of minors who come from who knows where and that someone, at governmental level, decides that they must go to that reality. So, I can't frankly understand the reason why I should say no to this. Perhaps it is because we are asking for the contrast to the migratory flows towards our country, evidently meaning the illegal migratory flows. Some escape that more and more testimonies tell us that people who arrive directly on our coasts (in increasingly rare cases) or are picked up in some way by ships, that we now know to be military, at the time with Operation Mare nostrum and now with Operation Triton, are not they to want this. We have news of people who are forced to board, under the threat of arms, and this is an instrument both of aggression to our country, and of enrichment by the criminals who manage this horrendous traffic, which is safely comparable to the slave trade that crossed the Atlantic until 1800. I sincerely hope that there will be a rethink on this agenda and also on the measure in general, because it is true that there are no rules for adapting to national law, but we are ratifying it in the meantime. We take this step and, once ratified, we will have to say that we cannot fail to adapt the rules of national law to an institution which - I repeat - has been abolished in some Islamic countries, while in others we are studying its abolition. I believe that this kind of lightness is unjustifiable and I do not even understand why we have to go on today, like a compressor roller: it does not matter to evaluate the reasons, it does not count to prevent the horrible consequences of which a member of the Government has also spoken, because the important thing is to approve the measure, even if we do not know what it contains. I hope that at least this agenda will be adopted in the meantime.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u36	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, there are very simply agendas which are clearly presented to obtain the maximum consensus of this House and to make a positive contribution. On the other hand, there are agendas - such as the one we are about to vote on - which obviously use very strong criticism of the government and government policy regarding immigration, so they cannot, for obvious reasons, have the support of the majority groups. [[Applause from the rapporteurs, Mr Fattorini and Mr Filippin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u37	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G100 agenda, presented by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u40	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to vote against this article, which authorizes the President of the Republic to ratify this Convention. This Convention - I repeat - accepts the introduction of the Islamic Kafala Institute into the law of the states ratifying it. It is true that today we are not introducing rules that modify our order in order to transpose it, but we are now ratifying the Convention. Therefore, if we do not want to do something very unserious, namely ratifying the Convention with the intention, then, not to apply it, I think we should think a little more deeply. In the meantime, we are taking a step towards this institution. I try to say something more about this institute, which starts from the Koranic assumption that a child cannot be adopted. The children are only and exclusively those who are generated by a lawful sexual relationship (I wonder if you mean, then, also to accept this aspect of this conception, which could also represent a first step, even if I realize that this does not happen, because on the other side you go in extremely opposite directions). As a result, there can be no real adoption: the child of which a family, made up of one or two parents, takes care is not adopted, does not become part of the family, with a number of consequences. Children who were to come to Italy following this institute would not be members of the family that takes care of it, so they would not have any title, then, to have Italian citizenship, because it would essentially be a procedure similar to custody. These children, therefore, would be found in an extremely anomalous and extremely weak situation. We remember or do not remember the fact that much exploitation of prostitution in our country takes place by exploiting the situation of social and legal weakness of people, generally women, who are brought to Italy where, then, someone - but violating the law - takes possession of their passport and exploits them? In this case, even, a situation is determined for which we give in the hands of others the passport of these minors: there will be minors who will come to our country, subject to the authority of their family (which will often have an interpretation of the family discipline rather rigid or a little different from what we generally have), whose fate will be in the hands, to all intents and legally, of people who are not parents. Let me add a detail: since these children are not members of the family who take care of them, there is no prohibition on having sexual relations with these people: not being members of the family, in fact, it is not incest. Therefore, we believe that this is an adoption, when it is a kind of trust with the possibility of doing anything. If the Committee on Italian Islam has spoken of the danger of brides girls - and I repeat, it is not a committee made up of who knows what anti-Islamic extremists, but representatives of the Islamic communities - there will be a reason. There are continuous and numerous testimonies about what is happening in some countries, especially in Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. There is a document, which is easily found on the Internet, which talks about the abuse that domestics brought to that country through this institution are subjected to. The only care that the introduction, through this Convention of this institute in Italy compared to what happens in those countries is that there you can do this that is in fact a contract even with adults, while here you could do only with minors (and I would say that this disturbs us a lot). There are many people completely well-intentioned who want to introduce this system in Italy, and there are already questions of many people living in Italy (some are citizens and others are not), who have asked to be able to bring children to Italy, in the name of this institute. These people will immediately appeal to the fact that we ratify this Convention today and there will probably be some judge who will agree with them. Too bad neither we nor the judge who will end up giving their reason can know what the real intentions are. I invite you to read the chilling testimonies we have: one for all, which concerns the United Arab Emirates, is titled "I have bought you," which is the phrase that is repeated against the girls who rebel against the many abuses and abuses to which they are subjected. Precisely because there are well-intentioned people, these will be carried forward, and alongside, or perhaps even one step ahead of the well-intentioned, there will be those who have a lot of other intentions. Frankly, I do not see the rush to proceed with the adoption of this measure today. However, there is no shortage of measures to our attention: there are so many of them and although my opinion on the whole of these measures is far from positive, however, there are. Instead you want to move on with this. Frankly, I believe that we should think about it and ask each of us to do so, because importing child labour into Italy with a ledger contract and running the risk of brides girls would say that it does not correspond to our duty as parliamentarians. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u43	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the Lega Nord Group has very clear ideas about this article and the measure. But perhaps some have not noticed that this ratification is "hanging," closed in the drawers of the Senate since 1996, and we are at first reading. The question then arises: why have all the governments which have followed each other in time never considered this ratification? Why do we arrive so quickly, in a lightning manner, during this parliamentary term and with this Government, at ratification? We believe, Mr President, that an infection begins from a small point and then spreads throughout the body. What we are witnessing is nothing more than a mechanism to incorporate into our legal system elements which culturally do not belong to us, but which can gradually change the same nature, I'm gonna disintegrate him. I better specify the point by trying to be clearer. When reference is made to an institution of Islamic law such as kafala, which is explicitly mentioned in this provision and whose references will be inserted, if approved, in our legal order, it abjures itself not to a decade, not to a century, but to centuries of legal culture and, even more, to centuries of culture that have made us today a free, democratic civilization, respectful of the rights of others, of which we are no longer aware. On the contrary, we are aware that today we must say no to this ratification, because in showing ourselves willing to change our rules to the advantage - let us say so - of systems that have nothing to do with ours and that, indeed, when they express themselves, are contrary to our laws and our rules of cohabitation (I am thinking of the women's world or the one linked as in this case to minors), if this were to be followed up, in the future as far as we could go, Mr Undersecretary? From us, the institution of adoption has deep roots and adheres to the same Constitution and to the same formula of the family; if we were to adopt this provision, elements that have nothing to do with a thousand-year-old history, but that could even put in awe or even discriminate against children in their rights, would be included in our system. Mr President, we are against this, we are not at all in agreement and we say to the rest of the Senate to meditate, because even if the governments that preceded this Commission have not ratified it and, instead, today, simply because we have to put something on the agenda of the Senate to fill the void of the House, we will arrive at this approval, the Government will have a very strong responsibility and you with your vote even more: to have distorted the same principles that are the basis of adoptions, which for us are an added value within a family and instead risk becoming a threat within the legal system that implants our culture. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u46	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the parliamentary moment we are experiencing is not easy, because objections are being raised, such as that of Mr Malan, coming directly from bodies that have a contact with the Government and that have highlighted in official documents a series of critical issues which, in fact, I did not have in the general debate. However, it seems to me that in some way they are underlying other aspects of the introduction of kafala into our system as regards the relationships that could be established between the foster families and those entrusted to them at the time of adoption; the phenomenon of the bride and groom girls who, not having any relationship with the foster families, could be the product of an infernal mechanism that plays against them. The objections that have been raised are very serious. I also draw the attention of the Government to the alarm contained in a document quoted by Senator Malan and coming from a governmental body, or in any case that plays a consultative role with the Muslim communities in Palazzo Chigi, from which there are reports of the risks that we run in introducing this institute into our system. Therefore, or what Mr Malan said does not correspond to truth or, if it is, of course, opens up a series of problems, such as those we had introduced in the general discussion on other aspects; I am referring to the problem of religious freedom, and to the obligation of conversion to Islam for foster couples, or to failure to deliver the child, with all that follows. In this regard, again because of the dialectic and the right evolution that must be in Parliament, we had transformed amendment 3,103 on the agenda of the G3,103 to guarantee essentially a commitment of the Government to consider, when it comes (and I will return in a moment on this absolutely important point in this context) to introduce and make operational the kafala in our legal system in any case contrary to public order the measures of legal assistance through kafala or similar institution that are contrary to the principles of Article 19 of our Constitution. There is not only a problem of public order, but there is also a specific problem of religious freedom that kafala, from the perspective of the countries that practice it, disclaims, rather obliging a forced conversion if one wants the custody of a child. I therefore call on the rapporteurs, and I would like to hear a reply from the Government on this agenda now. We are about to vote on Article 1, which is the fundamental one, but I would also like an explanation of another issue concerning Article 2, and I would like to ask it in the explanation of vote. The principle is that we have "dryed" everything and we are going to vote on three articles that simply introduce kafala into our order. But the ways in which the kafala will then be managed will be entrusted to a further and subsequent bill, which will determine how, where, when and whether or not to conform to our order. However, Article 2 of this bill of ratification states: "Full and full implementation shall be given to the Convention, as from the date of its entry into force, in accordance with Article 61 (2) (a) thereof. So that future bill will come when the Head of State signs the ratification of the Convention and it will be enforceable in our country. So what Mr Malan was talking about will become an individual right, for those who want to have a child in order to obtain it, since the Convention already becomes operational in our territory. The cautions of the bill, in fact, that should have reassured us (but we made an excerpt for the complications that resulted), vice versa, reassure me little. In fact, I read that the Convention comes into force, that kafala becomes part of our system, despite all the perplexities we have expressed, and that only later, with a draft law, we could shelter or set limits in accordance with our Constitution. First of all, I would ask the Government to speak on my agenda for the protection of religious freedom. And before voting on Article 1, since a Group assumes responsibilities when it has to vote on transposition, I ask how Article 2 (i.e. the full and full execution given to the Convention) is reconciled with the fact that we will approve a law that regulates it only later, when it is already fully in force in our country. So, before we vote on Article 1, since we are in Parliament for this reason, we would like clarification on issues which have only emerged in the debate today, but which seem to me to be very important in relation to the step that Parliament is going to take. I would also remind you that there is also the Chamber of Deputies and, therefore, there is a further parliamentary passage in which these issues can be further examined in relation to the aspects that will remain open. The impression, however, at this time, is that there are too many open issues left and that they are excessive in relation to the responsibilities that we should assume.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u49	FILIPPIN, rapporteur. Mr President, I must confess that I am witnessing this afternoon's debate with some confusion. It is as if the debate at last Thursday's afternoon's sitting had not been held. Paradoxically, I hear the same arguments with which the rapporteurs have proposed the deletion being used now against simple ratification. Of the two at one, then: either we were wrong in proposing the deletion, or, of course, if we proposed the deletion, there was a reason. The reason was the difficulty of adapting the institution of kafala to our system and our order. But what does it suggest, what does the Convention we are talking about contain? I apologise to the House, but I will read the text of Article 1 of the Convention itself. The purpose of this Convention is to determine the State whose authorities are competent to take measures to protect the child or the property of the child; to determine the law applicable by those authorities in the exercise of their competence; to determine the law applicable to parental responsibility; to ensure the recognition and enforcement of protective measures in all Contracting States; to establish between the authorities of the Contracting States the cooperation necessary for the achievement of the objectives of the Convention; or to determine which authority and law apply to a child who is no longer in the State of habitual residence. That's all. The problem of kafala, that is to say the legal institution that must be applied to the child who should enter the Italian territory, is so full of problems, but that is why we have proposed to the House the deletion precisely in order to assess which institutions of Italian law it is best to apply in order to ensure full respect of all the constitutional principles that here, in Italy, do not touch for anyone, man, woman or child. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u52	MATTESINI (PD). Mr President, I would just like to say that on 20 November this is the international day of children's rights. It seems that today we discover the kafala, when in reality this theme is already included in our order because the date of 20 November corresponds to the approval of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, signed in New York on 20 November 1989, which reads in Article 20: Any child who is temporarily or permanently deprived of his or her family environment or who cannot be left in that environment in his or her interests shall be entitled to protection and special State aid. This replacement protection can in particular be realized by means of family custody, kafala under Islamic law, adoption or, if necessary, placement in appropriate children's institutions. What are we talking about? We have been talking about this for years, not least the Court of Cassation. Let's not pretend that time hasn't passed, because we're already dealing with each other. The rapporteur is right when she says that precisely because of seriousness, rigour, to make this institution adaptable and in conformity with Italian standards, we have taken a time of seriousness in this Parliament, especially with regard to children. [[Applause from Senators De Biasi and Granaiola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u53	He asked the government representative to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u54	Mr President, I would like to add a few things to what Mrs Filippin said better than I did, also to reassure Senator Giovanardi on one issue. The Convention introduces, as a general principle, that of automatic recognition of protection measures taken by the authority of a Contracting State, but the principle of immediate recognition of decisions issued by another Contracting State provides for certain exceptions. It is precisely Article 33 of the Convention that in cases of custody or legal assistance through kafala, the principle of automatic recognition of the protection measure cannot operate because a preliminary examination by the central authority or another competent authority of the State in which the child is to be placed is necessary. In this case, the competent authority to take the measure, which in most cases will be that of the place of residence of the child, when the child is to be placed through the institution of the family custody of the kafala in a Contracting State other than that which adopted the measure, must consult in advance the central authority of the receiving State the child, communicating a report on the child or the reasons for the placement. The receiving central authority will have to approve the placement to the assistance taking into account the best interest of the child and, only after the approval of the custody of kafala issued by the competent State, can it be recognized and executed in the receiving State. These were the reasons for the House's inclusion in the text of the adaptation rules. As Senator Filippin said, we have given priority to "dry" ratification, precisely in order to avoid discussions on institutions that cannot automatically be recognized in our internal system and that, therefore, required greater legal deepening. In our order, for example, there is no automaticity on the institute of kafala. The same United Chambers of the Court of Cassation have defined it as a kind of custody, but it cannot be a custody tout court. It follows that the recognition of the institution cannot result in in our system effects identical or similar to those of the adoption, but rather performs the function of legalizing the activity of material and affective care of the child, with the exclusion of any bond of a parental nature or even of legal representation alone. These are not my words, but of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation, which commented on the paragraph in Judgment No 21108 of 16 September 2013. That's the spirit. And we, taking into account the legal difficulties of adaptation in our legal system and a subject that could create a debate and opposing views not only from the legal point of view, but also of political approach and sensitivity, have taken the decision - the Government has supported that of the rapporteurs - to reduce everything to a minimum and to proceed to a "dry" ratification, just so that we do not fail to comply with the Hague Convention. I mentioned the New York Convention on the Rights of the Child to make it clear that there had already been ratification, that these problems had already arisen. It is true that it was dated - I agree with President Sacconi when he says that the situation has changed and that it has been so many years - but there have been no legal problems that could arise even if there had been an adaptation regulation then. In respect of everyone and the various political sensitivities, the Government has adopted and followed this choice of reporters. I sincerely do not see these concerns. As far as the agenda is concerned - in advance - there is maximum willingness on the part of the Government, although I feel that I have already specified that no one will ever make decisions contrary to public order and in public order, in my opinion, the religious co-artition must also be included, as I pointed out before.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u57	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr. Representative of the Government, although I have helped to write this article, I would ask you to give some thought. The Italian Islam Committee of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers (and not the opposition or Forza Italia) has recognized the opportunity that - in the law transposing the Hague Convention of 19 October 1996... - a regulation on the effects of kafala under Italian law is enacted. Such discipline, in compliance with the peculiarity of the institute, must ensure the maximum protection of the minor, especially when he is in a state of abandonment and will guarantee his permanence in Italy for the duration of the custody, according to the same rules that govern the right of permanence of the affidator, possibly after a period of permission. For this reason, although I have written together with the rapporteurs and the Undersecretary the text of the article, I say once again to the Undersecretary that I will vote against this article, not because I am against it, but because we should reflect on what has been written by the Committee, which we all ignored. I think it is a duty, especially since it is a Committee of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers that the Undersecretary can very well question and assess the possible corrections.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u58	Colleagues, I greet the students of the Institute of State Higher Education "Carlo Emilio Gadda" in Langhirano, in the province of Parma, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u59	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u62	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Article 2 clarifies a lot about what we are about to approve, as it states: The Convention shall be implemented as from the date of its entry into force in accordance with Article 61 (2) (a) of that Convention. Point (a) of Article 61 (2) states that the entry into force of the Convention, for countries which have not signed it initially, is the first day of the month following a period of three months which has taken time since it was ratified. That is to say that today we are voting on the authorisation, which is in practice a request to the President of the Republic to ratify this Convention. Since we have made some changes, it will take a few weeks for the House to approve it, probably, in a text that is in conformity; let us assume that this will happen in April. This means that it will come into force from 1 August of this year; I am going to read the article that we are going to vote on, I hope, to reject it: "Full and full execution" is given to the Convention. A person who, from 1 August onwards, will request recognition of the Kafala Institute - of which he has already asked to make use (and I believe that this is also what led to the approval of the measure under consideration, and we have testimonies in this regard) - will be able to show the law that you are about to vote on today. Do you think that he will not find a judge of some sort, perhaps administrative, who will agree with him when the competent authorities refuse to recognize this child? I remember that the Italian Committee for Islam, made up of representatives of the Islamic communities, and not of who knows as an anti-Islamic extremist, warned us about the danger of abuse. But let's forget about the abuse. Outside of them, with this Convention we give life to a new legal figure: in Italy there are custody and adoption. The good thing is that we will deal with this when we examine the measure that will follow immediately, on which discussions will take place, because there will be those who believe that the two plans should not be further confused and those who consider it positive to have a kind of trust that in many cases leads to adoption. Whatever the outcome of that discussion, whatever the opinion we have on that debate, we are introducing a new thing here, which has the characteristics of adoption with regard to its stability (since it is permanent) and has the characteristics of custody because it does not involve the entry of the entrusted into the family to which it is entrusted; and all this is granted only to Islamic families (it says the word itself "kafala "). Therefore, there may be a child of some Muslim-majority country (or even not Muslim-majority), for whom a family, which must necessarily be of Islamic religion, has asked to avail itself of this institution. But, if this same child is the subject of a request from a family that is not Muslim, it is not possible to use this institute, but it is mandatory to make use of the institutions provided for by Italian law. So is there not a slight suspicion that we have here a violation of Article 3 of the Constitution, which provides that all citizens are equal? Isn't that the slightest suspicion? Is there not a slight suspicion that there is also a co-artition of religious freedom? Is there not a slight suspicion that we should wait before we vote on something on which danger we have been warned by a government body, which has never been denied? That's the beauty: no document came out of any comparable body that said that those of the Italian Islam Committee of 2010 were dreaming and that these dangers are not there. These dangers, however, not only exist, but are recognized in countries with an overwhelming Islamic majority, which apply much of Islamic law. Bahrain - I have already said this, but I repeat, perhaps someone might think that we should not be more accommodating than Bahrain in relation to the introduction of these institutions - has abolished this institution. In Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates there are great discussions, including at the level of the authorities, which are not precisely a model of libertarianism, of guaranteeing individuals, of equality of the rights of men and women or of protecting minors compared to marriages at an indecent age. Well, in these countries there are great discussions because the authorities themselves (we speak of the ministries of these countries) have observed phenomena in which this institute is used for the (also sexual) exploitation of minors, as well as of the adult, since in those countries it is possible to use the institute of kafala also for the adult. Here it would only be for minors; it doesn't seem to me that the thing gets much better and I don't understand this stubbornness in wanting to move on. I very much appreciate what the rapporteurs have done: they said earlier that they were wrong when they asked for the deletion; they were not wrong, they did very well to ask for the deletion. The removal reduces the damage and - they say - should give us more time to think. But - I repeat - since August 1, someone, who has perhaps already asked for years to be able to bring (with the best intentions) a child or a child to Italy with the kafala instrument, will go to someone else to claim his right on the basis of this article 2, saying that here it is written that the Convention has full and entire execution. It does not say that we will then see what is to be done, or that we will refer everything to transposition into national law. As for the fact that it is expected that the application of this rule will not pose any danger to public order, I wonder whether the exploitation of a child is perhaps a matter of public order: unfortunately it is all too private. It will come at home and it will happen indoors, within a culture that often - as it were - protects privacy a lot. It often does so: there are of course various gradations here too. So there will be no public order problem and no one will know about it, except for the victims there may be. I repeat, there will be many families who will want to do it with the best intentions, but they will do it through an institution that we do not currently grant to anyone. No Italian family today and no non-Islamic Italian family will be able to use this institute tomorrow, which allows to take a child permanently with them, without letting him enter the family, without letting him enter the hereditary axis, without having the prohibition of having sexual relations with this person and without having any other effect, except that of having a permanent trust. However, this will be made possible, contrary to any principle that applies to all other Italian citizens. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u63	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u64	Mr President, for the reasons I have just mentioned, we consider the G3 103 agenda to be of extraordinary importance, because - in this way I respond to Mr Malan, sharing his concerns - I understand that from a technical point of view, Article 2 of the draft law of ratification, with which the Convention is fully implemented, is opposed to the very content of the Convention, which provides instead that, for its applicability, the internal system should be adapted by means of a whole series of precautions. This is exactly what we are asking for, namely that the Convention can only begin to produce its effects in Italy when a law passed by Parliament has clarified the aspects highlighted by Senator Malan. Highlighting these aspects is absolutely right, because this requirement comes from the Islamic community, which warns against the dangers underlying a distorted and evil interpretation of this instrument. For us, it is fundamental, because it concerns Articles 3 and 19 of the Constitution, to stress the need to ensure that the principle is exceeded that an Italian couple, whether of Jewish or Catholic religion or without any religion, cannot have a minor in foster care through kafala when perhaps our bodies go to Islamic countries to obtain a child in foster care. This can only be done by a Muslim couple or, if an Italian non-religious couple, or of Catholic or Jewish faith will want to do so, they will have to change religion and convert to Islam: this is what kafala provides. So this agenda is discriminatory for us, because it ensures that Parliament and the Government are aware of this constitutionally important issue and are committed to giving it a positive response from now on.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u65	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u66	On Amendment 3,100 call for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against. With regard to Amendment 3.101, the opinion is in favour, provided that the text is reworded as follows: Article 3 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) (vi) - One. For the purposes of this law, the Italian Central Authority shall mean the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. In this way, as rapporteurs, we consider to change the identification of the Central Authority of which the Convention is currently ratified, giving it to the most representative institution in Italy and therefore also the most appropriate one to regulate relations with foreign States for the purposes of the application of the Convention. As a result, I naturally ask Senator Micheloni if he accepts our proposal for reformulation. I therefore object to Amendment 3,102. On Amendment 3,103, tabled by Senator Giovanardi and transformed into agenda G3,103, the rapporteur, Mrs Fattorini, will speak. Finally, I am against Amendments Nos 3,104 and 3,105. The agenda G3.100, presented by Senator Di Biagio, basically recalls the need to arrive quickly at the internal adjustment rules and is acceptable; however, we ask Senator Di Biagio to accept the following rewording of the device: "It commits the Government to assess the opportunity to support the deepening and the treatment of the points "strange" in the referent from the provision in title, with particular reference to the discipline connected to the institute of kafala, in order to give full and consistent implementation to the Convention".
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u67	Mr President, I propose the following rewording of the agenda, Mr G3.103, tabled by Senator Giovanardi: The Senate commits the Government to assess the compatibility of legal assistance measures through kafala or similar institution with the principles of our legal system and with our constitutional principles. In this way we understand the religious freedom to which the previous formulation referred, the defence of child exploitation at work, sexual exploitation and all the arguments that we believe are already very protected in the reasoning that we have done so far, but that with this agenda could be further guaranteed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u68	I am in agreement with those of the rapporteurs. The proposed reformulations are also correct for the Government and therefore the opinion is also in favour of them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u69	Senator Mattesini, do you accept the invitation to withdraw Amendment 3,100? MATTESINI (PD). I'll withdraw it, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Micheloni, do you accept the proposed reformulation of Amendment 3.101? MICHELONI (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,101 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u72	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, since we have not quite understood the proposed reformulation, we call for it to be repeated. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur to read the rewording again.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u73	I re-read the rewording: " (...) ") means the Italian Central Authority the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The Commission had identified the Ministry of Justice, but it is considered more appropriate for the Presidency of the Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u76	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u77	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.101 (text 2), tabled by Senators Micheloni and Mattesini, entirely replacing the article. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The remaining amendments are therefore not included. Senator Di Biagio, does he accept the rewording of the agenda G3.100? DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G3.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Giovanardi, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G3.103?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u78	Mr President, I am speaking on my own behalf, because I was the original amendment. I believe that we have made - and I personally too - a great effort to point out the critical issues which the reporters themselves have admitted, present in the process of conversion in our order of this instrumentalization, typical of Muslim law. The Presidency of the Council - I have produced the documents - for twenty years has indicated, in official documents, that kafala is in direct conflict with our constitutional principles, especially with religious freedom. In fact, it is unacceptable for an Italian couple to be forced into religious conversion in order to have a child in foster care. Nevertheless, we have simply tabled an agenda which invites the Government, at the time when this blessed law will be made, which will have to set the limits of adaptation of our order to kafala, to keep in mind the respect of Article 19 of the Constitution. In fact, that's what we're talking about. The rapporteurs deleted the reference to Article 19. I repeat: they removed it and, therefore, I cannot vote for it. Personally, I will also vote against the bill because neither is a position accepted that cost nothing, but that was only a defence of a constitutional principle and freedom of religion in our country. It was not an act of weakness and submission to a right which is alien to our order and which undermines fundamental principles. Since the discussion on Article 1, I have asked the representative of the Government how the Executive would behave and I felt that he was in favour of the agenda that we had presented (I refer to that signed by myself and Senators D'Ascola, Albertini and Gasparri). On the other hand, the rapporteurs have changed it in an unacceptable way for me and, therefore, while I am sorry, I obviously cannot support this change on the agenda, which I consider to be reductive. As far as I am concerned, even in the explanation of vote, I will make my own assessments. [[Applause from Senator Carraro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u79	Senator Giovanardi, do you keep your agenda in the original text? GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on the rapporteurs to express their views on the G3.103 agenda. FATTORINI, rapporteur. The opinion was opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u82	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I have not found the text resulting from the rewording, so my speech will not be about this, but about the agenda as presented by Mr Giovanardi, whom we shall be voting on. [[Brusio]] If the government representative listened every now and then, it wouldn't be a bad thing. It always happens with me, Undersecretary. If there were also a reference to the Constitution in the reformulation - which I do not see and therefore I ask the rapporteurs - there was also a reference to the Constitution... FILIPPIN, rapporteur. There is! VOLPI (LN-Aut). Don't worry, allow me to make a very brief argument. I wonder: if we present an agenda, although reworded with a reference to the Constitution, it is clear that those who have doubts about the application of this measure on kafala are right. Otherwise, in fact, even the rapporteurs would not feel obliged to use, albeit reworded, the inspiration of my colleague Giovanardi and recall the Constitution. Am I wrong, Undersecretary, or not? In fact, it would be natural not to recall the Constitution, or it would be natural to imagine that the right, however in all its articulations, is based on the main source, which is the Constitution. The hypotheses are then two. As for the first, there are doubts about this measure - let us say this - I do not want to inflame - about the possible surreptitious application of the kafala that we have said is not there, but - perhaps - there will be. In this case, then, we would need clarification, which is that of the constitutional appeal. The other possibility is that there is no danger, so there is no need to recall the Constitution. But I'm gonna ask you a question... [[Brusio]] Mr President, I would also like to speak without disorder: I am making a reasoning that I believe applies to everyone, not just to me. As I said, when we had to recall the Constitution in some way, we would find ourselves in this particular case... [[Brusio.]] D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). President, you can't hear me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, who should keep the order please help me to enforce it and not vice versa. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Excuse me, Mr. Undersecretary, I'm trying to continue, but I think I've made myself quite clear. At this point, or there is this problem - and it is recognized, if not as an immediate problem, perhaps in the further interpretation of what we are voting on - or there is no, and then there is no need - as it were - for guarantee. In any case, we must keep the Constitution in mind, because I do not think anyone wants to violate it. The point of my question is: how do the rapporteurs, who are so sure that there is no such danger, submit to the Assembly a rewording of Senator Giovanardi's agenda with a reference to the Constitution? In other words, I wonder if colleagues themselves have any doubts as to whether, without a specific reference to the Constitution, there is a danger of an uncertain inclusion. I think I've made myself clear and that mine is not such a peregrine question. If that were the case, it would mean that we are trying to give a little contentment and not really tackle the problem. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u83	I ask the reporters to confirm whether the reformulated text is as follows: It commits the Government to assess the compatibility of legal assistance measures through kafala or similar institution with the principles of our Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u84	No: With the principles of our order and with our constitutional principles. You have to listen, otherwise you don't understand.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u85	The reference, therefore, is to our legal system and to our constitutional principles in their entirety and not only to those referred to in Article 19 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u86	FATTORINI, rapporteur. That's right: it's an enlargement of the field and not a decline; it's the precise one with respect to Senator Giovanardi's concerns. It means taking them very seriously, but clearly useless, because here you either don't listen or you don't want to understand. In the reformulated text, there is, for example, an extension to sexual protection and against abuse at work. The protection of the child, therefore, is on all fronts. You have to listen to yourself.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u89	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am a co-signator of the agenda G3.103 and, although I am very fond of the lexical formulation "freedom" and "religious freedom" preferred by my colleague Giovanardi, I must point out that, already last week, in the general debate, while sharing the spirit and much of the letter of Senator Giovanardi's observations, I had allowed myself to say that in this case it is not so much at stake the freedom referred to in Article 19 of the Constitution, as something, at least for me, much more important: the non-baratability of one's beliefs in religious matters. From this point of view, although I have so far voted in the same way as Mr Malan and have very much appreciated his arguments and concerns, as regards the rewording proposed by the rapporteurs on the agenda for the G3.103, as co-signator, I have no difficulty in accepting it, so to make it mine, regardless of what will be the subsequent votes and those already expressed on the subject in our examination. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Compagna, you can only give up the signature on Senator G3.103's agenda, but you cannot decide how the first signatory can do it. If I may suggest a hypothesis, if the rapporteurs were to propose their own agenda which would include the content suggested in the rewording, perhaps a piece of the way would have been done.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u90	Mr President, as rapporteurs, we propose the following agenda: The Senate, in view of the effects of the forecasts referred to in Articles 22 and 23 (2) (d) of the Convention, commits the Government to assess the compatibility of legal assistance measures through kafala or institute similar to constitutional principles and our legal order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does the Government agree with the rapporteur's proposal?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u91	Yes, Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u92	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.103, presented by Senator Giovanardi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G3,700 will not be put to the vote. [[Comments of Senators Caliendo and Gasparri]] Colleagues, if no one insists on the vote, an agenda is accepted and there is no need for a vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u94	Why, Senator Gasparri? Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I wanted to make a statement on the G3700 agenda or speak on the agenda. I welcome this agenda, because it is an element of clarity from the point of view of legal civilisation. If it is right to proceed with ratifications, we cannot accept the subordination of our democratic order based on principles of tolerance to kafala which imposes conversions or conformisms to Islamism. Consider whether a rule made a trust or adoption in Italy subordinate to being Catholic, as this is the prevailing religion: we would all consider it incompatible with the lay principles of our Constitution, although this is a country with a strong Catholic vocation. I think it is important to reiterate the inacceptability of this barbarity of kafala, which I want to define, motivating the adherence to the agenda which, recalling the Constitution, will prevent the transposition of barbaric customs and traditions that require conversion to a religion, some (in this case the Islamic one) in order to be able to decide the future of a child. Consider whether it applied to us, our religions and our tastes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u97	FATTORINI, rapporteur. Mr President, we are talking about barbarism and we have heard from Mr Malan earlier even more clearly. Senator Gasparri, I would like to read to you what Roberto Maroni wrote about the Italian Islam Committee, what Malan was referring to at the beginning of this debate. On 14 July 2010, Interior Minister Roberto Maroni gave his opinion on Italy's ratification of the Hague Convention on the agenda, stressing that the recognition of kafala can be a valuable step in promoting the harmonious integration into the Italian social fabric of "quanti si riconoscono nel fede Islamica." This is barbarism, this is the origin of all evils, the Islamic invasion; I am not talking about a dangerous Bolshevik affiliated with ISIS. In addition, the Committee for Italian Islam so mentioned has highlighted the need to ensure that children who are entrusted through this institution to adults resident in Italy have the same protection as other minors; to this end, it has been hoped that the task of granting the consent provided for in Article 33 of the Convention will be entrusted to the court for minors, which, if custody of abandoned children, will carry out the checks that are provided for in the event of international adoption. That's all I'm saying, and I'm not commenting. [[Applause from Senator Mattesini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u98	Senator, in this sense I urged the reporters to have this active motion so that they could take a step forward. We shall now proceed to the examination of the proposal for an excerpt from S4100, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views. FILIPPIN, rapporteur. I give a favourable opinion. FERRI, State Secretary for Justice. The opinion was in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteurs. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I put to the vote the proposal for the deletion of S4100, tabled by the Commissions. It's approved. As a result of the adoption of the proposal for the deletion of S4.100 in Articles 4 to 12 and 14, the provisions contained therein will be incorporated into the autonomous bill No 1552-bis which will be immediately referred to the relevant parliamentary committees. The amendment to Article 5 is therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 13. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 15. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u101	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to go too far in this explanation of vote. During the debate in this House and also now on the explanations of vote relating to individual articles and amendments, it was noted that the time taken for the transposition of this Convention indicates that there are serious and serious doubts about the content of the Convention. We wish to say a few words first of all on the procedure which led today to the approval of the Convention with the deletion of whole articles. (18.20) (Follows STEFANI). Let us remember the great struggle that was waged in the House by the Group of the North League, raising, alone with respect to all other political parties, the problem connected to the recognition of the institute of kafala. Perhaps only we in the Northern League Group had noticed these problems. Perhaps only we have realized that in fact all that legislation included in addition to the article that transposed, sic et simplicter, the Convention [[. (Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u102	Colleagues, if you all keep talking, it becomes impossible to listen to Senator Stefani.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u103	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Thank you, Madam President. Perhaps only the Group of the North League had realized all the problems related to the discipline of the introduction of the institute of kafala into our system. And only in the Senate Justice Commission have these concerns emerged and consolidated, which led to the approval of the deletion of a large part of the ratification law. In fact, we must remember that, even during the hearings, problems have emerged, raised not only by bodies that can be read as having a certain ideological orientation, but also by a large part of the judiciary. I remember, among these figures, the Italian Association of Friends of Children, the president of the court of minors in Rome, the Italian Association of Judges for minors and for the family and the National Association of adoptive and foster families. So we are not talking about political bodies, we are talking about bodies that work in this sector. And we are also talking about the voice of many lawyers who considered that this part of the discipline that was intended to be introduced would be contrary to our legal order. Also to understand what this kafala is, since many of us do not even know how to place the accent well, we remember that, in countries that inspire their legislation to the Koranic precepts, there is no relationship of sonship other than the biological bond of a descendant that comes from a lawful sexual relationship. Islamic law, therefore, does not recognize and prohibit adoption, as it is considered artificial a legal bond of this nature created by man. Let us remember, therefore, that kafala is an institute of strictly doctrinal derivation, with which is guaranteed, in a certain way, the protection of minors without an environment suitable for their growth. This institution shall not establish any subsidiary relationship. Therefore, we do not reproduce all those legitimate effects that are, for example, recognized by our adoption system: the child does not assume the surname of the father or of those who take care of him or her and does not interrupt relations with the family of origin. This institution, as many previous colleagues have said, is a kind of trust that does not find absolute and express correspondence in our order. But we have to make an assessment of another type. We agree with some of the points made during the hearings. Several audits, which are well founded (and that is why the Commission then considered voting for the full deletion), found a perfect inconsistency in the process of recognition in Italy of the legal assistance of the minor in the situation of abandonment, through the foreign measure of kafala . This is because in all the legislation provided for, still by the House of Deputies, there was a form of child placement which did not take into account at all the need for harmonisation with our internal child protection measures. In other words, this institute, as accepted, did not in any way take into account the child's interest in being protected under conditions of equality within the Italian territory in application of the measures provided for each other resident child. In this explanation of vote we want to say that we are certainly a nation that has been able to cultivate, thanks to our historical tradition, a very great deepening of legal issues. We may feel that we have one of the most guaranteeing and protective legal systems in relation to weak positions. We cannot believe that our legal system has failed to take proper account of the interests of children. Those who know the institutions of family law and those who know the institutions related to adoptions and assignments know how much Italy has a system aimed at protecting, in particular and primarily, the interest of the child. On the other hand, today we see ourselves discussing at this historical moment, in which we can speak extensively of tolerance but also of the difficulties linked to the coexistence between different cultures and religions, of the possibility of introducing into our system an institute that, let us remember, finds its foundation on religious precepts; an institute that belongs to another culture, to another order, which finds it really difficult citizenship in our order. We believe that this type of institution involves a serious and complex violation of the sacred precepts of our Constitution. We are a secular state that must remain so. We are a state that must have its own regulation and we see no reason why we should affect the primary right of the child to be protected for a malcelated goodness towards other types of orientation or other types of order, by receiving institutions that have little to do with us. The reason why we are voting against the approval of the ratification of this Convention, despite the deletion, is that from its careful reading (regardless of the agenda we know the value of), in particular from the reading of Article 3 (c), in which it is said that all the measures taken will be aimed at placing the child in a host family or in an institution or its legal assistance through kafala or similar institution, we fear (although we have read also Articles 22 and 23 on the respect of public order) that the introduction of this provision may lead to a serious difficulty in the management, treatment and discipline of an institution that for us must remain sacrosanct: adoption. So either we talk about adoptions or we don't talk about anything else. In fact, we believe - and we will always support this - that the important element is the position of the child, the child, all those unaccompanied minors, of which we have also spoken on our agenda, who arrive here and of which we do not know who the father or mother is; we do not even know what nationality they are. You probably don't even know what religion they are. So, if a child comes to our soil that we know nothing about, how can we say if it is of Islamic faith, if the institute of kafala will have to be applied or if the adoption process will have to be initiated? We do not want to create confusion because in the end there is a risk of losing real protection. That is why the North-League Group will still vote strongly against this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u106	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-MovX). Madam President, the draft law we are examining is limited to authorising the ratification of the Convention, signed by Italy on 1 April 2003, on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition, enforcement and cooperation in matters of parental responsibility and measures for the protection of minors. There is no point in saying that, as usual, we are always moving with a guilty delay of almost twenty years; delay to which we have tried to remedy only in the past legislature with the presentation of a proposal for a law of parliamentary initiative, while the draft law of government initiative has been presented only in the current legislature. The Hague Convention in 1996 aimed - and still aims - to introduce elements of greater certainty and definition in the field of the protection of minors compared to the previous Convention of 1961, which had left wide margins of uncertainty in the unambiguous definition of the authority competent to provide for the protection of the child in the event that the child was in a country other than his own. This could have happened, as in fact it has already happened, that the responsibility for the protection of the child was placed from time to time on the State of origin rather than on the State of residence, leaving the child in a condition of uncertainty and exposure to risk. The fundamental principle that governs the Convention is that clearly stated by international law on children, that is, that of the best interest of the child who, however, must always prevail both over his belonging to a particular nationality and over the strict application of the national legislation of the host country. In this case, the 1996 Convention clearly states that the competent authority in the matter of protection is that of the State in which the life of the child is actually carried out (where, ultimately, his family ties are located), irrespective of his nationality. Clearly, it is important that responsibility for protecting what is already clearly the weak person should be with the authority closest to him according to the principle of proximity. The measure lays down the criterion of the child's habitual place of residence for the identification of both the competent authority and the applicable law. The aspect that has made the examination of the text more complex in the Commission, as dismissed by the Chamber of Deputies, is that the text of the Convention has among its objectives also to give an adequate legal form in the Italian law to kafala, which is the legal institution for the protection of the abandoned or in difficulty minor, spread in several countries of Islamic religion, in which it is not expected to be adopted. In the course of the hearings in the Justice Committee, there were many problematic aspects in this regard. The text, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies, presented an incongruity in the process of recognition in Italy of the legal assistance of the minor in the situation of abandonment. The provisions did not appear to be in line with Law No 184 of 1993 and subsequent amendments, thus creating the risk of not protecting the child's best interests sufficiently and effectively. Even in the case of a minor in the state of abandonment, the bill No. 1552 provided for a kind of family custody, in the light of the obligation, provided for by the current legislation, to facilitate the establishment of a stable family situation. Such inconsistencies, if not resolved, risked putting into crisis the system of international adoptions. The draft law introduced new institutions such as custody or legal assistance of the child who was not abandoned and legal assistance of the child who was abandoned. Article 4 actually introduced international custody without specifying its requirements. As pointed out by the Italian Association of Judges for minors and the family during the hearings, the combined reading of Articles 4 and 5 - fortunately deleted - led to deduce a partition that sees: minors not in a state of abandonment to which legal assistance is recognized, if coming from Islamic States, and minors instead in custody if coming from other countries (Article 4); children in a state of abandonment to which legal assistance is recognized, if coming from Islamic States (Article 5), and minors coming from other countries to which Article 29 of the legislation on international adoptions applies. Therefore, the difference between legal assistance and custody was essentially the result of the legal institution of the country of origin, in the case of Islamic countries, the kafala. Moreover, the new institute, as it is designed, was able to offer opportunities to circumvent the discipline of international adoptions, in particular for Italian couples, and, on the other hand, did not seem to offer sufficient guarantees of full recognition of the provisions of the foreign State's custody for citizens of their State, including kafala. It is therefore clear that ratification of the Convention cannot certainly result in the transformation of the Islamic Kafala Institute into a kind of international adoption disguised, partly because with a judgment that became final in January 2013, pronounced in relation to the Harroudj case against France, the European Court of Human Rights reiterated that the Kafala Institute is not comparable to that of adoption and, therefore, does not give rise to any kind of parental expectation protected under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights on the right to respect for private and family life. These are the reasons why the Commission took note of the difficult compatibility of the Kafala Institute with the existing legal order and to proceed with the simple ratification of the Convention, removing from the text the rules of internal adaptation and postponing adaptation to subsequent legislative action. This, of course, with the sole aim of interrupting the infringement procedure by the European Commission because of Italy's considerable delay in ratifying the Convention. Having said that, therefore, I am voting in favour of my Group, of course expecting a clear commitment from this Parliament and this Government to resolve the crucial issues that our adaptation to the Convention requires. Without this commitment, ratification of the Convention will remain merely a statement of principles. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group and the Senators Bencini and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u109	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot hide my personal satisfaction with the discussion today of the ratification of the Hague Convention, after a long process of institutional slowdowns, parliamentary misunderstandings and, ultimately, an infringement procedure which has matured in our country. This is a process in which, since the last parliamentary term, I have called for the Convention to be accepted by means of a bill of ratification and makes it particularly clear that it has been necessary to wait several years to arrive at a final resolution of the Convention. An element that deserves attention must be found in the fact that it is dictated by political needs, given the existence of an infringement, and not by the outcome of a path of necessary legislative and institutional awareness. Therefore, a need for speed, more than legitimate, but that involves a greater responsibility at the head of our country. In fact, the 1996 Convention, although ratified, will lack some of the legislative instruments necessary for its full implementation. As has been discussed for several weeks now, one of the particularly critical aspects of the Convention, the main cause of the slowdown in its ratification, must be sought in the discipline of kafala, understood as the only legal institution able to allow the reception in the family of minors whose country of origin does not know the adoption, as happens in some Islamic countries including Morocco, in whose orphanages and institutes live about 65,000 children abandoned. According to the reference standard, individual compatibility issues between the Italian and Islamic legal systems should be addressed on a case-by-case basis, distinguishing between the various kafala measures prior to the approval by the central Italian authority of measures which do not appear to be contrary to national rules on the protection of children and, more generally, to the rules of national public order. These regulatory premises should allow the recognition and regulation of the different measures, in order to make them compatible with those provided for in the internal law, in order to protect minors and their greater interest. All of this, as we can imagine, is quite complex to harmonize with internal law. That is why there should be detailed regulation, in order to confer the necessary competence on the central authority, within the meaning of the Convention. The sensitive nature of the matter has obviously been raised by various objections, which have in fact characterized the nature of the process of ratification to date. For this reason, the idea of freezing the most delicate and therefore uncomfortable part of the Convention is to be understood as a necessary mediation in order to conclude ratification; a mediation that in fact postpones the discussion of the issue, because it could not allow us to ratify a Convention that is then inapplicable in some parts of it. We could talk about a ratification of convenience. The same representative of the Government has expressly stated that it would have been preferable to approve the text in its entirety, but that, in the absence of a rapid agreement on the content of the measure, it was preferable to proceed immediately to a pure and simple ratification, leaving at a later stage the definition of the norms of adaptation of the internal order. It is certainly wise, but it puts us in a situation of partial ratification, which risks distorting the ratio of the measure. In this scenario, I wanted to put forward amending proposals on the integration of the provisions of the Convention into the Italian legal system, but I did not want to represent them here, sharing the need to proceed with a rapid version of ratification, a speedy one which, however, must not be the pass of a future legislative neglect on the subject. The hope is that we will be faced with a momentary excerpt, as the reporters wish, and not with a sort of regulatory pantano, in order to create the conditions to ensure the child the protection of his/her higher interest, if there are family and personal situations of particular discomfort and suffering, exorcising at the same time contrasts with the Italian domestic legislation, in particular with the principles in force in the matter of adoption and custody. On this very point, further reflection is worthwhile. Recognizing the institute of kafala in our order does not amount to accepting its effects tout court, almost passive and automatic, but it means on the contrary, as well as giving legitimate follow-up to an international commitment, also remodelling a legal institution of foreign law to the dictates and requirements of Italian legislation. Certainly this is an innovative discipline, before which some doubt on the part of the legislator seems more than plausible. But rather than abandoning ourselves to fruitless ideological perches, it would be necessary to contextualize the discipline, first of all understanding how this would fit into the daily life and would regulate situations otherwise unmanageable. Colleagues, here we are talking about abandoned children: we cannot afford the luxury of blocking the road to innovative forms of protection, recognized already in other European countries, just because they have been the expression of Islamic law. It is worth remembering that Italy is the only - I repeat: the only European country that has not yet regulated this institution for the protection of minors from Islamic countries. However, we have an obligation to allow the best and most harmonious legal framework within which this institute can be regulated and applied, according to the principle of case by case, because there are many cases in which some parents, although having in the hands of judgments of kafala of foreign courts, according to which they are foster parents, cannot reunite with their children. The assessment of the case by case is even more important if the case-law on the matter, for example the judgment of the Court of Cassation in joined sections, is taken into account. That judgment, of September 2013, reiterated that the nullity cannot be refused to the entry into the national territory of a minor with a measure of kafala, if there are certain conditions, always and in any case in the interests of the child. This pronunciation gives us the weight of the pregnance of the matter and the imperative need to proceed quickly to its regulation, not only - I repeat - in order to prevent the credibility of our country, on the side of international legislation, from being compromised, but above all in order to allow full, legitimate and consistent protection with national and international principles, of children abandoned, regardless of the legal, religious and cultural nature of the country of origin. Colleagues, the protection of the prime interest of the child is one of the cornerstones of a state that aspires to be democratic and of law and we must not forget this in the face of regulations, albeit objectively complex, intimidated by potential risks to the cultural and religious estate of our country. We must overcome this blatant discrimination between instruments of child protection and therefore between children, together outlining a legislative timing that leads to the treatment of the deleted parties of the ratification decree. On this basis, I believe that it is important to come to the final resolution today and then proceed to ratification, which I would call formal and not substantial. For this reason I highlight the Group of the People's Area vote in favour of the draft ratification law under consideration because we want to focus on the ratio of the Convention, as enshrined in Article 1, beyond any other ideological declination. Our priority must be to improve and expand the instruments available to the legal order, in order to offer real and necessary protection to thousands of children in conditions of abandonment and, at the same time, to give answers to those couples who are finally waiting for the recognition of their right to be parents. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and the Senators Bianconi and Filippin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u112	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of the Hague Convention of 19 October 1996 on parental responsibility and child protection measures, on which our Parliament has been called upon for many years, is now partially completed. In general, with the instrument of the Convention, the signatory countries, through ratification and not simply by signing, create a common legal area for the optimal regulation of issues of common interest. In the specific case, the spirit of the Hague Convention is well summarized in Article 33 - as was said before - in which, in order to guarantee the best possible protection for the child, cooperation between the authorities of the country of origin and those of the host country is promoted, in case the child is entrusted by the authorities of his country, in a more or less stable way, to a family resident in another country or is placed in a reception structure. Italy is the last of the European countries to ratify the Hague Convention after last September 1 Belgium also fulfilled this duty. The choice to opt for the ratification tout court of the Convention, instead delaying the definition of the rules by which our legal system will have to adapt to the new institutions of protection of the child in it, stems from the continuous calls of the Council of the European Union and the imminent opening of an infringement procedure against our country by the European Commission, due to the accumulated delay. Italy signed the Hague Convention in 2003, seven years late, and is ratifying it even twelve years late, despite the continuing pressure from Brussels. It is clear that this is what Europe is asking for. It is extraordinarily binding on some issues rather than others. Faced with the perplexities expressed by the Senate's Justice and Foreign Affairs Commissions regarding the measures by which the Government intended to give a legal status in our legal system to the institute of kafala, typical of the Islamic world, it was thought to remove most of the articles, as happened in the vote, contained in the bill no. 1552 and to postpone the interventions on domestic law, even if necessary, to better times. The kafala is an institute provided by Islamic law with which, starting from the assumption of the prohibition of adoption imposed by the Koranic law, one wants to avoid that children without parents remain without protection. With kafala, in fact, a Muslim adult or a married couple gets the custody of that abandoned minor who could not be entrusted to the care of relatives. The relationship between the affidator and the minor is limited exclusively to the obligation of the former to provide for the maintenance and education of the latter, until the attainment of the greater age. Between the two, no relationship of sonship is determined and, therefore, no other effect is produced: the child does not take on the surname of the person who has obtained the custody, acquires no rights or expectations successors to him, does not establish legal ties with the host family, nor interrupts relations with his family of origin. It is understandable therefore the fear expressed by Senator Candiani and other colleagues who intervened earlier, as there is no correspondence in the Italian legal order, although the Court of Cassation by judgment of 23 November 2011, while recognizing the international adoption as the only instrument by which the insertion of a minor foreigner in our country can take place, has substantially compared the kafala to the institution of family custody. To support this approach there are countless legal studies, but allow me colleagues, to disagree on a point that I consider qualifying and that, if you follow the letter of Law No 149 of 2001, would justify a different legal framework of kafala compared to family custody. While in kafala the affidator is obliged to guarantee the maintenance and education of the minor until the end of the eighteenth year of age, the family custody provided for in our order is instead identified, as a temporary measure, which by law must not last more than twenty-four months, unless extended, and configure itself as functional to the return of the child to the family of origin. In view of the obvious shortcomings in the texts presented, which are incapable - especially that of the Government - of identifying in our system a legal form similar to kafala and therefore destined to produce further confusion in the application of Law No 184 of 1983, which is in itself chaotic and cumbersome in guaranteeing effectively the right of the child to have a family, we ask ourselves how much longer we will have to wait to adapt our order to an institution, that of kafala, specifically provided for in the text of the Convention of which we are now authorising ratification. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that this is actually guaranteeing the child's exclusive interest, which is the guiding principle of the 1996 Convention? That is not what we want, and for these reasons, as is the custom of the 5 Star Movement, we will vote in favour because we do not have any further delays with ratification. We hope, however, that the necessary adaptation rules will be adopted in good time, in the light of what has happened in most European countries, and above all, by taking the opportunity to review the institution of the foster care in order to adapt our legislation as much as possible, not so much by bringing the principles of our order into line with kafala, as kafala with the constitutional principles of our State. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u113	I address a greeting to the representatives of the associations "ARCA Mori Vecio" of Mori, in the province of Trento, and Young Democrats of Lecco. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u116	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the work they have done... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u117	I apologize, Senator Malan. Colleagues, if you don't lower your voice, I think everyone has a hard time following who wants to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u118	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] Please, Senator Malan. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Mr President. As I said, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their conscientious and attentive work, although I disagree with the conclusions we have reached each other. This Convention, which, with our vote (which, alas, I fear, will be a majority in favour) will authorize the President of the Republic to ratify, will introduce the institution of kafala into our order. Article 2 says: full and full execution is given to the Convention from a date, which, basically, we can predict will be August 1st or September 1st. What is kafala? In the Islamic order adoption is prohibited, since children are only those generated by sexual relations considered legitimate, so within marriage. In order to take care of minors who do not have those who take care of them, there is the institute of kafala, which is very, very different from the institution of adoption and custody, which currently, even assuming that the full transposition of this Convention into our law takes place, would continue to be the only institutions to which an Italian non-Islamic family could refer. The kafala provides that there is a permanent custody, up to the age of age, at least in the form in which it is mentioned in the Convention, which however, does not involve the entry of the minor into the family: the minor does not mature any hereditary right; he does not become a brother of the children of the couple to whom he is entrusted; he does not become a grandson of the parents of this couple; he does not become a child of these parents. He may even be married by members of his family, that is, by those who, if it were an adoption, would call brothers or parents. This institute, which is precisely Islamic law, as explicitly stated in the Convention, because of the abuses that were perpetrated through it, has been abolished in Bahrain and its abolition is in question (or, at least, measures that severely limit its danger) in several other countries with an overwhelming Islamic majority or, even, based on Islamic law such as - no less - Saudi Arabia, which is not precisely an ultraliberal state, dangerously hostile to Islam, but exactly the opposite. The Committee for Italian Islam, set up at the Presidency of the Council and the Ministry of the Interior in 2010, has drawn up a report, of which unfortunately we have not had the opportunity to make use because it wanted to proceed very quickly; from an extract, however, we learn that this Committee, which - we repeat - gathers representatives of the main Islamic organizations in Italy, argues that the transposition into Italian law of the kafala in which a foreigner is entrusted does not guarantee sufficient preventive control over the effective compliance of the custody to the interests of the child, for example to exclude that through the kafala they arrive in Italy brides girls, or minors destined to constitute an early labor force. The reason why this institute was abolished in Bahrain is that many workers, who were brought to that state through kafala, were exploited at a para-slave level or, even, substantially slavery, as has also been stated by official bodies in other countries that have not yet abolished it, but are studying, at least, its limitation. It was a good thing to vote for the deletion, proposed by the rapporteurs, of the rules that the House has unfortunately approved; it is a good thing that there is a second Chamber that corrects the very serious errors made by the other, because it is better a law that takes a month or two more, rather than a very wrong law. Fortunately, therefore, the articles which introduced the rules for transposing this institution into our law have been wisely deleted; however, since there are no rules, we do not even have those which limit the dangers associated with it. The recommendation that the Italian Islam Committee had made was that there should be rules, that they should actively and effectively prevent possible abuse. We should take a look at the reason why kafala is in the public eye, or at least the media that deal with these issues at international level. If you search on the Internet for the term "kafala" in English, you will see that most quotations relate to cases of serious abuse of this institution. In particular, Qatar is mentioned, where there is even talk of hundreds of deaths at work among workers who have been brought to that country from abroad through kafala. Of course, there are many couples who want to make use of this institute for good reasons, but in the meantime it would be a question of introducing in Italy an institute that is not in our history, in our right and from which non-Muslim religious families would be excluded (there would be, therefore, much to say about compliance with Article 3 of the Constitution). The draft agenda drawn up by the rapporteurs, which has been accepted, is also welcome and positive. The agenda invites the Government to assess (so, in truth, not too strict, but let's take it as a good one) the compatibility of this institute with the Constitution and with the Italian order. But would it not be better to make this assessment before approving the Convention? Instead, we first approve it and then evaluate whether it is compatible with Italian law. The agenda itself is a good one, but it makes it clear that there are problems. The problem cannot be solved by the prediction that the application of this institution cannot give rise to problems of public order, because unfortunately the problems are all too private. It is enough, for example, to read the report on the condition of women in particular, even worse if they are underage (because they are only underage in this transposition, because obviously a greater age under protection would be totally incompatible with our right); it is enough to read about the abuses suffered by women by their kafil, i.e. the people who adopt them. The title of one of the most important of these reports, written by Human rights watch, a highly regarded international organization, is "I have bought you": it is what the kafil say that abuse, both from a professional and sexual point of view, of these women, of course often very young. Let's remember that these people, while making us think of a form like adoption, are not considered members of families, so it is not incest to have relations with them. They are also in a relationship of weakness, because in our country they would be completely in the hands of those who adopt them, who do not assume against them obligations - for example - at the hereditary level, and without having the right, on the basis of the laws in force, to assume Italian citizenship, because they would be neither children nor brothers of Italian citizens. A further possibility of exploiting this institution is the fact that it will then have to invent the form to give them citizenship. If we add the danger - not only I say so, but also the Committee for Italian Islam with representatives of the Islamic organization in Italy - of the bride and groom girls, of the exploitation of work, of the use of this institute to bring to Italy people who otherwise would not have title, I would say that it would be much better to reject this measure or at least - as we have asked - delay its approval. Therefore, we shall vote against, hoping that the majority of the Senate will do so. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u121	MATTESINI (PD). Madam President, between today and tomorrow, the Senate is going to vote on two very important measures that have children's rights at the centre, an issue that the whole of politics deals with absolutely insufficient. Then let us welcome the approval of the dry ratification of the Hague Convention, even if it is 16 years late. I would stress that the Hague Convention has also become mandatory following the 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child, which introduced a profound change in the approach of international law to the protection of children and which should be our lighthouse whenever we talk about children. In Article 3, it shall read as follows: In all decisions relating to children, whether by public or private institutions, social assistance, courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the best interests of the child must be a primary consideration. That is exactly what leads us to ratify this measure. I remember that kafala is an institute assimilable to the entrust and certainly not to the adoption and that, through a judicial procedure, determines the reception of minors. It is an unknown institution in our country, but already many European countries, in compliance with the same Convention, have approved. I am referring to France, Spain, Luxembourg and the United Kingdom. Italy must ratify the Convention. By the way, we're at risk of infringement. It is necessary to ratify this Convention because it regulates in detail the modalities of every kind of measure to be emitted for the protection of minors, also in view of the increasing dimension of migratory flows and the evolution that characterizes the development of so-called mixed marriages. The Convention regulates the implementation of certain forms of protection for minors, with particular attention to cases where the minor to whom such measures are addressed is a national of a State other than that in which they are to be applied in practice. These measures are listed in detail in Article 3 of the Convention and are: the exercise of parental responsibility, the right of custody and visit, the protection and care of, representation and assistance, the patrimonial administration, including the placing of the child in kafala provided for by the Islamic state systems. It should be recalled, in order to make it clear, that Article 4 of the Convention explicitly excludes from its scope the adoption and the measures which prepare it. Wrong information and assessments were given in this debate. I would stress that the text on which the two Joint Commissions worked, and therefore the text voted on in the House, was not limited to the mere ratification of the Hague Convention, but also provided for a set of rules for adapting to the internal order, which we have decided to withdraw. In particular, Mr Malan, who is not here at the moment, has chosen to delete the articles, is already a very rigorous act, with regard to the awareness that some of the choices made in the text approved in the Chamber, in fact, put in difficulty the adaptation to our order. These rules were therefore to be deleted - for example - because the provision was based in the Chamber on the distinction between the protection by kafala of a minor not in a state of abandonment and that of a minor in a state of abandonment. And this, of course, seems difficult to harmonize with the current discipline expressed by Law No 184 of 1983, as it actually introduces international custody. Similarly, the same Article 5 (which we deleted) in some way justified the concern that it might give rise to the discipline of adoption, in fact opening a parallel international adoption procedure, circumventing the adoption procedure already governed by the Hague Convention of 1993. Therefore, by adopting the Convention in a dry way and deleting the articles, we have really made an important choice. However, I would like to point out that, precisely because the kafala was already foreseen in the ratification of the 1989 Child Convention - and was therefore already present in our legal system - it has been the subject of repeated interventions on the part of our judicial system. Not least is the decision of 2013 of the Chambers of the Supreme Court which, in addition to wishing to ratify the Hague Convention of 1996, reaffirms that in every situation in which the interest of the child is emphasized, it must be ensured that it prevails over any conflicting interests and that, in the interpretation of the constitutionally oriented norms and their due production in the constitutional framework, i.e. in compliance with the principle of equality, unequal treatment of the least needy of the Islamic countries must be prohibited. The same judgment makes it clear that the affidavit does not have the powers of representation or protection, which remain conferred on the competent public authorities. I would like to stress, therefore, once again, the right choice made by the two Commissions on the subject, which the two rapporteurs have proposed to us and which this House has voted on, to proceed with the dry ratification of the Convention, removing Articles 4 to 12 and 14, but fully aware that we must proceed quickly to the definition of the additional adaptation rules removed, in order to make the rules for the protection of minors applicable as soon as possible and in a uniform manner. I repeat, therefore, that approving this act and moving forward quickly to the undertaking expressed in this House by many Members - to take up the text of the draft law already adopted in the House of Members - is also important in order not to find ourselves in the paradoxical situation of having ratified the Convention and not having the actual instruments to make it operationally feasible. By declaring the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour, however, I would like to conclude my speech by addressing those colleagues (I am thinking of Malan, Caliendo, Candiani and others) who, in an instrumental way - let me say this - have spoken about the problems of minors, trafficking and children who are being abandoned. I would remind you that those 3,700 children who have disappeared after landing on our territories could claim from politics a rigour and consistency that I do not find, if I think at any time that this House, the current Government and the others of the past have proposed specific, important funding. We need a policy of reception so that those children do not disappear, do not end up in the route or in those paths that have been remembered. They need resources, and in particular to have a first welcome made in a dignified way, with a network of communities that can allow the immediate sorting of minors. There is therefore a need for consistency. I have never seen anyone in this House who has been instrumentally reminded of this issue and voted in favour of the commitment of essential resources. Indeed, we have found in their votes and statements an expression of dislike with regard to these issues. Therefore, in thanking for the work done for the approval of this Convention, to exploit children who should be the heart of our political attention is something that I do not accept and that I do not think is acceptable, because in Italy we have a major minor emergency. We are the country with the highest birthday in Europe and we should start with the issue of minors, to put at the centre of our political action everything about this issue, starting with the rapid approval in the coming months of the part removed from the measure today. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u122	I note that the rapporteurs have presented the proposal for coordination C1, which has already been distributed and which is intended to be presented. Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall put it to the vote. It's approved. We shall therefore proceed to the final vote. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill No 1552 as a whole, in the amended text, with the following title: Ratification and enforcement of the Convention on Jurisdiction, Applicable Laws, Recognition, Enforcement and Cooperation in Parental Responsibility and Measures for the Protection of Children, done at the Hague on 19 October 1996 (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Campanella]] Thus, the draft law No 572 is absorbed. As agreed between the Groups, the follow-up to the examination of draft law No 1209 is postponed to another session.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u125	GRANAIOLA (PD). Madam President, I have asked to speak in order to highlight the serious situation that Versilia will face as a result of the damage caused on Wednesday night by what we can call a real hurricane, which will also have a serious impact on the summer season, which is a crucial period for our economy. The image of a cusp of bell tower carried away by the wind and planted in the roof of a nearby building could recall a scene of a catastrophic film. But unfortunately, today, in Versilia, it is a bitter reality that well represents the state of things. Hundreds of secular trees uprooted, places of culture and our memory upset, damage to buildings, infrastructure and economic structures is the picture with which Versilia is called to deal in a moment already in itself particularly difficult. The President of the Council told the mayors of Versilia to reassure the community that the Government will closely follow the story. Undersecretary Manzione told the prefect, me and the mayors that Versilia will not be left alone. The President of the Region has asked to declare the state of calamity and to intervene effectively in order to overcome this umpteenth emergency with decisive measures. But you have to hurry. A decree is needed immediately to cover the urgent amounts that mayors are facing, also to prevent further serious damage, especially in high Versilia. The fall of hundreds of trees constitutes a serious risk to the holding of the territory. If the rains return, a possible storm could drag the fallen trees and trunks into the canals, creating a catastrophic dam effect. I would like to remind you that the fury of the wind has even destroyed the large stone bearing the names of the 560 victims of the Nazi-fascist massacre of 12 August 1944 in Sant'Anna di Stazzema. It was a marble tombstone. You can, therefore, imagine the strength of the wind and the damage caused. The park of Versiliana no longer exists. Forte dei Marmi is totally devastated. The last bulwark of tourism in Versilia, the most important, is really reduced to exhaustion. Florovivaism is totally destroyed. So, Madam President, we really hope that, when the President-in-Office says that Versilia will not be left alone, it really is not, showing it with concrete and, above all, urgent facts. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Paglini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u126	Senator Granaiola, the Presidency takes note of your important words.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u129	MATTESINI (PD). Madam President, I join with the assessments already carried out by Senator Granaiola to recall that, on Thursday to Sunday, all of Tuscany was devastated by a storm of wind, something unpredictable that, even if it had been predictable, was impossible to stop. We had a wind that blew between 120 and 170 kilometers per hour, with huge damage whose quantification is still ongoing throughout the region. In the province of Arezzo alone, calculating them downwards, in these days damage has been estimated between 80 and 130 million. Secular uprooted trees have raised several square meters of asphalt, with huge damage to the underlying superstructures and private homes. One figure for all: I quote the municipality of Sansepolcro, where 80% of housing and 70% of businesses have suffered damage. But this applies to the whole Province. Some companies have been found, causing huge damage to internal machinery as well. Many of them have yet to resume their activity. Almost destroyed is the agricultural sector, the flower garden, as well as tobacco growing. In addition, huge damage has suffered a valuable asset, difficult to quantify: the landscape. For Tuscany the landscape is a huge source of resources, identity for the whole territory. I mention only - and I think it is well known by all - the Sanctuary of Verna, which is reached through a beautiful secular pine forest. Well, even there were destroyed from 3 to 4 hectares of forest. The Tuscany Region has promptly declared the state of emergency. I therefore speak to urge the Government, once the damage has been quantified, to declare the state of natural disaster. There is a real need for immediate support so that companies can start again and families can live safely in their homes. There are still damaged houses and homes that, despite the extraordinary work of Civil Protection and Fire Departments, are still without light a week later. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u130	Senator Mattesini, the Presidency will address the issues raised so far.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u133	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, at the age of 86 Peppino Fumagalli, patron of the Candy Group, died. With his father Eden, his brothers Niso and Enzo, he was the inventor in 1946 of the first Italian washing machine. Appointed after the death of his father CEO, in 1970 he led the company of Brianza to operate with international brands such as Candy and Hoover, employing 5,300 employees in eight plants with a turnover of more than 860 million. It is a symbol of Italy that produces in a historical period perhaps unrepeatable. I would like to remind you with your words: The task of a company is to work seriously, make intelligent products and sell them at an honest price. We lose a shrewd, reserved man who gave lustre to the country with his ingenuity and intuitions, a member of a family that helped bring the name of Italy into the world, strengthening the beautiful image of our country. I would like to express on my personal behalf in Beppe, Aldo, Silvano and Maurizio my deepest condolences for this serious loss to the Italian industrial world. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVI Group and Senator Albano]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u134	Thank you, Senator. The Presidency supports the family's condolences.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u137	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Madam President, even in Abruzzo bad weather has caused considerable damage and created considerable dangers. In particular, I want to point out a very serious problem, which was the consequence of a very normal winter disturbance, even if a little more challenging than others. I am referring to the explosion of a pipeline, which took place on Friday 6 March in the municipality of Mutignano in the province of Teramo in Abruzzo. There have been injuries and serious damage and, only by a miracle, there has been no massacre. This is not the first time that accidents of this kind have occurred. I believe that an accident like this must cause the whole of Parliament to reflect and, of course, the Government and its bureaucratic structures: if only following a shock, there has been such a serious explosion, also considering that Mutignano is not in the seismic zone, we can easily imagine what could happen with similar instruments of methane pipeline in seismic zones. The prosecutor of the Republic at the court of Teramo, following the accident in Matignano, opened a criminal procedure for manslaughter and manslaughter. I will confidently await, like everyone else, the outcome of this judicial process. In the meantime, however, I intend to point out again and for the umpteenth time that the competent Ministry is deciding to place in Abruzzo, in the inland areas, and precisely in the Peligna valley, an area at very high seismic risk, another methane pipeline and that all the social partners, many parties and movements, committees, municipalities and the Region ask the Ministry to change course. And you can change your path, because there are alternatives. I would ask you, Mr President, to speak with the competent Ministry for this huge alarm that came out of the accident in Matignano. The gas pipeline in Abruzzo cannot cover areas of high seismic risk. It would be a wrong, serious choice, with repercussions on the environment and dangers for the population of enormous size. Unfortunately, Abruzzo is very fragile, and this has been demonstrated by significant seismic events that could happen again. To realize a new methane pipeline in areas with high seismic risk would defy the fragility of Abruzzo. I trust in the intelligence and sensitivity of the Ministry, which I invite to quickly convene a meeting with the Regions - they are more than one to protest - to identify a new path. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, the Presidency will interpret your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u140	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, as the two senators have already announced before me, I would very much like to point out what happened last week. In the night between Thursday and Friday, Tuscany was struck by a terrible calamity that, from the national media, did not come out because of the actual gravity. In practice, we suffered a sort of abnormal hurricane presented as a leopard spot, with winds blowing at more than 200 kilometers per hour. Many municipalities have been devastated by the very strong wind of Greek, which has massacred trees, some even secular, uprooting them and tearing them down to thousands. They collapsed on rooftops, companies, hospitals, schools and private buildings. There's been landslides. Everything around it was damaged. Everything has been blocked, even the railway line between Florence and Pistoia. The wind took away the bars of a level passage. On Sunday I did an inspection in the Versilia area, where about 22,000 plants came down, some of them centuries old. If this atmospheric phenomenon had occurred during the day, it would certainly have been a massacre. Disaggi have also registered on the highway Firenze-Lucca. A few days away from the hurricane, hundreds of people are still working to bring back to normal Pistoia, Versilia, the Livorno coast, the territory of Massa-Carrara, the hinterland and the coastal area as soon as possible. Very large were the damages in Valdinievole, where sheds, greenhouses and nurseries were hit. The damage balance is still ongoing. Very serious and also symbolically relevant is what happened to Sant'Anna di Stazzema, where the fury of the wind devastated the Park of peace that recalls the massacre of 1944. The tombstone with the name of the victims of the Nazi massacre shattered and the church was found. As the 70th anniversary of liberation approaches, we hope that the restoration measures will be implemented quickly. The actual gravity of what has happened has not passed. I hope that the government is not underestimating the disaster, yet another one that has recently struck Tuscany. The fear is that citizens could still be abandoned and, after urgent action, forced to manage themselves. Promises have been made by Minister Martina and undersecretary Velo but, as stated by the Civil Protection, in the thirty emergencies that have been dealt with since the end of 2013, the Council of Ministers has not yet deliberated economic resources to compensate individuals. Meanwhile, the Tuscany Region has declared the state of regional emergency with a decree of President Rossi. Private individuals and companies that had suffered damage were invited to collect photographic documentation and invoices for the subsequent reporting, to obtain compensation. But we would not want it to be yet another commercial intervention and, when the emergency is over, it will be discovered that little or nothing will be refunded. That is what happened in the last calamities, where for reasons of spending review, after resolving the imminent danger situations, it was said that there were no more resources available. I'm filing a question for yet another disaster in Tuscany. We in the 5 Star Movement hope that the citizens will be truly listened to and helped this time. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u143	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor. I would like to remind you of something which, unfortunately, is, once again, investing in working families. I am referring to the situation in which Jabil, a company in Marcianise, is in crisis, a flagship of micro-electronics, where hundreds of highly skilled workers operate. A few months ago, Jabil opened a final table at the Ministry of Economic Development and, in the end, 205 redundancies were decided. We are fighting strongly to find a different solution and this company can be part of the suppliers of the great Finmeccanica, fortunately still Italian, even if I heard voices according to which you want to sell this flagship of the Italian industry. As long as we're there, we'll fight for this to not happen. There's been a new deal lately in the Marcianise area. In particular, Ericsson has declared that she wants to leave Italy: once again a great company wants to leave our country. We are pushing - and I really hope that this will also be accepted by the Government - for these situations to be resolved by politics, because we have seen that unfortunately there is more and more of them. It is, therefore, a social problem, which politics must take on, and on which we are calling on the Government to intervene loudly. What did Ericsson do when she made that statement? He decided to transfer a branch of company to Jabil, always in the same area as Marcianise. I remember, however, that Jabil, however, already has problems. Then I truly hope that the Ministry will monitor and monitor, so that the workers of Jabil will have guarantees. Why do I say that? Today - just today - the work of the Senate of the Republic was planned at the Commission - I am one of its members - the hearing of the trade union representatives who are dealing with the transfer of branch of company, and we also wanted to listen to the company representatives. The hearing was absolved, because at 5 a.m. this night they closed a hypothesis of agreement (this is, therefore, a pre-agreement). We're glad they managed to make this deal, though at 5:00 in the morning. We realize that they absolutely wanted to close the negotiations before they came to the Senate. On the one hand, it is good that an agreement has been made (the same unions have asked not to come today, because they also signed the agreement). However, there is one problem: the workers of Jabil were not aware of this agreement and, frankly, they are also to be considered. It will, in fact, be the same Jabil to incorporate the branch of company of Ericsson. I am seriously concerned about this, Madam President, and so I would like the Presidency to take charge of it. I once again urge the Government to reply to the question 3-01409 which I tabled a few months ago on Jabil, in which all the matters to be taken into account are specified. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u144	We greet the second tranche of the members of the association "ARCA Mori Vecio" of Mori, in the province of Trento. Welcome to the Senate, even though we're closing session. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u145	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-406.ana.u146	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 11 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.39.
