ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u3	I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Italian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Central Initiative (INCE) is convened on Wednesday 11 March 2015, at 8 a.m., at the Senate of the Republic, for the third ballot for the election of the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u4	The next item is: Information from the Minister of the Interior on the recent devastation caused in Rome by a group of Dutch fans and on the management of security at sporting events. I call the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 19 February Rome was outraged to see one of its most beloved places offended and disfigured, the object of the vandalism of a group of Dutch supporters who came to the capital to attend a football match of the Feyenoord team. The uncivilized aggression against the Bernini fountain will be long remembered for the gravity of moral damage, even before material damage, inflicted on the values of culture and civilization. (16.08) (Alfano followed) Angelino, Minister for the Interior). As you know, the Dutch authorities themselves, at the highest levels of government and publicly through the mayor of Rotterdam and the embassy of the Netherlands, wanted to express solidarity with Italy and Rome, condemning the intolerable behaviour of their fellow citizens. Spontaneous fundraising initiatives are also being multiplied in Holland to contribute to the restoration of the damaged fountain: they are genuine testimonies of friendship between the two countries and also of the recognition of the universality of the artistic heritage of which Italy is the guardian. There is still the fact that the February 19 taffles have matured on the margins and at a sporting event. It is for this reason that I have urged the bodies that govern European football and the institutions themselves in Brussels to take seriously the idea of transposing into the continental context our measure of the DASPO, which has been perfected by Decree-Law No 119 of 2014, also with regard to individual and group elements committed outside our borders. I will talk about this in the Justice and Home Affairs Council (JHA) on 12 March to achieve the broadest convergence on the introduction of a measure that closes the doors of the stadiums to the violent, not only in our country, but also in all those of the united Europe that suffer a revival of the phenomenon. I trust, however, that UEFA will react promptly and that it will adopt exemplary disciplinary sanctions against Dutch hooligans. As for the incidents that occurred between 17 and 19 February last, I would like to point out that since January there had been reports from the Dutch police bodies on the fact that the meeting with Feyenoord could have attracted more than 5,000 supporters of the Rotterdam team to the capital, of which about 250 considered particularly dangerous. International police cooperation has been activated in good time and has also continued in the course of the events, as evidenced by the fact that six Dutch officials have been sent to follow up the team. These contacts between the police of the two countries continue to identify those responsible for the acts of hooliganism. In view of the considerable influx of foreign fans, the security system has provided for the intensification of police controls at the nerve points of the city, starting - of course - from the area in front of the Olympic stadium and, in particular, for the filtering of typhoseries and the immediate detection of potentially dangerous people and groups. precautionary measures have also been taken with regard to the places of transit of Dutch fans, considering that their arrival in Rome took place by various means of transport and in scattered groups. The security plan provided for Dutch supporters to be transported to the meeting point set up by the police station in Rome at Piazzale delle Canestre, inside Villa Borghese, and from there they were ordered to the Olimpico on board buses made available by the ATAC and escorted by personnel of the Forces of Order. It was, in fact, a constant concern to prevent Dutch fans, especially those more prone to violence, from coming into contact with fringes of the ultra-Romanist groups and giving rise to possible clashes. Let me stress that this danger, which is far from hypothetical, has been averted. The greatest danger was possible ambushes which, according to the available information, could have taken place along the Via Flaminia in case Dutch supporter groups decided, as had been announced, to walk towards the Olympic Stadium. This risk became concrete when thousands of Dutch fans (about 3,000), who came spontaneously and to small groups to gather in the Spanish piazza, manifested their intention to march and move the procession towards the Olimpico, passing through Piazza del Popolo and following Via Flaminia. It is at this juncture that the police have put forth their effort to direct the fans to the pre-defined point of connection, channeling them into the adjacent street of San Sebastianello, in order to avoid the passage to the stairway of Trinità dei Monti. While one half of the Dutch fanship was directed, according to the instructions given, towards Piazzale delle Canestre, the other half, instead, determined not to comply, gave rise to a dense launch of blunt objects, paper bombs and smoke bombs at the address of the Forces of Order, forced at that point to lightening actions. As the press orders reported, the devastating fury of Dutch fans was also to be linked to their obvious state of drunkenness. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , despite the prohibition of the sale and administration of alcohol and spirits imposed from the day before by the prefect of Rome in a vast area of the Capital. Of course, the difficulties of the operating environment are easily intuitable. The taffles caused by the aggressive behavior of the most violent fringes of the Dutch fans were in the center and in a peak hour, when Piazza di Spagna usually recorded one of the highest peaks of passers-by and tourists and close to crowded and sensitive places, such as the metro station and the schools of the area, however interested at that time by the evacuation of the young pupils. At this point I would like to point out that, in public policy activities, it is essential that police intervention adheres to the golden rule of the containment of damage, especially in cases where there is at stake the safety of citizens who are completely alien to the clashes and unaware of the danger. I am obliged to point out, in relation to the security and public order requirements determined by the football event, that Rome was guarded, as well as by the ordinary system of territorial control, by an additional rate of 1,800 men of the State Police, the Arm of the Carabinieri and the Finance Guard, of which a third was responsible for the control of the historic center, where the presence of the Dutch fans had been concentrated and where the clashes broke out. The action of the police forces has led to neutralize some of the most violent hooligans: six Dutch, in fact, were arrested and referred to the judicial authority for resistance, violence and injury to the public officer. The measures were all validated and the gip accepted the request of the public prosecutor to apply the precautionary measure of the prohibition of residence in Rome, carried out at the following hours. Nineteen law enforcement agents and five fans were bruised in the taffles, fortunately reporting non-serious injuries. It pains to see the Bernini Boat defaced by the incivilization that, in those fringes, has turned against it. At the same time, I remember that no citizen and no tourist was involved in the clashes. A final assessment of the public order activities, which takes into account that nothing is more difficult than to govern and read the square, must take note that, in the delicate and complex circumstances in which it was operated, neither professionalism nor balance have been lacking. I would like to point out, with regard to the reading of the square and the effects that this reading determines, that our country has had opposing problems. I brought some front pages of newspapers in 1997 and 2007, in which it was the excess opposed to having caused, even, a diplomatic crisis, whose titles are: "London accuses Italy," "London accuses the police." Italy was accused of the excesses, at that time, of the police. And the same goes for 10 years later: "Scontri all'Olimpico," "London attacks," "Beat the Manchester fans by the police," with UEFA having opened an accident investigation. All this to say that the management of public order can provoke reactions on one side and on the other, depending on the effects that occur, and our country, precisely in relation to international football competitions, has also been the subject of accusations by UEFA and other countries, which have caused diplomatic incidents on the opposite side. I'll get back to it. Even in the previous evenings, on 17 and 18 February, the intemperance of Dutch fans, which took place in Campo de' Fiori, were faced with the same kind of approach: an approach that does not mean remissiveness and condescendingness. I remember, in fact, that on that occasion 23 supporters of Feyenoord were arrested, judged by the court of Rome with a very direct rite and sentenced for resistance to public officer, injury and fight. The precautionary measure of the prohibition of residence in the territory of the municipality of Rome was also applied to them and, at the expense of 22 of them, the prohibition of access to sporting events, known as DASPO, was issued. Just the hint at the DASPO offers me the starting point to emphasize that the performance of the game took place in a frame of composure and without recording facts of importance or of particular significance for public order, thanks also to the imposing control device concentrated in the proximity of the Olimpico and along the access routes to the stadium. Let me say that such a satisfactory outcome in specific reference to the game was not taken for granted after the disturbing events that preceded the meeting and made the climate glowing. Let me now turn to other more general considerations. The contrast to the phenomenon of violence since the stadium has long been centred, at the central level, on the National Observatory on sporting events which, among its many tasks, also includes the assessment of the risk of the sporting event, game by game. When the event is considered of particular importance from the point of view of the risk, a special inter- and interdisciplinary body enters into action, the analysis committee for the safety of sporting events, which ensures the necessary contacts with the provincial authorities of public security and to issue the necessary guidelines for the management of the event. Moreover, at the peripheral level, specialized units of the State Police have long been operating at DIGOS throughout Italy, which maintain a constant attention to the phenomenon as well as contacts with companies and typhoseries. Last year's decree-law will help us to stop the attempt to bring devastating violence back into the stadiums. Above all, the new measure of the travel ban, which has already been used, will help to hit all the most dangerous and extremist fringes, in the constant search for the physical confrontation with the police forces, which however have seen significantly decrease the number of wounded in the last decade: from about 1,000 of the 2004-2005 season we have reached little more than 150 in the one just passed. Still strong is the aggressiveness towards the guardians of the order, who counted in their row 37 bruises at the end of the round of the current championship. It is clear that this type of violence feeds on a subculture that makes physical antagonism, hatred and prevarication precise identity reasons on which it is necessary to intervene, even with specific social campaigns and awareness. The Viminale Observatory does not fail to activate its own initiatives in this field, promoting interaction with societies, national and local authorities. The budget that we can draw up, six months after the entry into force of the legislation on stadiums, gives us a glimpse of the most appealing events (the "A" series) encouraging results. Comparing the data relating to the closing of the round of this championship with the previous one, the given meetings recorded a decrease of about 30 percent, while much more sensitive is the decrease of the wounded among the stewards, attested to less 71 percent. Also for the series A, comforting is also the decline of the bruises among the spectators, which highlights a bending of 65 percent. However, I would like to point out that the latter figure, the one relating to the injured among the spectators, regardless of the decrease that has occurred, is a figure of excellence throughout the panorama. Suffice it to say that countries at the forefront in the fight against violence in football, such as England and Germany, recorded last year several hundred wounded, absolutely incomparable to those of Italy, which counted 51. In confronting the phenomenon of football violence, which unfortunately still remains on levels supported in the lower series, we do not act only on the internal front. Given the global dimension of the phenomenon of football, international cooperation is also intense, particularly in Europe, thanks to the exchange of information with the collateral bodies of other continental police. I would now like to give some concluding consideration to the situation of the security of the capital, which obviously, representing the heart and the institutional center of the country, remains an indispensable national priority. The whole of Italy looked anxiously at the demonstrations in the square of opposite political sign that would engage Rome last weekend. I consider the peaceful development of these delicate appointments a great test of maturity of the Capital, which has served as a frame for you, patiently enduring the blindfolding of the streets of the center without falling or giving in to hysterism. The right to demonstrate, at the basis of all true democracy, that it must be able to give voice to everyone and protect in legality all forms of expression of free thought. Rome, however, deserves a serious reflection on the social sustainability of the enormous load of public events that wind along its streets over a year: an approximate summary indicates that, in the last two years, there have been about 2,000, in practice the average of three events per day. Although, fortunately, not all of them are challenging to the same extent for public order and security, there is no doubt that their daily stylicide ends with significantly compressing the mobility of Capital, creating inconveniences at every level, even for economic operators. The strategy that is being thought of, fully respectful of the constitutional right to demonstrate, is to intervene on the paths of the marches to avoid overloading the streets of the historic center and, in particular, the congested monumental areas. One cannot leave an unsolved problem that has been afflicting the Capital for too long and on which one had already tried to intervene with a special protocol. Above all, one cannot ask too much of the spirit of tolerance of the Romans, whom I felt the duty to thank for the composure manifested last weekend. Similarly, in that same circumstance, I expressed my satisfaction and gratitude to the police forces and their leaders for the excellent organisation of the prevention and control services that required the commitment of about 4,000 men. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]] By virtue of the exceptional mechanism put in place, it was possible to guard every sensitive objective and to defuse the outbreaks of violence that could have burst among adherents to opposing ideological movements. I am pleased that, at the end of these two days, full satisfaction was expressed also by the mayor of Rome, Ignazio Marino. In order to make Rome an even safer city - already one of the safest in Europe's capitals, according to the indices of crime - I have arranged the use of 500 soldiers, in addition to the quota already allocated. This is how we began to implement the anti-terrorism decree-law, which increased the competition mechanism of the Armed Forces, bringing it from 3,000 to 4,800 men. They are additional forces designed to monitor targets at risk of attack. And there is no doubt that Rome, for the reasons I have already mentioned, writes down the greatest number of them, also for the presence of the Holy See. However, we must not neglect, in a plan of overall security, that does not underestimate any factor of potential danger, diplomatic offices, educational institutions of the countries most exposed to the jihadist threat, places of worship and any other sensitive objective. Two days ago, I chaired in the prefecture of Rome the Provincial Committee for Public Order and Security, with the participation of the same mayor. On that occasion, account was taken of all areas of public security demand in order to recalibrate and refine the operational plan for activities and services. I am well aware that the issue of security, in its broadest sense, requires the participation of other institutional actors and the loyal and mutual collaboration, especially with the city authorities, also called upon to cooperate in the construction of that common good which is represented by urban security. A new measure in this matter, defined by the technicians of the Viminale, in collaboration with the representatives of the ANCI, was also politically shared with President Fassino and with the mayors of great cities of Italy just a few hours ago, during a summit precisely at the Viminale. The aim of the new measure is to strengthen not only the levels of real security, but also that perceived, felt in deficit by the citizen, instead of a real figure that shows, in the 2013-2014 comparison, a decrease of more than 7% of the general delittuousness. The measure is also responsible for recognizing the mayor's greater decision-making autonomy in addressing the aspects of subsidiary security, defining better the areas of their respective competence and the instruments of coordination and connection between the State and the Regions; it is also responsible for strengthening the regulatory apparatus of which the Forces of the Order and the judiciary will be able to dispose. The issue of security, especially that of our cities, will therefore continue to be at the heart of our commitment. Rome will be even safer, but the other cities of Italy, starting from Milan, interested in the imminent beginning of Expo, will also have to be. To all we will guarantee, in the same way and with the same intensity, tranquility and orderly civil coexistence. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u6	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of the Interior. He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u7	Madam President, Minister, first of all we would have expected your apology, because we asked for this hearing in the days immediately following those events and your absence is similar to that of a rabbit who runs away in the face of fear. I think you will also realize that talking about those facts today at least has a sense of mockery, because the time spent makes them absolutely outdated. And he will certainly not think of getting away with it by coming to this House to read a document, which they prepared for the Ministry, as if it were a typewriter who reads shorthand notes. Frankly, we would expect more from the Minister of the Interior. His attitude and behaviour confirm a widespread opinion, that you are an appearance within the Government, very comfortable compared to a President of the Council of Ministers who, with his personality, obviously does not need people around who think or take initiative. In this sense, unfortunately, there remains the bitterness to see that the security and management of the interior in our country are entrusted to a person of his or her standing, that is, a person who escapes before the Senate who asks for an information the next day. It is the height of those who are not confronted with the citizens, because - as you rightly pointed out - Rome is a city that bears the load and weight of several demonstrations every year, three a day statistically. Do you not remember, however, that, among these demonstrations, there are those of police officers and other police officers who no longer manage to meet their duty because they are abandoned by you? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Do you not remember this or are you afraid to face such situations? This is the reading. That is what the citizens see. Then, Minister, we can only remind you of your responsibilities, because we are in a country where the turnover of the Forces of Order has been blocked and where it is thought, instead, that the Government works at the closure of the garrisons of security and protection of the territory. Don't tell us we need the army on the ground. It would suffice for the law enforcement, police, police and all other security workers to have at least one minister defending them within the Council of Ministers, at least one minister defending them. So, here I'm wondering, who are you with? With the commissioner of Rome or the mayor of Rome, why else does he lose his job? There are two opaque figures in this affair, his and mayor Marino's. He, in fact, accuses the quaestor and you do not take a position in the moments immediately following those facts to defend the Forces of Order. Stay silent. This is what happened and his choice to let days pass to lighten the memory of those moments does not pay, because citizens feel insecurity every day; because when you open a newspaper or hear the news you realize that there are people who have to arm themselves in the house to defend themselves, that there are forces of order that no longer have the guarantee of being able to operate without passing themselves on the wrong side, because there is a government that does not defend them from criminals. We are in a country where, if a gas station defends another citizen who is robbed, he goes wrong and the government doesn't even defend him. That is what you must say instead of saying that you are working in the opposite direction. It's easy to say you have to give more power to the mayors. When the mayors were given more power with the security package - and you know very well what I'm talking about - you were part of that government, and the Interior Minister was Roberto Maroni. The next government you supported took away those powers from the mayors. And today a news agency informs us that you have stated that it is important to give power back to the mayors. Well, Minister, I recalled yesterday in this House the banal circumstance of a mayor who was obliged to receive the oath of a foreign national, who had received Italian citizenship from the President of the Republic, but did not even know how to read Italian. In front of this, do you know what the prefect of Varese did? The mayor had made a very simple argument, wondering how that act could be completed, when the documents were even missing. The prefect gave him citizenship anyway! What's the moral? That mayor doesn't matter! And you tell us here today that we need to give more power to the mayors? But if the mayors have abandoned them in the administration of the municipalities! The mayors, who are the last protection of the state over the citizens. Minister, let us tell you what we need to do instead. Add and complete the staff of the superintendents and go also to get those 17,000 inspectors who are missing, because it is an unacceptable deficiency that the Forces of Order are suffering. Finally, set up a course that forms our forces of order to counter-terrorism, because in this case it is not necessary to employ the army, but only to give reasons to those on the ground who are dedicated to the protection of the order. These are the things to do. Don't just think about doing new competitions to delude people with the hope of a job. Scroll through the rankings, draw on those that already exist and give immediate certainty to citizens that there may be new police, police or other security forces. Madam President, we are not at all satisfied with what the Minister has told us today, because it is simply the result of a rough reading of any document. And we do not need to go to 1997, Minister, to find newspaper notes that, like the most useless and empty quotes, support a speech that does not have it. There is no need to go and say that there is a risk of diplomatic crises if four criminals are picked up and put in jail. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Candiani. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We have to enforce the laws. If foreigners come to this country, anywhere in the world, who do not comply with our laws, they must go to jail. And the citizens must be sure that the Ministry of the Interior has a person who enforces the security regulations, not a person who is simply complacent to the President of the Council of Ministers and who is also afraid to confront Mayor Marino, because we know very well that you are both tied to the same leash. This is the thing to be ashamed of. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u8	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u9	Madam President, Minister, the horrible spectacle staged not only on the day of the game, but also the previous one and the previous one (on Tuesday) by the Dutch ultras of the Feyenoord is still vivid. Seeing the heart of our city devastated by a pack of invaded, without anyone opposing any limit to that ruin, has aroused feelings of offense, indignation, anger. Looking at the fountain of the Barcaccia, just returned to the city after a long and delicate restoration, transformed into sewer, in cloaca, was really sad. It has been said that barbarians have arrived, common criminals. The press said they had been reported and that, since the previous evening, they had been able to make their comfortable for long hours; and the police, while seeing that they were agitated and violent, did not intervene adequately, except at the end. What about the day before? In front of that opening phalanx in Campo de' Fiori, what interventions have been made? The controversy began immediately, the arguments with the hindsight, the references of responsibility between the prefect, the quaestor and of course you, Minister. In general, the Dutch Government clearly refused to compensate for the damage, while many Italian companies, institutions and banks offered their willingness to pay the costs of the restoration of the fountain. We have also heard your voice clearly, Minister, on Rainews24's microphones and still today, when you spoke of three objectives: to make this beautiful city even more secure by proposing the DASPO model also at European level and working on a law against urban degradation. Even safer. It is clear to everyone that the problem of security, not only in Rome, has been bullied at all levels. Are you kidding me? You knew where they came from (at least most of them), who they were and their pedigree; it had been reported to you, it was written in the newspapers. Mr. Minister, to hear your statements, gradually, those feelings of indignation and anger have replaced a feeling of great disbelief. Many of us have in fact come to mind the images of police clashes with the workers of the Terni steel works, who peacefully protested in defense of their workplace and who, for this reason, were brutally loaded by the forces of order, for the fear of a march - it was also said by you - in the direction of the Termini station, a sensitive objective. Well, really? Unless you, like the great Genoese navigator, did not think that the workers wanted to buscar to the east por el poniente: because in the direction they had taken, only by going around the world would they arrive at Termini station. Mr. Minister, you obviously don't know this wonderful city. I'm basing myself on public security footage, so you've been resoundingly disproved. Perhaps one must reason and reason, give direction and direction. We're not making a speech against the law enforcement, the ones who then manage direct contact. But the directions, the directives, those have made water everywhere. Strange italic paradox: on the one hand, armed and powerful intervention for a presumption of intention; on the other, inertia in the face of acts of true vandalism. The workers of the AST do not have a history of violence, but of hard and excellent work, and complex negotiations. So, by comparing these two horrors of our recent news, I really wonder where this government and its behavior stand. I can see, once again, that it is proceeding on sight, without any criteria. As usual, we deal with delicate issues in broken form, without any reflection, without solving real emergencies. Nothing has changed since the days in the Senate were discussing the decree-law stadiums. So, in order to stop the violence, you thought of measures such as charging the costs of the Forces of Order to sports clubs, presumably increasing the price of the ticket. Today, as then, I hear about imposing on UEFA and the clubs the obligation to set up a fund to compensate for the victims or the cities affected by the violence of thugs nesting among the fans. As always, honest and peaceful will pay, while violent subjects will not be affected. The DASPO you give to the beggars to make sure Rome. You really gave birth to a mouse, just at that meeting that you Minister mentioned to justify your absence from this Chamber in which you had been summoned; a meeting that was not held 8,000 kilometers from the seat of the Senate, but at 800 meters; that day could surely come here and perhaps propose these ideas, so there would have been a comparison also with the measures that must be taken. The problem first of all is not within the stadiums, but around the cities and, in this case, the city of Rome, because there has manifested that violence, since the days before, in total inertia. We of Left Ecology and Freedom of the Mixed Group contest the lightness and the absence of a reflection on a topic such as violence and security. What needs to be reiterated is the principle of responsibility for individual actions. That is why I appreciated the Codacons, which was a civil party representing the citizens in the process for the devastation of Rome, asking for the damages to each individual who will be verified the crimes contested. But this digression does not change our perplexity with regard to your mandate, Minister. According to the question put in Parliament by the MP of the Democratic Party Marco Miccoli, in the Dutch fan company had already been reported, to the competent authority, some of the criminals and some of them had no connection with the organization of the Feyenoord. Presumably, Minister, there may have been grounds for more effective and efficient security measures. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish your speech, please. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Those measures which, in a clear way, have not been taken, because they have been allowed to flow. Do you sleep in those hours? What do you expect, to spend the night and take a deep breath of relief? We cannot avoid noting, however, the diligence with which you, Minister, are concerned about public order when you rush to cancel the transcripts, by disobedient mayors, of homosexual marriages contracted abroad. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish your speech, Senator Cervellini. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Nor can we forget the Shalabayeva case: the surrender of two innocents, a mother with her child, to a country where human rights violations occur. Finally, another very black page was written in Rotterdam, not only for Giallorossi fans, but for all Italian citizens. In the face of an irreproachable behavior of the Italian fans, there have been some very embarrassing episodes, stigmatized by all, involving mirrored citizens, whose balance and behaviour we know. So, where were the Viminale officials, who accompanied the fans to ensure security? What did they do when whole buses were brought... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u10	Senator, you've already exceeded your time by two minutes. If you wish, you can deliver the text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u11	Senator Schifani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u12	Madam President, Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for your presence, and I would like to begin with a consideration, in the light of the speeches made by the previous speakers. You don't need any defenses, either of your own accord or of your own accord. AIROLA (M5S). He just needs to go home! Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) A Minister of the Interior, who in less than two years has been present in Parliament in total eight times (six times in the Chamber and two in the Senate) for information on very delicate and sensitive elements and data, and 28 times for question time in the Chamber and twice in the Senate, speaks with the numbers; with the numbers of his presence, with the numbers of his respect for Parliament and the Commissions at which he was, Minister, for cognitive investigations (whose numbers I omit because they are remarkable). I am saying this because the affair in question has been over-exploited by colleagues in the League, whose virulence, whose will for controversy and political aggression these days seem to me to be inversely proportional to the number of representatives who today denote it in this House. A reversal of trends between controversy and representation. [[Applause from Senators Puppato and Fattorini]] I'd like to remind my colleagues of an episode. On August 31, 2008, Naples was shocked by the violence of hundreds of alleged - I emphasize presumed - Neapolitan fans, who assaulted the central station of Naples, took possession of an Intercity train headed for Rome, and sent passengers down to reach the Capital and attend the first championship of series in Rome-Naples. The budget was very heavy: two devastated stations, colleagues of the League, a train practically destroyed, four injured railwaymen, of which a train leader in a serious way, estimated damage to half a million euros. It all took place on August 31st. Well, Minister, I cannot imagine that the League, which expressed Minister Maroni at the time, could argue with its Minister. However, I would like to remind him that their Minister has come to report to Parliament 10-11 days after that event, given that you are going to respect it since you are referring to the Senate 13 days after the Spanish plaza event. These are numbers that give the sense of the politicization of this affair, which could be handled by so many colleagues in a different way. My colleagues in the League should have otherwise remembered that she, Minister, has unlocked the turnover by increasing it to 55% compared to Minister Maroni; the salary and salary ceiling, which had been blocked by Minister Maroni; 700 million more in the security sector this year. These are elements that give the sense, the pulse of a government, within which Minister Alfano is fighting for the protection of those agents who 12-13 days ago, in the Spanish square, have avoided, with the technique of containment, that could cause damage to people and things, in an event managed in a very professional way, but that had to shelter the safety not only of tourists and citizens, but also of commercial exercises. This has happened with great professionalism, and I would like to thank all the agents of public security, who daily, with their commitment and their self-denial, risk their lives with wages that our State, unfortunately, cannot guarantee at very high levels for the state of crisis in which we live, but that they daily honour our history and the safety of our children and of all Italian citizens. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Di Biagio]] The system has governed and at the same time we, as Parliament and as Government, with the approval, on 16 October last year, of a very important decree-law that has sanctioned the introduction not only of the DASPO, but also of severe penalties, which provide for the prohibition of access to stadiums for at least three years for those responsible for group violence, up to nine years in prison for those who offer or promise money or other goods to alter the result of a sports competition, the prohibition of travel for one or two championships following serious episodes of violence. He will also be arrested in delayed, non-immediate flagency, who sings choirs and raises racist banners. The same companies are required to pay a share of 1% to 3% of the revenue from the sporting event to finance the costs of security and public order, especially to cope with overtime and compensation due to the law enforcement authorities. These measures are self-explanatory and give the sense of control, by this Government and its Ministry, of the protection of citizens and fans themselves, who have the right and duty to go to the stadium with their children to attend a competition of players. Madam President, I would like to appeal to all political forces not to divide themselves on the security of the country when our country and the international community are experiencing a period of great tension for international terrorism. Italy was great when united, through the unity and solidarity of the political forces, it fought the Red Brigades and defeated them, and it was united in this House, of which I have the honour to be a member for many years, when it approved very important anti-mafia laws, which allowed the kidnapping of mafias, and the strengthening of 41- bis, being Minister of Justice Angelino Alfano, with the Berlusconi Government. It must continue to be united at this time and not have access to unnecessary partisan exploitations, when we must all ensure that the solidarity of a country is measured in a united state, that it can interpret the concerns of the citizens. Colleagues of the League, colleagues who will speak after me, when the message is launched to the country of the insecurity of the State, of a lightness, from the State and the Police, in the defense of the safety of the citizens, is given a signal of weakness abroad and this is a danger that can determine appetites that we must avoid. We must avoid appearing abroad as a weak and attackable country. We are not, we are not, we cannot be, and we must make sure that we do not appear! [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u13	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u14	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank Minister Alfano, who has deigned to come and talk to us, poor senators, who are hanging on his lips to know what the truth is of what has happened. It is also very interesting to hear Senator Schifani say that the Minister has come eleven times to report to the Senate: well, if he had resigned to the third, perhaps we would have solved some problems and that too, perhaps, is to be borne in mind! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We heard that Minister Maroni once came after 11 days: perhaps we should remember that these two people were in the same coalition! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We might also think, since we are dealing with events in Rome, that perhaps Emperor Nero, when the games were in the Colosseum, will have gone 43 times to report to the Senate and never resigned. Here, it could be a parallelism between the current Minister and what happened 2,000 years ago! However, we must reiterate that something very serious has happened in Rome on 20 February. No? It is very serious what happened: we left the city in the hands of thugs, we let see a state that had not organized itself or an absent state. We saw the center of the capital stormed by groups of thugs of a football team. We had some warnings, because the same thing had happened the night before in Campo de' Fiori: do we want to remember that the traders had to barricade in the clubs? Maybe we'd have a feeling something might have happened? And it happened the next day. The Minister said that the concentration was planned at Villa Borghese: a nice place to make a concentration of fans, Villa Borghese. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Congratulations on your intuition because you're always very good at these brilliant insights. But why did 200 criminals, already reported by the Dutch police, wander about Rome undisturbed? Yet, as we have already said, what happened in Piazza Campo de' Fiori had happened before; only after the fans went to Piazza di Spagna and caused serious damage to the Bernini fountain. Then there was the shameful ballet between the mayor of Rome, the quaestor and the Ministry: you were wrong, no, not me, you were wrong. It's always someone else's fault: it's the classic game you always play. What about the agents who were, as always, exposed on the front line? We are wrong to give orders, we are wrong in the planning of these interventions and in the end citizens always forgive us. This ballet is embarrassing. How do we feel about us outside? In everything that's happened, we've made a huge fool of ourselves, as a country. This is the capital of the country, we must be able to give a real impression, to show if this country is really able to do a number of things. But the Minister, on the other hand, has already accustomed us to such things (as has been recalled), when, without his knowledge, a child and a mother were kidnapped and were sent back to a country where there was a problem of safety for these people. All the time unbeknownst to the Minister. There was another one who also did something without his knowledge, perhaps of the Minister's own party. Sometimes you have to remember history, because it's easy to forget what happens. I think his name was Scajola, but I'm going by heart. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I still remember what happened in Tor di Quinto, where Neapolitan fans were brought together, and what happens with migratory flows in the Sicily Canal, where a few people die. [[Comments of Senator Cuomo]] Who knows if the Ministry of the Interior has any problems? Perhaps we should check what happens. For all these reasons, we have asked Minister Alfano many times to go home, but obviously he does not feel the need for it, because perhaps he must continue to make the crutch to this Government. But we should also think about what football has become. We wonder if all this does not fall within a broader design, in which the social discomfort, which today is so tearing, is deliberately allowed to vent just outside the stadiums. These events serve you as the vent of a pressure cooker: that people kill themselves as well, bad it hurts some officers in the service, underpaid to take the bats in your place. All this is good for you; it is good for you at national level, but it is also good for you at European level, so that social hardship can be channelled where it is easy to predict and where it is restricted. Until a 17th century fountain is ravaged. At that point, everyone spills rivers of useless words and gets indignant. If, however, it happens that every Sunday someone among the fans and the police gets hurt, this is no longer news. If, on the other hand, anger is no longer confined to stadiums, what happens? How is the protocol different, if instead of the fans are Italian citizens who manifest for their own ideas? We can't help but compare with the treatment that the police have been giving to protesters No TAV for years. Did we use the same measure of comparison, the same method of action? We are talking about Italian citizens who express their thoughts on a work deemed useless and which should be protected by Article 21 of the Constitution. In those manifestations we see armored, hydrating, massive use of tear gas, abundant use of the baton and charges. For No TAVs trains are blocked, stations are armored, access to public bathrooms is also limited. The last time there was such a demonstration in Rome the protesters were closed in Piazza Campo de' Fiori, without any way out. Why is such a rigid protocol to the No TAVs, students or workers when they manifest their ideas, and instead let them roam vandals for Rome with absolute lightness, endangering the safety of the people? Minister Alfano, we really wonder what you're waiting for to resign (as long as you never will and you're not even listening, but maybe someone else will tell you). We were hoping that everything listed earlier would be enough for you to make this decision. Evidently, making the crutch to the Renzi government is more important than the security of the citizens. This is of interest to you: to make a crutch to a government that is unable to do anything, except to continue always to launch tweets and to speak, to speak, to speak, but does not act and never does anything in the interests of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u15	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u16	Madam President, senators, senators, on behalf of Forza Italia, I express sympathy and solidarity to the Roman citizens who have the privilege of living in the most beautiful city in the world, but who pay very high taxes, who enjoy bad services (see health, holes, public transport, etc.) and who too often see their lives conditioned by problems of public order. I express gratitude to the Carabinieri, the Police, the Finance Guard, the urban police, all the representatives of the Forces of the Order who, in the vast majority of cases, are working best for the citizens. I think it is necessary to thank the superintendence that, immediately, returned, in its splendor, the Barcaccia del Bernini to Rome, Italy, to the world. Minister, I know you as a polite person and therefore I was bitterly surprised to see the images of your press conference the day before yesterday, after a meeting that you organized, in which you laughed at the senators who complained about your absence, saying that they did not have the gift of ubiquity. It wasn't funny. It was institutionally incorrect. His report has been retiring and superficial. She does not take sufficient account of the fact that for Rome and Italy one of the worst days of 2014 was that of May 3 when, in the afternoon, Ciro Esposito was injured, who died after a long agony, and I think we should not forget the extraordinary example that gave the behavior of the mother. That same evening, millions of people in Italy and around the world found that the final of the Italian Cup, attended by the President of the Senate and the President of the Council, began with more than an hour late, saw the negotiations that were there with a part of the organized fans and found that the match was played by courtesy of Jenny A' Carogna. It is unacceptable that after so many years too often we must note that thugs and thugs, who disguise themselves as fans, and that they are almost all known to the Forces of Order and football clubs, continue to create serious problems outside and inside the stadiums. You didn't tell us that the Public Security Service Department, a few days before February 19, 2015, had informed prefecture and police that contacts with the Dutch Police made Feyenoord fans feel not particularly dangerous. It would be interesting to know who has prepared this information so far from reality and that it is at the root of the problems, even very serious, that have occurred. Rome and Italy are exposed to serious problems of public order and the international situation legitimate serious concerns. I hope, Minister, that at yesterday's meeting on security issues in Rome, you explained to Mayor Marino that it is irresponsible what you did in the very first afternoon of 19 February. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] : Proclaims against the Forces of Order while the same were facing criminals unleashed in the center and a few hours before the dispute of the game, among other things, providing the public with a picture of the situation different from reality. I hope you have explained to him that, when there are emergencies in progress, we are facing them with determination and with a common front. When they are overcome, they can be discussed. At the technical table at the Security Services Headquarters it is essential that the Mayor himself participates directly or sends a political representative. The presence of an ATAC official and an ATAC official, as happened in the meeting that preceded the match with Feyenoord, is not enough. The mayor must find a way to enforce the ban on alcohol sales. On the 18th, in prime time, in Campo de' Fiori, they raged violent and drunken Dutch, perhaps the same people who did what we know the next day. For many years Villa Borghese has been chosen to gather the fans of the host team to lead them to the stadium. It is a rational choice, but it is absolutely necessary to prevent exascited access to Trinità dei Monti, piazza di Spagna and piazza del Popolo, whose access routes can be guarded without excessive difficulties. Many other parts of the world, including certainly our country, are destined to face security problems, even dramatic ones. All those who have responsibilities - and you are institutionally in the front row, Minister - must work with experience of the mistakes that have been made and Parliament has a duty, on the issue of security, to cooperate with unity and seriousness of intent. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u17	Senator Ranucci is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u18	Madam President, I would like to thank Minister Alfano for his very broad speech, which has touched on issues that are certainly shared, such as greater security for the city of Rome, although I will note in my speech some critical issues. First of all, we would like to say to you, Minister, that we have nothing to do with the tones that have been used against you in this House, from which we distance ourselves and which we regard as absolutely unfair to you. What happened in Rome on the evening of 18 February 2015 in Campo de' Fiori and the afternoon of the next day in Piazza di Spagna is absolutely shameful, as you yourself mentioned. The behavior of Dutch fans in the capital before the Roma-Feyenoord match is inconceivable: hooligans have turned a football event into an urban guerrilla. At least a thousand drunken fans on the evening of February 18 besieged for hours the streets of the center, focusing at the end in Piazza Campo de' Fiori, where they unleashed by throwing glass bottles against passers-by. The next day, on February 19, a real invasion of the Feyenoord hooligan did not spare even the most famous monuments Rome, such as the Barcaccia. The Spanish piazza fountain was literally stormed by fans, who surrounded the marble basin, recently restored, lighting colorful smoke gas and transforming the famous monument into a container of cans and bottles of beer. A further element, which suggests a premeditation and a direction of the events, is evidenced by the appearance of a shock sticker on the walls of the center of Rome and on the shirts of some fans of the Feyenoord, with the initials of the Dutch team and the image of the Capitoline wolf beheaded. The balance of the clashes is 28 Dutch arrested, 5 bruised fans and 13 wounded among the Forces of Order. And it is precisely to the Forces of Order, that they have been committed to countering the barbaric horde of the ultras of Feyenoord who have scarred our city, and for the precious work they carry out daily for our security, which goes my personal thanks and the full solidarity and closeness also on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the PD Group, FI-PdL XVII and AP Group (NCD-UDC)]] Minister, I have been a sports manager in football and I have been very often close to the Forces of Order and reading among those who strive for security the anger of having to risk their physical integrity for a football match. There are probably social problems that the law enforcement agencies take on and they shouldn't. Such violence must be condemned in unison and cannot be punished only by arrests: in fact, we must also call into question the sports society of Feyenoord, UEFA and the Dutch State, which must assume responsibility for having brought to Italy 200 fans already reported to the Dutch authorities for serious common crimes outside the sports field. Why, for example, was it not required to sign those fans in Rotterdam? In this regard, as an example, we would like to recall the action of the British authorities to stem the hooligan phenomenon, which is rooted in Britain itself. In 1985 England was shocked by the tragic consequences of the behavior of its fans in the country and abroad. The iron lady, then Premier of the country, Margaret Thatcher, in response to the constant unrest withdrew all the teams of her country from international competitions. Violence must have no place inside or outside the stadium. What happened in Rome is shameful and intolerable. The capital and its citizens cannot become hostage to thugs who come to Rome on the pretext of following their own team of hearts and who instead suffer violence and unrest. President Carraro, you said the right thing: thugs are also known by clubs. Well, we also ask football to play its part, because everything doesn't always have to be delegated to others. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] Football takes its responsibilities! Without prejudice, therefore, that it is quite clear that the responsibility for the events that took place in Rome lies with these fringes of barbarians who have nothing to do with sport, a reflection must definitely be done. We would not have wanted to be faced with the alternative, Minister, between the dead on the one hand and the destruction of monuments on the other. This alternative is unacceptable. My consideration does not want to look for scapegoats or broaden the controversy already underway, but it wants to turn the spotlight on the issue of the prevention and public safety of the city, to which the Forces of Order and the Municipalities must contribute, not in contrast. Security and public order are a national priority and as such security must be further enhanced through a law specifically addressing the issue of combating urban degradation and the right to safe living. I have read in these hours, Minister, that you have a hypothesis, that you entrust greater powers of police to the prefects and quaestors in the matter of urban decorum: this goes in the right direction. I think it's important to our society. I will conclude with two thoughts. First, UEFA must assume the responsibility of intervening by giving a strong signal of intolerance, starting a policy of rigour for these facts, as it did, for example, after the tragic night of Heysel, just before the start of the final of the Champion Cup between Juventus and Liverpool at the Heysel Stadium, where 39 people died, when it decided to exclude the British teams indefinitely from the European cups. I believe that these are interventions that UEFA must begin to think even for less serious facts or that concern the incivility and barbarity of its fans. One final consideration. As my colleague Cervellini said earlier, the Roma fans in Rotterdam have been treated in ways that we might call hastily. Nothing happened because of the civil behavior of the Roma fans and, luckily, the sport and the football played prevailed and the field gave its right sentence. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u19	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister of the Interior, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u20	The next item is questions and questions. Question 3-01629 on the European regulation on clam fishing will be taken first. The representative of the Government may answer this question. [[Brusio.]] Senators who do not wish to stay and follow questions are kindly asked to leave.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as the questioners correctly put it, the minimum size for clam fishing, equal to 25 mm, is laid down in Community Regulation No 1967 of 2006. I would point out that already in 2010, following the request made unanimously by the bivalve molluscs management consortia, the Ministry proposed to the European Commission to introduce a certain tolerance to the minimum size; this request was unfortunately rejected on the basis of an alleged lack of data on the biological status of the resource. It should be borne in mind that the documentation submitted following the rejection of our proposal was examined by the European Commission's Technical and Scientific Committee (STECF) at its plenary meeting in April 2010. I would like to point out that, on the basis of the Committee's opinion, the European Commission's Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries sent a note stating that the current regulation on minimum clam size (i.e. Annex III to Regulation No 1967 of 2006) was fully in line with the need to ensure sustainable fishing, suggesting, therefore, the use of a 23-millimeter sieve for the capture of the clam resource, on which to allow a tolerance in the size between 1% and 5%. These arguments have been the subject of a thorough critical analysis by the Ministry's offices, which have reserved the right to refer the matter again to the competent European bodies, through the request of special derogations for hydraulic dredging in the current management plans. Consequently, recalling the conclusions of the said Scientific Technical Committee, the Ministry asked the competent European offices to be able to respect the minimum size, with the percentage of tolerance, but using the system of the "number per kilogram" rather than the system of screening with holes of 23 millimeters, as on the other hand already provided for by the national legislation from 1968. In particular, it was reiterated that the above system of "number per kilogram' would in any case have allowed the required minimum size to be respected as far as possible. With this system, in fact, if there had been specimens of lower size in the catch, these would have been compensated by the presence of others of greater size, so as to fall still within the permitted margin of tolerance. In this context, it was also pointed out that the conclusions of the Scientific Committee in question did not take into account either the fact that for the massive species (halics and sardines) it was already possible to replace the number per kilogram to the minimum size, even less that the imposition of the screening with holes of 23 mm, would have had negative consequences in terms of dredged area, fishing times and environmental changes. We have also noted that mechanized control cannot give absolute safety about the absence of undersized specimens, with the risk, for the operators, of being sanctioned without fault. Having said that, I repeat that in order to protect and guarantee the relevant national sector, we have broadly supported, and will continue to do so, the above arguments in all the relevant European fora, relying on a different and positive assessment of the issue. In particular, the Italian initiative during the Presidency of the Council of the European Union was intended to identify a solution to the problem under consideration in the context of the forthcoming adoption of the Common Fisheries Policy. In this latter respect, I would point out that the draft of the Omnibus Regulation has been drawn up to bring the European Regulations into line with the landing obligation and the management of the submeasure. Moreover, in the context of the Council of Ministers for Fisheries and Agriculture of the European Union, the Italian delegation recently addressed this issue at a bilateral meeting with the European Commissioner for the Environment and Maritime Affairs. In any case, I would like to stress that a possible regulatory initiative aimed at resolving the problem in question, through a codecision procedure, would necessarily take longer and uncertain periods. Finally, I would like to point out that since July last year, a technical table has been in place with representatives of the sector to identify the tools to develop the research and efficiency of the sector. Having said that, I repeat that in order to protect and guarantee the relevant national sector, we have broadly supported, and will continue to do so, the above arguments in all the relevant European fora, relying on a different and positive assessment of the issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u24	FACTORS (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank you very much... Excuse me, Senator, but you have to get up, as you know. Thank you. FACTORS (M5S). I didn't know. In thanking the Deputy Minister, I have to acknowledge that, together with the Minister and all those involved in the Ministry, they are the only ones who respond very quickly to our questions and that is already a good thing. I have decided to put this question because the clam-fishermen's sector, which with this legislation is really in the brink, has instructed us to bring you its cry of sorrow. We are about to open the clam fishing in the Adriatic Sea, but unfortunately many operators will even give up their work, due to the inadequacy of European standards in relation to their situation. I therefore welcome the fact that the Minister wants to commit himself in Europe to amend or otherwise correct this legislation, but I would like him to do so very quickly, because the sector is in crisis, also because of the competition of the countries of North Africa, which do not have the same problems in the fishing of our fishermen in the Adriatic. I would like to call for the opening of a real research project, including with European funding, which in this area, as I indicated in the question, are entirely legitimate in the European 2020 strategy. I would therefore like the Ministry to move in this respect as well. Then there is the issue of criminal sanctions for the fishing of clams under cut. I know that an amendment has been tabled to the related agriculture: I urge the Minister, first of all, to transform criminal sanctions (because clam fishing of 20, 22 or 23 millimeters, in a country in which you really go to jail for very little, it seems to me a "therapeutic" aggression against those who instead work); in particular, I invite him then to reduce administrative sanctions, which are found precisely in the related agriculture, to the actual performance of the fishing workers, who, as we know, are in great difficulty; I would then like this related agriculture to end its process, in order to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u25	The questions are followed by abbreviated proceedings, pursuant to Rule 156-a of the Rules of Procedure, 2-00217 and 2-00241 on the operation of the Commission for International Adoptions. I call Senator Giovanardi to illustrate these questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u26	Madam President, nothing personal with the representative of the Government, who has had the unpleasing task of answering, I do not know what, honestly (and I would not like to be in his shoes), since we are in a situation of blatant and dramatic violation of every rule of law and regulation, which concerns the non-functioning, I say, of the Commission for International Adoptions. The member of the government will know that a law is in force - which I would like to remind colleagues, since for four years I have done the job of President of the Commission for International Adoptions - which provides for it to be presided over by a President, who represents it and is the President of the Council of Ministers or the Minister of Policies for the Family. It's the political organ. The President of the Council of Ministers can then delegate, as in my case, the Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council to chair the Commission. The law and regulations also provide for a vice president, appointed by decree of the President of the Council, who must be a magistrate with experience in the child sector. In my day, she was Dr. Daniela Bacchetta, a juvenile magistrate, currently engaged in the Ministry of Justice. There is also a committee, of which the law governs the composition: three representatives of the Presidency of the Council, representatives of the ministries and of the Forum of Family Associations. For example, when I was chairing the Commission, there were Caterina Chinnici, now MEP, and Graziana Campanato, who is President of the Court of Appeal. The Committee is the body to decide on the decisions taken by the Commission on international adoptions or to ratify those taken by the President in urgent cases. On 13 February last year, our former colleague, Senator Della Monica, was appointed President of the Commission. We are not already here because, as neither President of the Council nor Minister for the Family, the political body cannot be a third person at all. Then who was appointed Vice-President of the Commission? Senator Della Monica and, in fact, there are formal documents signed on September 29 by vice-president Silvia Della Monica, signed on October 25 by the president, in this case, Silvia Della Monica. In February - about 12 months have passed - the Commission, which is a deliberating body, has been convened how many times? Once in June last year and then none of the members of the Commission had the pleasure of attending a meeting because the Commission was never convened and never resolved anything. In this year, with the signature of the president or vice president, very important decisions were taken concerning the bodies, revocations of mandates, acceptances or rejections of requests they had made. There has been an international incident in Congo, which still today sees our embassy engaged in relation to children taken at night in an orphanage and it is not clear how the Commission has given the mandate to take them, with a whole series of consequences on international relations. Added to this is an accident with Belarus compared to a situation of families who interface with that reality. There has been a desperate attempt by some associations to get in touch with this Commission which has become a ghost and where no one answers because the bodies that should be chaired by law have been organized in this totally illegitimate way. Everything that has been done in recent months is out of the law because all decisions taken are neither deliberate nor ratified by any body competent by law to do so. We've been reporting this anomaly for months. I am not going into the matter, because if I were to do so I should point out that from 4,200 adoptions per year in 2011 we have collapsed to less than half. In Burkina Faso there was a gathering activity of all the countries of that part of Africa. In Cambodia we had taken another initiative and in Russia I went to sign the first agreement with Russia for adoptions. There's been a collapse. It could also be recognised in the Commission as a place to discuss whether quality has been given priority over quantity, but this place which the law provides is the place where a decision is to be taken has never been convened. I wonder and ask Parliament and the Government how the Commission can cover a state of total illegality such as that which, with silence so far, continues to cover up international adoptions, children, bodies, international relations, the principle of legality and, if you like, I also add a sense of ridicule. The acts are, in fact, signed by the same person sometimes as president and at other times as vice president. In both cases there are no competences, because he is not a member of the Government and, therefore, he cannot take political action and he is not a juvenile magistrate and, therefore, he cannot even play the role of vice president. The Commission, which consists of about 20 people, has never been convened, except once for presentations in June and then no one has had a summons. I wonder how we can move forward in this situation. I ask the Government to simply restore legality, to ensure that the Commission for International Adoptions becomes again a body that functions as the law in force today in our country requires it to function.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u27	The representative of the Government has the right to respond jointly to the questions that have just been raised.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u28	Madam President, I would like to thank Senator Giovanardi who has kindly reminded us of our task, but I believe that the subject is of great importance and that he invests the whole Government and I am happy to respond to these questions, because he is deserving of attention from the whole Government. The Government, in responding to these questions, presented by Senators Sacconi and Giovanardi and others, intends first of all to reassure the questioners of the absolute legitimacy of the operation of the Commission for international adoptions. Indeed, he thanked the interrogators for offering a valuable opportunity to the Government to make clarity with respect to a whole series of incorrect news and statements, conveyed in several locations, even authoritative (such as the parliamentary one), in an instrumental manner and with the exclusive objective of delegitiming the policy of the Government in the matter of international adoptions, with serious damage to the aspiring adoptive parents and with serious prejudice to the rights of children, the protection of whose interest should be the only and exclusive polar star of any intervention on this ground. The President-in-Office of the Council, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, considered that the political responsibility of international adoptions should be held directly on his own, giving this issue a particular importance, through which the Government intends to qualify its action. In this very line, therefore, and always in close respect to the legislation, is the further choice of the President of the Council to delegate its functions to the vice president, councilwoman Silvia Della Monica, competent magistrate, authoritative and of multi-faceted experience, who in the previous legislature held the office of senator of the Republic. The Commission expresses its action through both collegial and monocratic decisions. It works mainly through the president, who represents it in national and international fora, and the vice president, who has specific tasks assigned by the regulation. In this regard, it should therefore be stressed that, precisely in strict compliance with the rules, certain acts must be signed as President, where they represent the exercise of delegated functions (e.g. the signing of bilateral agreements), others must be signed as Vice President, where these are acts proper to the Vice President (e.g. the authorisations for the entry of adopted minors). [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] On the other hand, it would be improper and unlawful to behave differently and not to take account of the different functions exercised. As a rule, the Commission shall be convened by the President, who shall draw up the agenda. The frequency at which it is convened or not must meet the actual needs of taking collegial decisions, rather than honouring a so-called practice which, although repeated over time, does not in itself represent legitimate compliance with the rules. The Government then ensures that experts appointed by the President of the Council meet all the requirements laid down and required by the norm, due to the complex and multiple tasks assigned to the Commission. At international level, the Commission's work is highly appreciated and there is no shortage of explicit expressions of satisfaction and appreciation and concrete feedback from exchanges on international adoptions. The choice of the President of the Council to hold on to himself the competence of international adoptions, entrusting his duties to Vice President Silvia Della Monica, was indeed welcomed at international level, confirming the will of the President of the Council to attach particular importance to the protection of the human rights of children in relations with foreign countries. In the context of international relations, we have worked intensively this year, with very important results. The Commission has invited and received many delegations for important working sessions, in particular those of the following countries: Republic of Burundi, Kingdom of Cambodia, Republic of Belarus, People's Republic of China, Republic of Mongolia. Important bilateral agreements (with the Republic of Burundi, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Russian Federation and Belarus) were signed or renewed with some of these countries during their visit. Relations have been restarted, bilateral agreements proposed with invitation to delegations and, in some cases, negotiations are already under way for the formalisation of an agreement with many other countries. Of particular importance is the relationship established with Belarus, starting in October 2014, with an agreement reached directly by the President of the Commission with the Belarusian ambassador, which allowed to reopen the adoptions in Belarus for the future, through the preparation of a new list of minors that Italian families ask to adopt. Important junction of the agreement reached in October 2014 is represented by the establishment of an Italian-Belarusian mixed working group of an extremely qualified level. The strengthened relations have finally allowed the resolution of some critical cases of understanding between the two countries, while the news reported in the questioning of an unbearable situation that came to be created with the Belarusian authorities, following an alleged failure to send a document, is without foundation. Excellent relations have been established with the Russian Federation and this has allowed to avoid the blocking of adoptions by the Russian Federation after the murder in Pescara of a Russian child adopted by an Italian family (case Maravalle), and to clarify the application modalities of the bilateral agreement concluded in 2008 for some provisions contained therein in contrast to our legislation. With regard to the Democratic Republic of Congo, the government reassures the senators that there has been no action contrary to local law; it confirms the excellent relations with local authorities in pursuing the protection of children's rights, boasting the seriousness of the Commission's actions ensuring, as is due in some cases, the necessary institutional confidentiality. The Government, therefore, expresses concern, for the daily dissemination of partial news and not corresponding to the truth, which aims to alarm families who are experiencing a difficult situation and which tends to undermine relations between Italy and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, with obvious possible negative repercussions on the adoptive procedures of Italian couples and the future of their children, in order to delegitimize and weaken in the eyes of public opinion the government action expressed by the Commission. With reference to Dr. Patrizia Coggi, former director of the Adoption Service, it is stated that, contrary to what we read in the questioning, it does not appear to have been involved in the inquiry Mafia capitale and has not resigned, but quite simply retired from 1 February for reaching age limits and, regarding the reported, is proceeding to exercise the actions necessary to protect its good repute and image in its own premises. It does not correspond to the truth that there are blockages to the issue of authorisations or attestations. It is true, instead, that at a punctual reconnaissance it has emerged that, unfortunately, the instructors of the requests to operate in the foreign countries presented by the agencies were stopped since 2012. It was therefore two years since permissions were given and instructed. It was therefore necessary to place order in this area, extending the time limits for the investigation of such requests, otherwise already largely expired, and therefore, necessarily, extending the deadlines for submission of 2014 in order to provide in a serious and fair way for an in-depth investigation that allows to assess on time the requests of all institutions. It must be pointed out, then, a particular criticality to the reimbursements of the adoptive expenses in consideration of the fact that the decree issued in 2011 did not have economic cover and the Government is providing to adjust the financial coverage. Moreover, this decree did not provide for a refundable ceiling and this, in view of the fact that the expenses are recognized on the basis of mere certifications of the institutions, has led to an improper push to raise the costs for adoptions and has fueled of the incorrect expectations from the adoptive parents. The Government and the Commission are committed to overcoming this system, which has led to increased adoption costs, in favour of clear, effective and fair measures. On the other hand, with regard to relations with authorised bodies, the Commission has achieved full harmony, collaboration and sharing of objectives, including the implementation of control actions, appreciated by them as a means of protecting the transparency of their actions. Similarly, the institutions welcomed the restoration of the correct roles between the Commission and the agencies in relations with foreign countries, overcoming unpleasant impasses which had occurred in the past as a result of the bad habit of having foreign delegations received by the institutions, making them bear the costs. In view of international exchanges and normally in addressing the problem of a country, the Commission has always asked all authorized bodies for written contributions in order to signal criticalities and useful suggestions for the preparatory work of the meetings, but certainly the relations between central authorities and in particular the negotiations for the drawing up of bilateral agreements have been, and will be, carried out directly and exclusively by the Commission as a governmental authority that alone has the political responsibility to spend with the foreign States the word of the Government. The Government therefore assures the honourable senators that, as pointed out above, the credibility of Italy with foreign authorities and greatly increased; the operation of the Commission, very intense in recent months, is fully guaranteed and in place; the adoption procedures are fully operational and all the measures expected are issued and every time they are found to be legitimate; all the activities of the Commission are carried out strictly in accordance with the legal procedures. The protection of the human rights of children is one of the fundamental commitments through which the Government intends to qualify its action. It intends to do so by pursuing and guaranteeing in such a delicate field the maximum transparency and the maximum legality, at all costs, exercising all the powers conferred by the law. First of all, the power of systematic supervision and control, in Italy and abroad, over the authorized bodies, which, as private associations authorized by the State to operate in the adoption procedures, expose the good repute and custody of the Italian Government towards Italian citizens who confer the office and the foreign countries in which they operate. For this reason, in the last year a whole series of directives have been adopted (and others will be) aimed at making the controls effective and effective and, more generally, the necessary and continuous monitoring of the overall system and, under Article 15 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 108 of 2007, two verifications are being carried out on the permanence of the requirements for the suitability of the authorized entities and on the correctness, transparency and efficiency of their actions started following qualified reports received. The checks were initiated against the AAA, Adozioni Alphabet Association, and AiBi. Finally, it reiterates its confidence in the President of the Commission, Silvia Della Monica, and hopes that Parliament, in line with the joint motion on international adoptions adopted last July in the Chamber, will support the commitment of the Government and the Commission to the protection of children's rights in the field of international adoption policy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u31	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I was a good prophet because I think I have never seen, in twenty years of experience, a scene of surreal humor about adoptions interpreted by a Deputy Minister of Agriculture. I am not mad at you, Deputy Minister Olivero. You have probably read what Dr Della Monica has written, because it cannot be otherwise, since a series of lies have been repeated throughout the speech: the Commission has done, the Commission has decided, the Commission has acted. What Commission, since the Commission has never met and has never acted? Vice-Minister, which Commission, since it has never been convened and convened? There is talk of delegation to the President by the President-in-Office of the Council, but he cannot delegate it, because these are indelegable functions (check the DAG and they will confirm it). You are the one who makes the Commission's agenda. Too bad, though, that he never made the order of business, because he never summoned her. Therefore, all the statements made by the Deputy Minister regarding decisions taken by the Commission do not exist: it is a lie told before Parliament because the Commission has never met and has never resolved anything. He then read something that President Della Monica probably passed on to Vice President Della Monica, who passed on to those who extended - always the Della Monica - that report: he also spoke of delegation given to the Vice President. Colleagues, compared to a body that by law must have a president with certain functions (the political address) and a vice president with other functions, is it possible that a representative of the government comes to say that it is right that one person signs once as president and another as vice president, because they have different functions that they carry out collegially, when it comes to the same person who signs? Excuse me, Deputy Minister, have you come to mess with us? I'm not mad at you, but I'm surprised that a Deputy Minister of Agriculture agrees to come and do kamikaze by saying the things that have been said, that are shameful. There is more. Who within the government covers such a situation? We are insane that a government representative should come and say that the government is covering up all this line of shameful illegality, which is obvious. Should we move to the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic or the Court of Auditors in Italy to resolve positions that are clearly and grotesquely illegitimate? Can you come over here and hear these things? The Commission? Della Monica has been delegated, and - I repeat - it could not be done, because there is no delegation of functions, when a function is of the Government, to a person who is not part of the Government. The Deputy Minister has been delegated by his Minister, but he carries out an activity that the law provides is exercised by a member of the Government that has political direction. President Della Monica was appointed on 13 February last year and the Commission met only once, on 27 June, so everything the representative of the Government spoke about by giving it to the Commission, with expressions such as the Commission has done, the Commission has resolved, the Commission has put in order situations concerning the events of the Monti Government should go and ask who presided over the Commission then. We should ask the President of Sant'Egidio whether, I do not know why, there had been arrears; but let us also admit that there had been arrears in that management and therefore that a worthy activity of revocations, deliberations and measures has been carried out, who has legitimized these measures if the Commission has never been convened? What the Deputy Minister reported - We're great! We have done well, we have had great successes, the Commission has done here and the Commission has done there - who says so? The president? You mean the vice president? You mean always her? Who, of those who are members of the Commission, can come here or, out of here, at a conference, to explain the reasons of that collegial body, whose meetings in my time lasted hours and hours, because to make a decision you must first hear the report of the vice president, then the speeches of the members appointed by the various ministries, then those of the representatives of the volunteer and then, in the end, from the agenda, you have to vote and there are deadlines, in the Rules of Procedure, peremptors for which, when certain measures are taken, the Commission must decide them within 120 days. So, Deputy Minister, what did I say that the Commission did if it never met? How do you do that? (The Deputy Minister nods). I don't take it out on her, I understand, but I'm a little upset, because maybe she had to think twice before she came to look like this. I therefore find myself dissatisfied and mocked and worried, because when we deny the evidence before Parliament, it means that something really does not work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u32	Following is the question 3-01466 on the strengthening of railway links in Veneto. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u33	Madam President, in response to the questions asked, the Italian State Railways report as follows. With the current timetable, the station of Vicenza is served by more than 40 Frecciabianca connections (from/to Venice, Milan, Turin, Trieste, Udine) and 6 international connections (Eurocity + Euronight). As regards, in particular, the direct links between Vicenza and Rome, the same have been abolished since December 2004 and December 2005 (from Vicenza to Rome and from Rome to Vicenza respectively) due to the low attendance rates recorded. Low attendance, which is also the reason for the lack of a direct link for the Rome-Belluno route and vice versa, requested by the honourable Members of this House. Moreover, Vicenza is currently connected with Rome through about 20 daily travel solutions per way of travel, with change to Verona or Padua, which cover the whole day, from 6 in the morning to 19 in the evening, whose total journey times are only a few minutes longer than those of a possible direct connection with Frecciargento trains. It should also be pointed out that all the above links are carried out under market conditions, not being the subject of any public consideration, and therefore, supporting itself exclusively with traffic revenues, the relevant programming is based on commercial assessments. As for, then, the regional railway service - to which the interrogators refer proposing the establishment of a fast connection between Belluno and Venice Mestre or Padua - it is worth remembering that, now for many years, pursuant to Legislative Decree no. 422 of 1997, the programming of regional services falls within the competence of the individual Regions - in the specific case, of the Veneto Region - whose relations with Trenitalia are governed by service contracts, within which they are defined, among other things, the volume and characteristics of the services to be carried out, on the basis of the economic resources made available by the Regions themselves. Already with the timetable of 2014, the Veneto Region has given course to a plan of total reorganization of the regional railway service on the entire territory that, adopting an offer of cadenced type, has previewed in extreme synthesis: a system cadenced of fast regionals that connect the provincial capitals and the major centers; a system cadenced of regionals that serve all the stations-stopped; an increase of the number of the trains and, consequently, of the places offered; the use of dedicated rolling stock for each line-relationship. Any modification or integration of this system - which has nevertheless led to a substantial improvement in the punctuality of regional trains - falls within the exclusive competence of the Veneto Region. Finally, I note that the competent offices of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, during the meetings with the company Trenitalia aimed at reprogramming the services in contract of service (offer December 2014-2015), have formally asked the same company to carry out a feasibility study on the possibility of previewing the route via Vicenza of the couple Intercity Notte 763-764 (Rome-Bolzano), with the insertion of the stops of Vicenza, Rovigo and Ferrara to offer a direct connection with Rome.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u36	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his kind reply. Before I tell you whether it is satisfactory or not from my point of view, allow me a classification. The data you provided, more or less, I knew them; but we must realize that we are within the Veneto Region and that it represents the first Italian tourist reality, with over 60 million visitors per year, attracted by a wide range of offers, from art tourism to the seaside, from spa to sports, from mountain to countryside. Of these 60 million, about half is represented by the catchment area of Venice and Province, less than a quarter by that of Verona, while the remaining (about 17 million visitors) is distributed in the capitals of Padua (4.5 million), Belluno (4 million), Vicenza (2 million), Treviso and Rovigo (1,5 million each respectively). I would like to focus on the capitals of Vicenza and Belluno, the subject of this question and unique ones not provided by direct railway connections with the capital and other important Italian cities of art, such as Bologna and Florence. Compared to 2005 - as far as I know, the year of abolition of these direct links - certain facts need to be highlighted. There has been a change in the clientele that takes advantage of the railway services, moving from a purely business to a tourist clientele. In addition, a serious and persistent financial crisis has forced the closure of many shops in the historic centers; cultural tourism, on the other hand, is an excellent solution for the revival of the capital cities. As of 1 October 2008, Vicenza also lost all air connections, due to the closure of Dal Molin airport with the simultaneous demolition of the runway. Belluno, finally, suffered a decrease in the annual tourist presences of about 20 percent, due to the difficulties found to reach the capital, with streets saturated and difficult to travel, lack of airports in the vicinity and railway connections without convenient connecting times. In the light of these considerations, I cannot be satisfied with the answer, Mr Undersecretary, because the tourism and the architectural beauties that Vicenza and Belluno hold must increasingly represent a resource for hotels, restaurants, bars, shops, cinemas and theatres and all the existing induced, but there should also be a railway infrastructure network with the related services that allows the rapid and direct connection between these capitals of the Veneto Province and the most well-known Italian cities abroad, which have long lived in tourism and which can be a multiplier of economic effects. I therefore hope, Mr Undersecretary, that, pending the completion of the High Speed between Venice and Milan, inserted in the Mediterranean corridor of the trans-European transport network, we will be able to make a rapid change of timetables and connections so that Vicenza and Belluno can have adequate services in harmony with the other Venetian capitals. I will finish quickly. Infrastructure and services are the basis of development and, in particular, of tourist attraction capacity. The coordination of timetables - we also asked for this in the question - is something very important: we cannot, for example, find ourselves having non-congruent coincidences between local lines and high-speed lines. It is not acceptable and is not adequate to provide a modern service to tourism. So let's put in place simplifications and simple actions capable of producing great results.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u37	The following is the question 3-01649 on the reduction of long-distance trains from and to Sicily. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u38	Madam President, with regard to medium to long-distance rail connections to and from Sicily, Trenitalia reports that the current offer of services consists of five pairs of trains (Intercity-Intercity Night) that connect daily the island with the main localities of the Tyrrhenian director and with Milan. Specifically, it is a couple of intercity Rome-Palermo and vice versa, with sections to and from Syracuse; a couple of intercity Rome-Syracuse and vice versa, with sections to and from Palermo; two pairs of intercity night Rome-Syracuse and vice versa, with respective sections to and from Palermo; a couple of intercity night Milan-Syracuse and vice versa, with sections to and from Palermo. All these trains are part of the service contract 2009-2014, concluded between Trenitalia and the State, expired on 31 December 2014 and pending to be extended by the State for one year, until the end of 2015. After that date, as no further extension is possible, a new expectation will be required. I would like to point out that no suspension of intercity services in medium and long service contracts has been authorised by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. I also signal that from the change of railway timetable of 14 December 2014, the Italian Railway Network, through the Blueferries society, has activated a service of fast ferrying in overlap with the services of ferrying of the railway convoys and the railway carriages in order to operate an improvement, modernization and efficiency of the passenger connections to and from Sicily. As is well known, it is currently under study the hypothesis of a load break between Villa San Giovanni and Messina for intercity travellers on the island through the use, at current conditions and rates, of the new and more modern fast connections, that would allow not only to travel with greater comfort and safety, but also to greatly reduce the time of crossing the Strait and, at the same time, make the railway connections more efficient. The project hypothesis will also have to include infrastructure interventions ( treadmills, escalators and so on) which will facilitate travellers to the maximum without impacting in any way on current employment levels. Of course, such a hypothesis must be first and foremost shared with the local government. Finally, I inform that last 16 February has held near the Ministry of Infrastructures and the transports a meeting to the presence of the local authorities and the Sicilian Region, just in order to determine the will to proceed to a clearly improvement of the connections, being understood that the services of the fast ships (about 9 pairs per day on weekdays and 6 pairs in those holidays) are to be considered additional to those already carried out with the traditional ferries. I would like to conclude by ensuring that, on other occasions, Mr Lupi and myself have expressed the greatest sensitivity and attention on this subject: it would be unacceptable for the vulnus to be able to maintain territorial continuity, the right to efficient services and an adequate supply of tourism mobility, as well as the failure to guarantee employment levels.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u41	ORRU' (PD). Mr Undersecretary, I can only say that I am partially satisfied with the answer. I am certainly satisfied with the speed of the answer, given that my question is on 12 February, but I am only partially satisfied with the fact that the answer given to me is still hypothetical. I live in a region where territorial continuity, which also refers to European measures, is fundamental; it comes to the aid of those regions which, in the Member States of the Union, present difficulties of connection. As I already knew, as part of the Commission's public works, I learned about the end of the 2009-2014 contract. In particular, my question also refers to the hearing of the FRY summits, in which it was said that an emergency solution was found. I am satisfied with the sensitivity shown by the Government and, I repeat, for the speed of the answer, but I do not think it is possible to continue to talk about hypotheses for a region like that from which I come. The railway system in my region is almost non-existent and territorial continuity is fundamental. I know that they have been made available to the passengers of the accompanying services at the moment when you get off the train, guaranteeing in this way substantially (with so much of companions) the territorial continuity for the single passenger, but still reduced the territorial continuity night with the trains: there are only very few runs. I would like to say that I have also tabled a number of questions on this issue; in particular, an act of inspection union in my own name, concerning the interruption of a railway route, has been waiting for a reply since 2013, but this is a question which has nothing to do with the issue of territorial continuity, so obviously I do not ask you to give me an answer here, Mr Undersecretary. It is assumed to create new services: I have heard about escalators, treadmills. I absolutely agree with the investments and the fact that you spend money for my Region, even if then we are not even able to do the maintenance and for this reason there are serious problems with the railway route. Territorial continuity today is important because in May there will be Expo 2015: why not assume that my Region can be a tourist destination? Territorial continuity is fundamental because it brings economy and tourism for us is economy. So, Mr. Undersecretary, I repeat that I appreciated the great sensitivity of the Government and the speed of the answer, but I would like to talk less about hypotheses, obviously involving the national government and the actors you have spoken about (Trenitalia and RFI that, as we know well, are companies participated by the State), as well as the Sicilian Region itself: only by ensuring a synergy from this point of view we will perhaps end talking about hypotheses and we will implement programmes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The questioning and questioning of the agenda is thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u42	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-405.ana.u43	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 10 March, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.59 p.m.
