ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u10	[[Brusio.]] I'm begging colleagues to turn down the volume of the whisper. URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would simply like to make one point. We're training to do 100 meters, like the Olympics. However, as we work in the committees, which last until the sitting begins, when we come to the Chamber and the quorum is already required, we are in a certain difficulty in fulfilling this duty, which we would like to fulfil. A dynamic should therefore be introduced to enable the Commissions to arrive on time. For example, we were committed to the Budget Committee to listen to the Government's report on the Constitutional Court's ruling on pensions, in the light of the consequences that that judgment will have on public finance in the event of the recovery of those financial resources for the benefit of pensioners who have suffered a reduction. So we couldn't quit and leave that fulfillment, which we consider important, to run here to guarantee the legal number. However, I do not know who is asking for it all the time and who loves this kind of sport, but I believe that this must be regulated by the Presidency, in order to allow the senators to finish their work in the Commission and arrive in this Chamber in order to fulfil this duty as well. It should be established, for example, that the Commissions must stop their work a quarter of an hour earlier; then they will organize the work accordingly, perhaps moving them to the evening. Or it is defined that they expect ten minutes from the beginning of the sitting, to allow senators to arrive and guarantee the quorum. Otherwise, we are at the 100-metre race, at the sport and also at the debasement of the parliamentary institution through this type of impossible mechanism. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u11	Senator Uras, I understand what you are saying, but the management of the work of the Commissions, whose importance is in no way underestimated, must be guaranteed by the Presidents of the Commission, who know very well that the House starts at 16.30. Since verification of the quorum can be requested before any vote and because we put the minutes to the vote, any Member requesting such verification, and whose request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, is entitled to do so. I therefore believe that the responsibility for ensuring that individual senators are present at the beginning of this House lies with the Presidents of the Commission and I believe that the senators in each Commission will have to take it into account so that they have the opportunity to be present on time, without having to race.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u14	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I think you too belong to a Commission, like all of us; some of us also belong to two Commissions. The meaning of Mr Uras' speech, if I am not mistaken, must also be interpreted in a new discipline of the work of the Commissions. It is a question of reviewing Parliament's work completely, giving the House the necessary space, but also giving every senator the opportunity to intervene in the Commissions, whose work is often cut out in times left by the House and do not allow a continuous discussion of the issues. I say this because, engaged in the different Commissions, we happen to interrupt our work and often lose track of it. The invitation to the Presidency, which starts from my own, certainly not from the Group (and I do not know how many in this House can share it), is to want to reformulate the work in such a way that the work in the Commission is not regarded as residual, but as a useful work for all of us in all respects. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u15	You're right, Senator Floris. This is a very ancient issue, which has been resolved or which has been tried to resolve in various ways, without having yet managed to arrive at a satisfactory solution. However, I will refer your request to the President and the Group leaders, if they consider it, will also be able to put the matter before the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u16	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1758. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the rapporteur gave the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u17	Madam President, I would just like to make one remark. It seems to me that, beyond the tones and arguments, all the interventions of the morning lead to a common assessment of the opportunity, indeed the necessity, that there is a very strong shared commitment, both of Parliament and of the Government, to take care in all its declinations also of the ascending phase of Community measures, to emphasize a sense of codetermination and not to live, sometimes even in a wrong way - but at least this is the perception - European legislation as something lowered from above and in any case from subjects on which we cannot interfere. This is not only not true but must be made even less true through our common commitment. For the rest, there have also been very specific comments, but they refer in detail to the content of amendments that we will have the opportunity to evaluate and discuss during the day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u18	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u19	Madam President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Chiti and the Members of the Commission for the work they have done and if you will allow me a few minutes, I think it is important not to review the individual amendments that have also been mentioned in general debate, because many of the amendments that have long been examined in the Commission have been re-tabled in this House; but there will be time, when examining the articles, to address some specific issues. However, there are wider and more general issues related to this delegation law, which have been raised and on which I believe it is important to dwell. The rapporteur, the Senator Council and some Senators of the 5 Star Movement questioned the question of the split between the law of European delegation and European law, but this was a precise choice made by the legislator with Law No 234 of 2012. Before that, there was only one Community law, we wanted to divide it into two parts, with a delegation law and a European law, we also wanted - and if within the summer break we can approve the delegation law and European law we will resume a second package in the second quarter - a further delegation law and a European law. We have done so for two basic reasons, which are the ones mentioned in the various speeches. The first is to allow for a more in-depth and separate examination (although in some respects it relates to the transposition work done through the delegation that Parliament gives to the Government) of the work instead of the joint management of the Community litigation, which is the one proper to European law. It is good that both laws are assessed more thoroughly and faster than in the past, because the depth with which they are assessed and the speed with which they are managed will allow us to get to the regime - the Government hopes that this will happen already in 2015 - with two laws of delegation and two European laws examined and approved by the two branches of Parliament, for the reasons that have been evoked. The number of infringements, currently 92, has been mentioned. Our country has also reached 89, but the figure doesn't say much in itself: perhaps it says more if you remember that little more than a year ago, at the beginning of the Renzi government, the infringements were 121 and they were on the rise, while now they are 92 and they are down. In just over a year, that is, we have reduced Community litigation by 25%. We have therefore triggered a permanent tendency to reduce infringements and I recall that all the major countries with an advanced federal or regional structure are between 80 and 60 infringements, depending on the period. If we managed to reach a physiological level of infringements of less than 80 we would be perfectly on average with the large countries which, having a federal or regional structure, often suffer greater delays in some aspects of the transposition of Community litigation than with smaller and unitary states. It seems to me, however, that the trend is positive and that is what has been called for in the various speeches I have heard in general debate. Of course, if we continue at this rate, in two years we may have reduced Community infringements by more than 40% and perhaps even by 50%. Moreover, I would like to remind you that the European Commission - and I say this because it remains in the documents and helps to read the statistics - is very active in initiating infringement procedures (it is only a ten-day failure to transpose and the infringement procedure is already open); it is not as diligent in closing and closing these procedures. We, for example, have already closed 8 of the remaining 18 non-transposition procedures, but they are not listed in the documents because they have not been officially filed by the European Commission. In any case, the trend is downward, also thanks to the fruitful and loyal - term that also appears in the Community Treaties - cooperation between the Government and Parliament. I am sure that, by continuing in this loyal cooperation between the Government and Parliament, we will certainly be able not only to maintain this tendency to reduce, but also to speed up the times and that is certainly the understanding of the Government. I am not going to dwell on the individual content of the directives we are transposing, which have been examined in the Commission with a great deal of detail. It is clear that we are proceeding with the transposition of some very important systemic directives, which are also linked to the efforts we are making in Europe as a government to complete governance around monetary union and the euro. As an example, I would like to recall the transposition of the package for the banking union, to which we are proceeding with this delegation law. It is a legislative work that we are doing and which is also linked to the political activity that we are pursuing in view of the debate on how to complete governance around monetary union, which will have a very important time at the June European Council, with the debate on the so-called report of the four Presidents on the completion of economic and monetary union. The system of delegation was contested. But the law of European delegation is organized on the system of delegation and, in 99% of cases, it is organized so that it can be reviewed in the parliamentary committees when the implementing decrees are adopted. The system of the delegation law is not a choice of the Renzi Government, but is a systemic Italian choice, to ensure a timely transposition of Community directives. Moreover, the system of delegation law does not at all prevent Parliament, if it considers it, from taking any legislative initiative to transpose this or that other Community directive by means of a specific law. It is up to Parliament to decide whether to do so. Senator Donno's speech focused a great deal on Italy's work in the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. I would remind you that we had not only, of course, guaranteed our commitment to reducing litigation and infringements (and the figures I have given you confirm this), but we are also reaping the benefits - and today is a good day to say this - of the work undertaken during the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Indeed, the European Agenda for Migration, which the European Commission has just adopted a few hours ago in Brussels, and the country recommendations addressed to Italy... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u20	Colleagues, the government representative can't speak. I think it is appropriate, first of all out of respect and, then, to allow all of us to have all the elements, at least to lower (I don't say silence) the volume of all these sheds. Please, Mr. Gozi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u21	Mr Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I was saying that it is certainly a good day to talk about the results of the Italian Presidency, as Senator Donno and other Senators who spoke in general debate this morning, because a few hours ago the European Commission adopted two very important proposals, which are the direct consequence of the work carried out during our Presidency. The European Agenda on Migration, which is an unprecedented turning point in European immigration and asylum policy, takes up all the priorities that we have identified during our six months; I refer you back to the conclusions of the European Council in Luxembourg in October and you will find all the objectives that follow the European Agenda on Migration this morning. Similarly, the issue of flexibility and the commitment that the Juncker Commission has taken in applying the common rules more conducive to growth is for the second time clearly applied in the Country-Recommendations that the European Commission has addressed to Italy today. I do not know whether I will be able to draw more attention to the issue of GMOs, Madam President. Perhaps yes, perhaps the GMO signature could reduce noise; if it doesn't, be patient, I will do the same. It is clear that various senators, through amendments and agendas, have put forward an issue which is certainly of great importance. I am referring to research in general, public research in general and the implementation of that GMO compromise that we achieved during the six-month Presidency: it was one of the last acts on which we had an agreement during our Presidency and which is also followed by a further proposal for a regulation that the Senate is examining at an upward stage. These are certainly very important issues, but I do not think that this is where we should address the issue of public research in the field of food, bio-food and food biodiversity in general. On the other hand, I believe that we need to address it in a specific debate on this issue, which is not linked to European law. The government is perfectly aware of the urgency and the need to deal with and resolve the issue of public research in the open field, ensuring the maximum safety of our typical crops, and we will have to do so before the summer break. These are issues on which I will return when we look at the individual amendments and agendas; I am already announcing, Madam President, that I will call for the withdrawal or give an opinion contrary to all the amendments and agendas that put this issue, because I believe, given its importance, that it is much more useful, even in order to ensure much more appropriate deepening, to deal with it in another place than that of the European delegation law. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u22	We greet the students and the teachers of the technical scientific center of the industrial superior technical "Fermi Giorgi" in Lucca, who are visiting the Senate [[Applause.]] We also greet the representation of the Rotary Club "District 2050" of Lombardy. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u23	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Colleagues, the Presidency needs a little time to register these opinions for the purposes of inadmissibility. Therefore, I should like to suspend the sitting briefly. (The sitting was suspended at 16.56 p.m. and resumed at 5.23 p.m.) Let's get back to work. I would point out that, since these opinions are articulated, perhaps it would be useful for the senators to take a look at them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u24	Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 1.10 and turn it into an agenda, the G1.10, which deals with the issue of insularity, committing the Government to define among the general principles and guiding criteria of delegation also that of insularity. In view of this and of the opinion that the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, to whom the text has already been delivered, I would withdraw all the amendments I have tabled to Article 1, as well as to the other articles that deal with the issue of insularity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u25	Excuse me, Senator Uras, but is the agenda referred to in Rule 1? URAS (Misto-SEL). Yes, ma'am. The agenda is referred to Article 1 and would then allow us to withdraw all the amendments that deal with the subject. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator Uras, but perhaps it would be good if the Presidency also had the text of the agenda. It would also be appropriate to specify explicitly the other amendments which may have been withdrawn and which do not relate to the issue of insularity. URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, if you think so, I can report them directly to the Offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u26	All right, senator, you can report them to the offices. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u27	As regards the amendments referred to in Article 1, the opinion is in favour of amendment 1.2, which is essentially identical to amendment 1.4 (correct text). The opinion was also in favour of Amendments Nos 1,300 and 1,301. With regard to Amendment 1.10...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u28	Senator Guerra, I remind you that amendment 1.10 has been withdrawn and transformed into agenda G1.10, the text of which, according to Senator Uras, should already have been handed over to you and the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u29	WARRA, rapporteur. Yes, it is true, but here we are in such a confusion that it is difficult to hear what is being communicated. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I realize that, but Senator Uras has made that clear. WARRA, rapporteur. I apologise, among other things rightly and correctly, Senator Uras gave me the text. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u30	Excuse me, colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u31	Senator Gasparri, I'm sorry, but we can't work like this. I call on everyone to be silent, because we must understand what is being discussed and what we approve of. Senator Guerra, you should comment on agenda G1.10, tabled by Senator Uras, alternative to amendment 1.10. WARRA, rapporteur. The opinion was in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would also ask you to give your opinion on the other agendas referred to in Article 1. WARRA, rapporteur. On the agenda, Mr G1,100, there was an invitation to withdraw for the reasons set out by Mr Gozi in his reply, otherwise the opinion was against. On the other hand, I am in favour of the adoption of agendas G1.101 and G1.102. On Amendment 1.0.300, on which I do not know whether the opinion of the 5th Commission has arrived, I welcome the fact that it is a government initiative. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Commission's opinion on this amendment has not yet arrived. The rapporteur's amendment 1,500 incorporates the condition of the 5th Commission and the representative of the Government will also express his views on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u32	President. - The next item is the report (Doc. In particular, in relation to the agenda G1,100 (text 2), at the first signature of Senator Cattaneo - but in reality also to the amendments, which we will see gradually in the examination of the measure, on the subject of research-GMO - I confirm the awareness of the need to deal with and solve the problem of public research in the open field, ensuring the maximum safety of our typical crops within the summer break. Precisely with this commitment, the Government invites Senator Cattaneo to withdraw the agenda. The Government then accepted Senator Uras's agenda G1.10 and gave a favourable opinion on the rapporteur's amendment 1,500.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u33	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2, which is essentially the same as Amendment 1.4 (correct text). MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Marino Mauro Maria and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1.4 (correct text), tabled by Senator Cardinali. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,300, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,301, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.10 has been changed to agenda G1.10 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,500 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). There is an invitation to withdraw on the agenda G1,100 (text 2). Senator Cattaneo, do you welcome him?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u34	Before I comment on this request, I should like briefly to comment on my decision. I am aware that an agenda, even if approved in this House, would not have the opportunity to come about without the full conviction of the Government, which does not feel ready to commit itself. What is certain is that for thirteen years public research has been standing on the stake and, with it, the protection of typical Italian foods. From now on this block is also attributable to this Government and this Parliament. And, therefore, I welcome the commitment of the Government and the Undersecretary to ensure that before the summer break we have - I hope - the courage to turn the page so that Italy really promotes, in this area so strategic, scientific research, as laid down in Article 9 of the Constitution, and guarantees its free exercise, as laid down in Article 33, respecting all the security rules. I would like to point out that today, on the evening Corriere, the Nobel Prize winner Amartya Sen said, supporting GMOs, with a phrase that I would like to remain in the memory and thought of all of us: We can very well combine new technologies with respect for biodiversity. If we do not want to call them GMOs, let us call them new varieties. With these reasons, and thanking the Senator Capigroup who signed the agenda G1,100 (text 2) and also colleagues who, during the day, asked me to subscribe to it, I accept the request made to me and withdraw it. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u37	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I am very disappointed that the Government is asking for this agenda to be withdrawn. It seems to me that we have all listened very carefully to Senator Cattaneo's speech and, if I read correctly, the agenda G1,100 (text 2) is signed by Senators Cattaneo, Zanda, Romans and Schifani. All of Parliament seemed to me to converge and agree on the important content of this agenda and the vague words spoken by the representative of the Government do not seem sufficient to justify its withdrawal. It seemed to me that, in this case, a much stronger and more precise commitment was needed on a subject which was certainly controversial, but on which it seemed to me that, on the part of all the groups, a consensus had been reached which I would like to call almost unanimous. Mr Undersecretary, I hope that your promise will be precise and rigorous. The reference to taking initiatives by summer does not seem to me to be such a peremptory promise. And I hope that Parliament and this House can begin to deepen the issues that have been referred to with precision and passion by Senator Cattaneo, whom I thank for the commitment he has shown in this case on such an important subject for the scientific research of our country. I hope that these days have not passed unnecessarily and I ask - I repeat and would like it to be put on the record - that there should be a commitment that is not vague, but very precise of the Government on a subject that I thought everyone was passionate about. It seems that other groups do not want to support this commitment. It is remarkable that a Parent Company signs and then the Government asks for this signature to be contradicted, but that has happened. I hope at least these days haven't been lost. The subject is too important for it to be dispersed among the many things that are done. Scientific research is fundamental, as is the subject that has been dealt with. I repeat, therefore, Mr Undersecretary: this is a commitment you make. We can also comply with your request to withdraw this agenda, but I hope that not by the summer, but at a precise time between June and July, the Government will become the protagonist of a reform path on an important subject that for thirteen years, as Senator Cattaneo pointed out, sees us at the stake. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u40	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, the subject of Senator Cattaneo's agenda, whom I thank very much for thinking, drawing up and presenting it, goes far beyond the specific issue she is dealing with, namely the issue of GMOs. This is because - at least I have understood it and for this reason I have signed it - it is an agenda that places at the heart of Parliament's interest a crucial issue for the future of Italy, scientific research, which I believe is the heart of our future. I'm sorry to have to say this to Senator Paolo Romani, but I think this is not the right place, because the subject should not be treated by pricking each other. We are talking about a decisive issue for Italy, and I believe that it is right that Parliament should address it in an overall way. I am also grateful to the Government for the commitment it has made, a commitment that the Senators of the Democratic Party certainly intend to support with the presentation of a parliamentary instrument, in the times that Mr Gozi announced, to make it concrete and to bring the issue of GMOs into the Chamber of the Senate in Italy's scientific research policies. It is too delicate a matter, Senator Romani, to reduce it to a small controversy among our groups. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u43	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I welcome the government's call for withdrawal to address the more general issue in greater detail. I am obliged, however, to be intellectually honest, to explain to all those who perhaps have not yet read carefully that it is one thing to discuss - finally even seriously - what it means to invest in public scientific research, all research, and other account is the specific issue of research on GMOs in the open field. It is clear to everyone that, on this point, there have been discussions, not between obscurantists and scientists, but of a scientific nature, which we will continue to discuss, on an issue which is clear especially to those who have been dealing with these issues for years and which concerns the general problem of contamination. Madam President, together with many senators from the Senate Agriculture Commission, in the 14th legislature (from 2001 to 2006), I did an investigation, which is in the proceedings of the Senate, with a visit to Monsanto's laboratories, in the places where these experiments were carried out, which were mostly greenhouses (we have interesting photographs of how they dressed us from head to foot, covering also the mouth, to avoid contamination problems). I say this to make it clear that, for the problem of research, one account is the safe place, like the laboratory, another is the issue that concerns the open field. In conclusion, not wanting to go into detail now, our country unanimously approved a motion in this House and others in the House last year, in which we were talking about research, but declined exactly on that point. We are always open to discussions, because they are good, but I would like to explain that our problem of impoverishing agricultural biodiversity is now linked to very complex factors. The protection of biodiversity, which is a great resource for our agriculture, based on typicality, does not happen with genetically modified organisms, but investing in research in that field. All the varieties we have selected over many centuries are the fruit of peasant wisdom: just think of the diseases we have today. That, perhaps, should be given even more attention. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u46	FACTORS (M5S). Madam President, I would ask this House for a minimum of time, since it has been given so much time to all the proposers on this agenda, such as Senator Cattaneo. At this moment I would like to speak on behalf of my Group and also of those many scientists who do not have a voice in the political classrooms, because unfortunately behind the openings there are very large economic interests, including research, which is often funded by those multinationals that pretend to oppose. I would therefore ask you for some time, Madam President, because unfortunately, in this House, I hear a lot about science and a lot about it. I would like to read to you the important meditation of a constitutionalist, so that it is not said that the 5 Star Movement is populist, which gives a beautiful definition of what is science, what is technology, what is politics and what is ethical. I'm sorry, but I'll take all the time I need, because you've given so much to other groups and I hope you'll give it to me as well: Science, and in particular the science of nature, allows us a progressive knowledge of the world around us, of the phenomena that pass through it. Science (the true one, not the one discussed in this House) itself has no inherent finalism other than the cognitive one. It has no other purpose than to increase knowledge, individual and widespread. And I'm not saying that, but Valerio Onida. So there is no good science and no less good science in itself. Science can only be honest, in the sense of not dealing for truth what is not (false scientific) or for sure what is not. There is no zero risk in science. Every scientist knows that. And those who say it say it is false. The technique, on the other hand, is the creation and use of tools and processes to achieve transformational effects on reality through conscious human intervention on it. It's based on scientific knowledge, but it's not science. The technique can be effective or not effective in achieving certain effects can be evaluated, being instrument of transformation, good or not good according to what it achieves. So, I'm sorry for all those who don't understand much in science here, but genetically modified organisms are not science, but technology, and their use, especially in such a sensitive area as their introduction into the environment, must be carefully considered from a political point of view. I do not want to enter into the eternal controversy whether GMOs are harmful to human health or not. The hypothesis on damage to human health is not supported by literature and the few works on the subject contain many contradictions. It is true that in normal life, as in scientific life, those who do not go looking for something hardly find it. A serious scientist knows that there are no definitive data and would only say that we cannot assess with certainty the health impact of GMOs, but we need a risk-benefit assessment. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would also add that we should consider who is the risk and who is the benefit of the massive introduction of GMOs into agriculture and food. But I would enter a minefield, where there is also a risk of complaints. As for the environmental impact, Senators Zanda and Giovanardi speak here about science and, therefore, we are at very low levels. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u47	Colleagues, I invite you to let Senator Fattori continue her speech. Senator, everyone has their own level. Please continue your speech calmly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u48	MATTESINI (PD). But you must not offend colleagues! FACTORS (M5S). In the prestigious journal "Nature" alarming scientific data have recently been published. Anyone who knows this magazine can talk about science. In its issue of June 12, 2014, the world's most illustrious scientific magazine released a study demonstrating the harmfulness of transgenic crops for the environment. In particular, the article highlights how the combined use of GMOs and herbicides causes the emergence of weed plants with multiple resistances, just as bacteria become resistant to antibiotics. To conclude, the government has promised to take serious consideration of open field cultivation. However, I would like to make an impact on research. I am sorry to say, but the various solutions proposed by researchers to open up research in the open field, to develop transgenic species made in Italy and to deal with multinational companies, are a pious illusion. In fact, GMOs that have passed long stages of study and have proved to be suitable for large-scale cultivation count on the fingers of one hand and are all patented. It is difficult to imagine that, if we suddenly allow ourselves freedom to grow GMOs on our territory, our poor research could compete with multinationals with enormous economic power, which have already colonized vast parts of the world. Unfortunately, once you open the doors, as mentioned above, you do not go back. There are many interests and there is a huge amount of money and power. I would like to remind the Government that it cannot make a commitment to legislate on this matter, because it is Parliament that legislates. And Parliament has adopted a unanimous motion to prevent open-field research, which is nothing more than a way of introducing GMOs into the environment and leaving the door open to multinational companies which, in fact, are the ones that finance the major Italian laboratories. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni.]] Therefore, I really ask for a commitment from the Government to respect the motion that has been voted unanimously in this Parliament, because what we want in May is only to allow the cultivation of Monsanto's genetically modified maize. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] So please respect Parliament's freedom and the freedom of those who do not want to have the fields contaminated with GMOs. Freedom is not just about researchers. These decisions are the responsibility of citizens, farmers and society as a whole. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u50	Obviously the agenda has been withdrawn and, therefore, it is not a substantive debate on GMOs that we have been dealing with today. I would ask you, Senator Candiani, to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u52	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, you are always magnanimous. Some people have been doing the rally for 20 minutes. I asked for the floor. Be patient. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The time is that provided for in the Rules of Procedure because, as Senator Fattori says, everyone is given the time that is due. Please, Senator Candiani. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Senator Cattaneo, as recited by an ancient adage, senators boni viri, senatus mala bestia. We talked about this a few days ago and we went into it. You will have noticed that the parliamentary dynamic is not so linear and, above all, so consistent with what you would expect. In fact, if there is an agenda whose subscribers, after its name, are the Parent Company of the PD, the Parent Company of Forza Italia and all the other Majority Leaders (the senators and Senators De Biasi, Formigoni, Bianconi, etc.), one would expect a linear and straight path towards a large majority approval. But it wasn't. Here you have to ask yourself a little what happened. It was enough to scroll through the next pages and she would have noticed that there are agendas and amendments tabled by Senators of the PD who go in the direction diametrically opposed to that of the agenda that she tabled. She must have noticed, therefore, that the government does not have a defined political line on the subject, because it wants to avoid exposing itself to a politically incorrect subject, perhaps remaining disguised and avoiding having to say yes or no to its own senators or to public opinion. Of course we must talk about this issue, because today, as you rightly pointed out this morning, there are paradoxical situations where in Italy there are bans and then we eat pig that has been raised in Germany with GMO products. It's a paradox. Of course there are situations that need to be addressed, because there are diseases that are attacking our crops and we do not even know what scientific research is doing to avoid losing those too. Of course, Senator Zanda, we must talk about the subject, because in Italy there is practically no more a seed company. We are now forced to import seeds from abroad, where scientific research is certainly in the hands not of farmers, but of those who speculate on agriculture with scientific research. And we also lost control of what can be management through the seed of agriculture. If we cannot produce and reproduce through seeds tomorrow, we will not even be able to preserve those crops that come to us from previous generations. And then, Mr President, we are bringing to the Committee on Agriculture a measure that talks about the protection of organic farming. There are really so many issues that we need to look into, and we also ask the government to do so. However, everything is said except that this House has not already dealt with the issue of GMOs. I remind President Zanda that it was discussed in the Senate Chamber at the beginning of the legislature, when a very large majority of the agenda was adopted, on 21 May 2013, in which the Senate of the Republic expressed itself precisely in the opposite direction to what you, on the other hand, subscribed to on the Cattaneo agenda. So, Senator Cattaneo, trust the senators less and trust your intuition a little more, as I told you the other day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u55	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-MovX). Madam President, I will be very quick and quick. I don't want to comment on the research. I hear about research and innovation every day. But since, speaking of GMOs, I have heard that we eat Parmigiano Reggiano GMOs or that tomatoes of our culture disappear, I would like to clarify a concept, which is not mine: in the focus on the agri-food sector, made by Coldiretti, Symbola and so on, it turns out that Italy boasts 120 agri-food products in which it is world leader in quality. There are Italian food products that dominate the world markets: we are the first of 45 products worldwide. The production model of Italian agriculture is a sample in the production of added value, always with regard to our agri-food products. Italian agriculture is among the most sustainable. Finally, Italy is at the top of food security worldwide and is the first European country for the number of organic farmers. So, I sincerely thank the Government, in the figure of Undersecretary Gozi, who has decided to defend Italian agriculture. Thank you. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senators Fucksia and Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u58	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking Senator Cattaneo, because with her agenda, which I have signed with many of my group's senators, she has managed to bring to the attention of this House a decisive issue on which the debate is and must remain open. Of course, this House has already expressed itself, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, in a statement which has seen the great majority of the members of this House strongly in its vote. But it is neither heresy nor error to reflect again on a subject on which the daily experience and the thought of scientists bring us new elements day after day. And that is exactly what I believe the Senate intends to do. This day has not been useless, because it has pushed the Government to make a strong commitment, which will certainly be carried out quickly, as the Undersecretary recalled. It was not useless, because I believe it will stimulate the action of some of our Commissions. I will personally propose to the Commission, of which I have the honour to be President, to resume reflection and work on a subject which - I come back to this - is certainly decisive, also and above all seen in world prospecting. Therefore, it is a subject not to be dealt with with with political or ideological prejudices, but to be deepened, listening to the reflections of scientists, but also knowing that we fully assume the responsibilities of politicians. That is what this House must do, and that is what my Group intends to do, making a contribution to everyone's decision. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u59	As they have been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1.101 and G1.102 will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The Government's amendment 1.0.300 to include an additional article is set aside pending the opinion of the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u60	We greet the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education (Bramante) in Macerata. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u61	We now come to the examination of Article 2, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u62	I am against Amendment 2,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u63	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u64	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,200, tabled by Senator Piccoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u65	I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u66	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u67	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senators De Pin and Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senators De Pin and Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senators De Pin and Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.5 (text 2), tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.6 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u68	I am in favour of amendment 4.4 (correct text) if the following rewording is accepted: in point (a) replace the words "the wider" with the words "an appropriate text" and in point (c) replace the words "the wider words" with the words "the more appropriate."
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u69	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u70	Senator Comaroli, do you accept the proposed reformulation? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4.4 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4 (text 2), tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 4 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.0.5 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u71	Madam President, I withdraw amendment 5.208.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u72	Madam President, Amendment 5,600, the text of which is being distributed, aims to reaffirm the need for the opinion of the parliamentary committees of the House and the Senate, also with regard to the directive on tobacco. Since this directive contains specific principles and does not appear in Annex B, if this passage is not clarified it may not be clear that it must be done.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u73	The remaining amendments are set out. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 5,200 to 5,210 are impervious. I call on the representative of the Government to comment on amendment 5,600, tabled by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u74	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u75	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,600. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5,600, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 5 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u76	Madam President, Amendment 6,207 is very simple. It refers to Article 6, which refers to the deposit guarantee scheme and refers to point (d), where it is stipulated that the deposit guarantee scheme may provide for intervention other than the reimbursement of depositors. I call for this sentence to be supplemented so that any subsidiary intervention or replacement of the reimbursement will, to the maximum extent possible, protect savers, depositors, those who are blameless of the crisis or the problem of the bank. It is a rule that should already be incorporated into the very principle provided for by the delegation and, therefore, it is only a specification, which I believe is useful, however, in order to protect the weakest part, i.e. the depositor, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u77	The remaining amendments are set out. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 6,205 and 6,206 are impervious. I also note that on Amendment 6,200, tabled by Senator Comaroli, there is the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, limited to point 1 of point (d). I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u78	I am against all the amendments. I would like to point out, in connection with the last speech, that the attitude in which the opinion is expressed contrary to a large number of amendments is linked to a principle of the legislative economy for which the amendments simply reaffirm clearly supported concepts in the directive are not accepted as a further principle.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u79	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u80	Let us move on to amendment 6,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, limited to the number 1 of point (d). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,200, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, for the procedural part. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6,201 tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6,202, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6207, tabled by Senator Vacciano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.203, tabled by Senators Candiani and Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,204 tabled by Senators Candiani and Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 6,205 and 6,206 are impervious. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 7, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled which are intended to be presented. I note that amendments 7,200, 7,203, 7,204 and 7,214 are impervious in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u81	Madam President, I am in favour of the identical amendments 7,205 and 7,206; the opinion is against the remaining amendments. I believe that, in the current wording, the G.7.100 agenda is not acceptable, especially because of its strictness. I am therefore going back to the Government if it is proposing a reformulation, otherwise the opinion is against it. Finally, I am opposed to the agendas for G7,101 and G7,102.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u82	Madam President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur. On the agenda G7.100 I propose a rewording of the device, with the insertion, after the words: "Engagement the Government" of the words: "to evaluate the possibility of "to." If the rewording is accepted, the opinion is in favour, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u83	In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 7,200 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 7.201. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.201, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.202, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 7,203 and 7,204 are impervious. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 7,205 tabled by Senator Gualdani, identical to Amendment 7,206, tabled by Senator Tarquinio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 7.207, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, up to the words "criminal" and "criminal." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 7.07 and amendments 7.208 and 7.209 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 7.210, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, up to the words "with the following words." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 7.210 and amendment 7.211 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 7.212, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators, up to the words'maximum transparency'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 7.212 and amendment 7.213 are therefore excluded. In view of the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 7.214 is impervious. Senator Comaroli, do you accept the rewording of the G7100 agenda proposed by the Government? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G7100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. On agendas G7.101 and G7.102 there is an invitation to withdraw from the Government, otherwise the opinion is against it. Senator Comaroli, do you accept the invitation to retreat? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). I insist on voting on both agendas, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G7.101, presented by Senators Comaroli and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G7 102, tabled by Senators Comaroli and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 7 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 7.0.200 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 8, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, to which I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u84	I welcome Amendment 8,200, identical to Amendments 8,201 and 8,202, and Amendment 8,203, identical to Amendment 8,204. Mr President, can I also express my opinion on Amendment 8,205, which is identical to Amendments 8,206 and 8,207? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The opinion of the 5th Commission, Senator Guerra, is missing, but you can now give your opinion. , rapporteur. On Amendment 8,205, which is identical to the following 8,206 and 8,207, the opinion would be in favour of this, but I would like to refer it back to the representative of the Government, but I would ask him to consider the possibility of proposing a slightly less stringent rewording: this is the only concern I have about these amending proposals, which are very direct. PRESIDENT. - The debate is However, we do not have the opinion of the Budget Committee and I do not see Mr Azzolini. WARRA, rapporteur. I am also in favour of amendment 8,500, which I have tabled in accordance with the requests of the 5th Commission. Similarly, the opinion is in favour of the Commission's G8.1 agenda. Finally, with regard to amendment 8.0.200, I would ask the presenter to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u85	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. With regard to Amendment 8,205 and the following two, 8,206 and 8,207, which are identical, I would like to propose a rewording, explaining also why. Of course, if the rewording is accepted, the opinion will be in favour otherwise it will remain opposed. We are talking about amendments aimed at providing for the addition of a specific delegation criterion to transpose the provisions of Directive 2014/65, which concerns the so-called ADR, the out-of-court mechanism for consumer complaints. I would like to point out that there are already provisions in this area and that the arbitration chamber at CONSOB is already in place, and that is the first element. The second is that the draft legislative decree implementing the previous directive in this matter (2013/11) on alternative dispute resolution for consumers has been examined in advance by the Council of Ministers in recent days and previews to article 1, paragraph 7, that the Bank of Italy and CONSOB, in the respective fields of competence, can with own disciplinary measures procedures of out-of-court resolution of disputes (the ADR system, in fact), in compliance with the provisions dictated by the Code of consumption in ADR matters. In order to take account of these elements, amendment 8.205 should be reworded, in order to allow the Government to exercise legislative delegation in full compliance with the European Union's regulatory framework. The rewording would be as follows: "At paragraph 1, after letter t), add the following : "t -bis" to implement Article 75 of Directive 2014/65/EU concerning the out-of-court mechanism for consumer complaints, amending, where necessary, the provisions in force on out-of-court settlement of disputes in matters governed by Legislative Decree No 58 of 24 February 1998, and ensuring coordination with the provisions of Legislative Decree No 206 of 6 September 2005 (consumer code) and with the other national provisions implementing Directive 2013/11 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on alternative resolution of consumer disputes, amending Regulation 2006/2204 and Directive 2009/22/EC.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u86	As far as this rewording is concerned, which I think is quite substantial, it must be understood whether it is accepted by the presenters; then the opinion of the 5th Commission must be obtained and distributed. Senator Cucchetti, do you accept the reformulation? MUCCHETTI (PD). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gualdani, do you agree with the proposed reformulation? Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Yeah, okay. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I do not see Senator Tarquinio, but the other signatory colleagues point out that they agree with the reformulation. The proposers therefore accept the request for reformulation, but we must obtain the opinion of the 5th Commission and distribute the relevant text to the Groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u89	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would ask you to endorse Senator Cucchetti's amendment 8,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u90	Senator Cucchetti, do you accept the signature? MUCCHETTI (PD). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 8,200, which is identical to Amendments Nos 8,201 and 8,202. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, since it is now from the first article that we automatically make this request, we are asking that votes be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Well, let's renew this practice. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,200, tabled by Senators Mucchetti and Candiani, identical to amendments 8,201, tabled by Senator Gualdani, and 8,202, tabled by Senator Tarquinio and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8203 tabled by Senator Gualdani, identical to amendment 8.204, tabled by Senator Tarquinio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 8,205, 8,206 and 8,207 are laid down in the reworded text pending the opinion of the 5th Commission. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8,500 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G8.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. At this point, we must put aside Article 8, pending the completion of the procedures for the reworded amendments. On Amendment 8.0.200 there is an invitation to withdraw; do you accept it, Senator Marino? MARINO Mauro Maria (PD). Yes, Mr President, I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u91	I am in favour of the identical amendments 11,200, 11,201 and 11,202.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u92	The Government's opinion is also favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u93	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11,200, which is identical to Amendments Nos 11,201 and 11,202. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11,200, tabled by Senator Mucchetti, identical to amendments 11,201, tabled by Senator Gualdani, and 11,202, tabled by Senator Tarquinio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 11 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 12, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u94	Mr President, with Amendment 12.0,200 we ask that the specific delegation criteria for the transposition of Directive 2014/36/EU be regulated on the basis of the Italian regions. In the South in particular, seasonal workers do not have well-established criteria, either as regards conditions or as regards trade union and social rights. The specific delegation criteria stress the need to ensure decent working conditions for seasonal workers from third countries, ensuring equal trade union and social rights for them, as well as appropriate sanctions for employers who do not comply with the content of the directive being implemented. It is therefore important that working conditions be regulated on the basis of these criteria. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u95	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u96	Mr President, I am in favour of the identical amendments 12,200, 12,201 and 12.202. I also voted in favour of the G12.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u97	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u98	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12,200, which is identical to Amendments Nos 12,201 and 12,202. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,200, tabled by Senator Mucchetti, identical to amendments 12,201, tabled by Senator Gualdani, and 12,202, tabled by Senator Tarquinio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G12.1 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 12 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.0.202, which seeks to insert an additional article after Article 12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is not supported.) Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.0.200, tabled by Senators Donno and Lezzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 13, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u99	Mr President, thank you for your permission. For us in the 5 Star Movement, Amendment 13,203 is important, because with it we call for a particular reference to the content of the environmental impact assessment, public participation in decision-making, transparency and access to information. It is necessary for the citizen to be aware of what is happening and for all operations to be carried out in complete transparency. Amendment 13,204 calls for the words "rationalisation" to be deleted, precisely because there is a very precise criterion of delegation with regard to the sanctioning system to be adopted under the directive. Amendment 13,207 provides for the public and transparent consultation, including of associations and committees of citizens resident in the territory of implementation, of projects subject to environmental impact assessment, in accordance with Directive 2014/52/EU, and of interventions, including those intended for the exploitation of soil resources, which may have an impact on the environment and the natural landscape.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u100	The illustration is his right, not a concession, senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u101	Mr President, it will take me a minute to say the following: I welcome the Government's call to withdraw Amendment 13.0.200 (text 2) which concerns exactly the issue of GMOs, provided that the Government says a clear word about another aspect: until there is a sitting in which we decide freely, as a Parliament, what kind of research we want to do and whether to allow or prohibit open research, the Government does not take any action in this regard. I say this because it seems obvious, but the obvious must be said, in some cases: that the Government does not allow its authorization, of any kind or any kind, not even those in progress, potential or future, until there is Parliament's ruling. If it were not clear yet, Parliament - or at least the Senate of the Republic - had already spoken. I shall read only two lines of the agenda that has been adopted by this House, gentlemen of the Government: To adopt the safeguard clause provided for in Article 23 of Directive 2001/18/EC and/or to take the precautionary measure provided for in Article 34 of Regulation (EC) No 1829/2003, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 54 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002, in order to protect human health, the environment and the economic and social model of the Italian agri-food sector. In the third point, it was then clearly stated: "to support and strengthen public scientific research in the agricultural and biological fields, and in the case of GMOs, in a confined laboratory environment." All this happened on 21 May 2013 and I also address my colleague, Senator Cattaneo, of whom I have great respect both for the content expressed and for the work she is doing and has done, not only as a researcher: here in the Senate on 21 May 2013, with a single vote against, the whole House, this whole House, the whole hemicycle - and I also remind my colleague Maurizio Romani and all the others - voted; we all voted exactly these words together. I say this to the Government, which should already have taken this into account and should have already introduced legislation to ensure that the Italian territory is declared no GMOs or GMOs free, or simply that it is not allowed in Italy to cultivate GMO production. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and the Senators Di Biagio, Mussini and Simeoni.]] We have already decided this, but of course we can change our mind: scientific and cultural advancement can also lead to change of opinion, but obviously I have to imagine that from 21 May 2013 to today there are new scientific evidence, so clear that we can discuss again and if anything change of opinion. In life, in fact, this is the world of research, which leads to this. I hope, therefore, that in a future sitting we will be told all the novelties and all the scientific evidence, otherwise change the opinion - and we can do so anyway - by the Parliamentary Assembly itself and by the same people in such a radical and sudden way, if the objective data have remained the same, it leads me to think that maybe there is some problem: either we did not explain well that May 21 or there are new elements that escape me, exactly two years later. I say that because I would like to be heard on this point. I am in favour of scientific research in a convincing way, and I think that the problems of humanity are solved through progress; I am a very convinced advocate of this, as we have written in this amendment. I am a convinced advocate, also and above all, of public research. We have the Agricultural Research Council (CRA), which also deals with seeds, a public institute supervised by MIPAAF. To Senator Candiani, who rightly raised the issue of seeds, I remind you that we have the CRA, our research centre that belongs to the Italian State. We are therefore in favour of this, and we are also in favour of research into GMOs, but in the laboratory or, in any case, in a protected environment. We are not willing to risk an invasion not wanted by the Italians, farmers and all our history and culture that we want to defend. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senators Campanella and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u102	Mr President, our amendment 13.0.202 is very clear and precise, simply asking the Government to continue on what has been the indications and the work done by Italy itself in Europe, which has led to the arrival of the directive which gives Member States the possibility to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territory, extending, inter alia, the reasons, from environmental to economic and social ones. This is an absolutely fundamental point, because I repeat that the choice that the country has made so far with regard to GMOs in agriculture (and Mr Ruta did well to read specifically that agenda approved unanimously by this House in 2013 when examining motions for resolutions on genetically modified crops) was first of all an economic choice to safeguard and protect our many crops. We have the Expo, which opened on May 1st, and we had the possibility that the headquarters of Milan would be chosen also by virtue of our agriculture and, therefore, a strong bond with the territory and the typicality of a product that is not approved. The choice of GMOs involves something else from the point of view of our agriculture. It means changing the agricultural model (we are talking about this in fact) and thinking of arriving at an approved model. There are very few varieties in the world, and all this because the seeds are in the hands of four large multinationals. The story of food, like that of water, concerns the future of humanity. We have so far made this choice, which has been reiterated in this House. This directive gives us today the opportunity, as a Member State, to finally be able to decide for national interest. We call for specific guiding criteria to be included in the transposition of the Directive, i.e. to extend the geographical scope of exclusion from cultivation to the whole national territory for requests for adaptation concerning the authorisation procedure and to extend to the whole national territory and to all varieties of GMOs the adoption of the prohibition measures referred to in Article 26-b (3) of Directive 2001/18/EU. [[Call the president back.]] It's okay, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u103	I'm so quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u104	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Yeah, it's okay because we're all happy. It is therefore a very specific request because I hope - at least as it seemed to us - that the Government (of course the Undersecretary of Gozi knows perfectly well) will protect the national interest. On the vexed question of before the research, I remember that, during the examination of those motions, we had a very in-depth discussion on the part of scientific research. As I said before, it's very clear what we wrote. Therefore, we also ask the Government - I hope that Secretary Gozi will hear me - to proceed with the very precise indications that Parliament has already given to the Commission. We also ask that we not be faced with measures included in a decree that would also deny the Italian positioning and the parliamentary classrooms. In fact, we have ancient traditions also in the field of research and in the field of seed and - I repeat - those can live and have a future if we certainly invest in research, but not in that GMO. Dealing with GMO varieties as new varieties says a lot about those who, in some way, cite them and propose them in terms of scientific principles. I hope that the government has been a little confused earlier in announcing the future debate, but it is clear to all that we can only ask the government to continue on the road that the Senate and the House have already set out and to continue, therefore, in the implementation of that directive. I'm really starting to finish. I would not want that, since we are in May, all this activism must lead us, perhaps, to make sure that someone can authorize the cultivation of seed in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, with all the troubles we have had and the damage to the producers of corn! [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Bignami, Cirinna and Fattori]] In fact, even open field research means that we damage our companies and our products. Then I want to see who will also pay for the economic damage of these possible bad choices. [[Applause from the Misto-MovX Group and Senator Cirinna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u107	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, I appreciate the choice, the indication, the invitation that the Government makes to us to seriously discuss the subject of scientific research in this House, because the beauty of research and life is that it evolves and that there are always new elements of knowledge. There is nothing wrong with discussing knowledge, unless we want to decide that Italy is an extraterritorial area compared to the debate in the world. Amartya Sen is very clear today, but, for goodness sake, everyone has their own opinions. Let me just say one thing: do not use the argument that this Parliament has already expressed, because, if so, it would mean that today we should say that we were right to vote for Stamina, which was a huge political mistake instead! [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] I repeat: a gigantic error clearly sanctioned by the judiciary. It is then clear that everyone has their own opinions, but I think that the willingness to confront themselves also means the security of their own opinions, keeping in security also that margin of doubt that many colleagues do not have in this case, but that I, as a poor profane, last of the last, allow myself to maintain, because the doubt is what has made science go on in the world and that has made people feel better. Otherwise, we would still be at the idea that the earth is flat and I do not think that we could proceed in this direction. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u108	Mr President, between Senator Ruta's amendment 13.0,200 and Senator De Petris' amendment 13.0,202 there is my amendment 13.0,201, so I expected to be able to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u109	You were invited to illustrate; perhaps you did not hear, Senator Fattori. However, you can explain your amendment. There is no problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u110	FACTORS (M5S). No, Mr President, I call you to order. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u111	I invited you to illustrate, Senator Fattori.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u112	FACTORS (M5S). No, Mr. President, I was very careful. But let's not get into controversy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The senators explain the amendments in the progressive order. However, I would like to make your amendment clear, without any improper intervention. FACTORS (M5S). All right, if you let me talk, I'll explain the amendment. Thank you. I agree with what has been said so far. I myself am prepared to withdraw this amendment, provided that the Government assures me that, until Parliament expresses itself differently, the old motion, the one in which we called on the Government not to authorise new GMOs and to do research exclusively in a confined environment, is true. Beyond the fact that we can change our minds, we must probably change it democratically, by voting for something new, debated and in-depth, as happened last time. It is not that, if only one person changes his mind, then somehow this Parliament must take note of it. But let's also talk a little bit about research, because here I get a lot mixed up between me and I don't understand, I'm here and I'm there. Stamina you all approved it and perhaps we were the only ones to deepen the topic: so it is better to spread a pitiful veil on Stamina. But research, ladies and gentlemen, is not necessarily research in the open field. Dr. Cattaneo herself actually said that GMOs are archaeology with respect to new research so far. I would like to refer, for example, to a new methodology for the manipulation of DNA, which is called CRISPR, which records everything that has been done so far on GMOs. It is a wonderful new discovery, published in the best scientific newspapers. I have had a very thorough discussion with a group of scientists, who have told me that all the biotechnology done so far, in view of this new technology of DNA manipulation, is archaeology. I am then perplexed by the arrogance of those who say that GMOs in the field are science. GMOs in the field are something applied to everyday life, it is not science. It's a scientific choice to a certain extent. Science can be done in the laboratory, where we can do so many things: the selection of markers or the accelerated selection as we do on phage books, since we want to talk about science. The GMOs that are on the market today are GMOs from the 1960s, 70s and 80s; they are things that no longer even have the right to exist, because they are really ancient things. If Italy wants to do science, then, it did it well, intelligently and innovatively, without necessarily planting the apple tree resistant to butterfly, maybe produced twenty years ago and that has no reason to exist anymore, because science in the meantime has gone on. So we are not talking about science, but we are talking about economic, political, agricultural and industrial choices. Let us not mystify: cultivating is not science, cultivating is economy. There are studies carried out by Reuters that show that the introduction of GMOs has not at all reduced the price of food, as many claim. Then we would also have to think whether it is appropriate to have low-priced monocultures or if instead our Italy would like to have excellent crops, perhaps more expensive, maybe to export. So let's not mess up: we're not talking about science, but we're talking about something else. We in our motion have said that it is good to do research, but this must be done in the closed field and in the controlled environment. There are environmental damage, because in the United States there are 25,000 hectares infested with plants that have become resistant to cesium. Then we don't do crazy scientists. Science is what you do in the laboratory; when you grow something, you do something different from science, you make a choice of system, economic and society. So this is the society we want for Italy? Do we want single crops with apples all the same? Or do we want to be excellent with our small pieces of land, with special crops? We're gonna keep the talk going. Do not fool us by talking about science, because this is not science: it is an important political choice that will influence our excellences for the next thirty years. Let's say things as they are, and let's not mess with them. If this government wants to make Italy a monoculture, tell us, because otherwise we are talking about one thing instead of another. If the government listens to me for a moment, if it promises me that there will be a serious debate not only on science, undersecretary Gozi, but economic, system, agronomic, then we also talk about Italian research, but that's a whole other thing, it's a whole other field. I am prepared to withdraw the amendment, provided that there is a commitment from the Government - from which I expect an answer - not to limit the debate to the scientific world, but also to extend it to the agricultural world, the economic world, the world of grassroots associations and also to citizens. I therefore withdraw my amendment 13.0.201 subject to a commitment from the Government that I expect it to respond to. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u115	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-MovX). Mr President, first of all I wanted to ask to be able to add my signature to Senator Ruta's amendment 13.0,200 and Amendment 13.0. 202 from Senator De Petris. I don't think anyone here wants to go against science and research. As Senator Ruta said, we have the CRA-CIN, which is the public agency for research and experimentation in agriculture and industrial crops, but what should worry our Italian researchers is the fact that in the spending review it was proposed to close this research plant in Rovigo precisely because of the cuts imposed by the review process. When we talk about research and in particular Italian agricultural research, we should defend this and not GMOs. It is true that everything we say today in thirty years' time can be contested, but here we are trying to clear open field research on GMOs once again when it has been done for thirty years and we have seen that it brings more damage than benefits. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u118	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, so far I have heard the word'science' quoted several times, but alas, I believe that here - and I absolutely do not want to be offensive to my fellow senators - those who actually know the subject are very few, not to say anyone. I would like to reassure Senator De Petris, who is concerned that in Friuli we can sow maize or soya, because this has already happened. I have heard, during the day, about the treatment of ready roundup plants, or better resistant to cesium, and the fact that in some way now all the weeds grow because of this use. First of all, it is not possible to cultivate roundup ready plants in Italy and consequently the selection of plants able to tolerate the use of herbicides based on herbicides is not due to the presence of a possible GMO plant, but to the continuous and constant use of a product that over time causes a selection of weeds that then, simply using a higher dosage and in any case to the limits allowed by the label, are eradicated. There is therefore a need, alas, to understand much better what we are talking about. Suffice it to say that in other European countries, however, freedom is allowed to self-regulate in the use of GMOs, when in Italy only saying no means penalising the country. It must be made absolutely clear about the typical nature of the products and their preservation, which has nothing to do with GMOs. Those fantastic fears that if a bee takes pollen and flies somewhere else, this can trigger contamination, they must be debunked, because they are absolutely not founded. Just think of an apple quality, for example fuji: if its pollen is transported from a bee to a golden apple, there is no crossing. I could almost think, alas, that we are still at levels where we believe that with the kiss you get pregnant. That's not true at all. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] If we consider the commercial aspect, just take a list of the Bologna freight exchange: soy, maize, GMO wheat from other countries cost an average of 10 percent more. But this is simply a fact and I challenge anyone to prove otherwise. Differently, however, is the problem posed by Senator Cattaneo. It's not a problem to say yes or no, that's not the subject of the fight. The subject of the struggle is also to give the possibility to public research to evaluate, with all the systems that science makes available, what is the best way to go, without setting limits, if not those dictated by serious research, where control must be absolute. This is the matter. To oppose this really means to give rise to an unacceptable obscurantism nowadays, even more so if other European countries do so. But do you know that half the surface of the United States of America is GMO? We're not talking about who knows which country. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Mr President, I shall conclude. I believe that the subject is the one that all the Presidents of the political groups present in the Senate and I don't think anyone wants to hide their hand for throwing a stone into that pond that can create knowledge for humanity. This is above all the objective that we must pursue, regardless of prejudices that must not be part of our culture, for the good of humanity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u119	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u120	I am against all the amendments to Rule 13. I am in favour of the G13.1 agenda. I call for withdrawal, otherwise I am against, on all amendments aimed at introducing additional articles after Article 13.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u121	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion. With regard to the debate that the Government has followed closely, listening to all the speeches, I would remind you that, even at the initiative of the Government, we have reached the unanimous approval of an agenda. Certainly the Government confirms that it feels fully committed and will take into account the agenda adopted by the Senate unanimously.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u122	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13,200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u125	FIXORE (PD). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 13,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u126	I take note of that. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u129	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, confident of the Government's commitment to respect the agenda and to discuss the subject in depth at scientific, economic and social level, I withdraw Amendment 13,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u132	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, given the importance of the debate, I would like to understand what the government has said it will take into account. What was approved two years ago or even today's debate? If the government has said and informed the senators that it will move respecting what was decided two years ago by this Senate, I do not believe that this is in the spirit of what we have said so far. I'd like to understand how the government expressed itself. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You call for clarification. The Undersecretary has expressed his views, if he wishes to respond to Senator Giovanardi's request, he has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u133	Mr President, today the Government took the initiative and committed itself to stimulating before the summer break a debate on a much wider issue than the European delegation law, which certainly cannot be the forum for dealing with a broad issue such as what has emerged and how the speeches have shown themselves to be. The Commission is therefore committed to presenting a position that takes account of research, which goes far beyond the specific issue of GMOs and biodiversity in food, and all the actions taken. In particular, the government refers to the functioning of the directive that we are implementing, which is very clear both in terms of the possibility of banning GMOs in individual Member States, and in terms of that compromise at European Union level, which was the fundamental issue around which we organised a negotiation that led to a European agreement that is the subject of the directive that we are implementing.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u134	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13,202, tabled by Senator Piccoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13,203, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13,204, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13,205, tabled by Senator Piccoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13,206.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u137	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make an explanation of vote because I did not expect an opinion to oppose it, since with Amendment 13,206 we have asked exactly what is already partly provided for in Directive No 52 of 2014, which harmonises the principles on environmental impact assessment (EIA) of projects, through the indication of the minimum requirements for the type of projects submitted to EIA. This Directive introduces into the old Directive No 92 of 2011 a new Article whereby Member States must avoid situations of conflict between competent authorities and purchasers. In view of the fact that there is no strong provision in our legal system in force in this area, we believe that this aspect must be dealt with in good time, precisely at the time of transposition, by providing for a proper separation of functions. Moreover, I would like to point out that we have already worked on this and Italy has intervened with Decree-Law No 91 of 2014 in order to overcome the infringement procedures n. 2046 of 2009 and n. 2170 of 2013; moreover, with the competent parliamentary committees we have also spoken with an opinion at the Government n. 137. With this amendment, we have asked for regulatory coordination simply to be provided for, so that there is no confusion in the rules. I therefore ask the Government and the rapporteur to make an effort to revise their opinion, because the amendment simply deals with what is required in Directive No 52 of 2014.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u140	WARRA, rapporteur. I would like to make it clear that that is exactly why the opinion is negative: as I have already said, the indication that I have followed in expressing the opinions is not to include in the guiding principles things that already descend, exactly, in the same terms, from the delegation. The guiding principle serves to specify how the delegation is to be implemented, where it leaves open the possibility of choice. In this case Parliament does not entirely leave this possibility to the Government, but - if it wishes - it also indicates principles. For example, with regard to a directive, you can ask the Government, on a certain point where it can make choices, to act in a certain way and delegate it to that effect. Where, however, the directive leaves no room for choice, we do not foresee any guiding principles, which reflect exactly all the points of the delegation. Therefore, in all cases where the amendments were - by choice or by personal sensitivity - mere repetitions, even textual ones, of what the delegation already prescribes, I gave a negative opinion, in order to avoid duplication.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u141	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13,206, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13,207, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G13.1 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). An invitation has been made to withdraw amendment 13.0.200 (text 2). Are you withdrawing the amendment, Senator Ruta? RUTA (PD). I'm taking him back. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.0.201, tabled by Senators Fattori and Lezzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). An invitation to withdraw was issued on Amendment 13.0.202. Do you welcome him, Senator De Petris? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I welcome the invitation, without prejudice to the commitments that have been made. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 14, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u142	Mr President, I want to turn Amendment 14,201 into an agenda, relying on your common sense and good heart. Article 14 sets out a specific guiding criterion for the exercise of the delegation, which is inherent in the transposition of Council Directive 2013/51/Euratom of 22 October 2013. This is an act laying down requirements for the protection of the health of the population with regard to radioactive substances in water intended for human consumption. However, this specific guiding principle provides for the introduction, where necessary and in line with the requirements of the Directive, of measures to protect the population which are stricter than the minimum standards laid down in that Directive, subject to compliance with the free movement of goods. I agree with that, but I also suggest adding the condition that these more restrictive measures find their justification in adequate scientific evidence. That is to say, I ask you not to be more realistic than the king, that is to say to be rigorous, as Europe demands, and to be even more realistic, if there is scientific evidence to justify it and to motivate it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u143	So Senator Fucksia has turned amendment 14.201 into an agenda, on which the rapporteur and the representative of the government will then speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u146	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that I had previously withdrawn, following a long speech, Amendment 13.0.201, which, however, was wrongly put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Fattori, we note that you had withdrawn Amendment 13.0.201.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u149	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I apologise, but for the sake of greater precision I would like to say that the amendment we are talking about is 13.0.201. Senator Fattori withdrew all the amendments referred to in Article 13; 13.0.201 was an amendment aimed at introducing an additional article, so surely there was a mistake. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The senator, however, referred to Article 13 a moment ago. It is appropriate to clarify, also for the purposes of the report of the sitting. SANTANGELO (M5S). Yes, this is Amendment 13.0.201, which had been withdrawn and which was put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u150	If you insist, Senator Santangelo, I declare void the vote on Amendment 13.0.201, which, among other things, had not been approved so, from the point of view of the text, nothing changes. [[Senator Santangelo's consent.]] I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u151	The opinion is opposed to Amendments 14,200 and 14,202. Amendment 14.201 has been turned into an agenda, on which I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u152	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur, also with regard to the agenda G14.201, of Senator Fuksia, who is therefore accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u153	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14,200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14,200, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We note that Senator Tocci did not have time to vote, certainly against, and that Senator Caliendo, due to a malfunction of the electronic system, turns out to have cast a vote against while actually his vote is in favour. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G14.201 will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 14.202, tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 15, on which an amendment has been tabled, which I would ask the presenter to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u154	Mr President, I shall withdraw Amendment No 15,200 and turn it into an agenda, the logic of which is similar to that of the previous one. Article 15 requires the adoption of measures for the protection of workers with regard to action levels and exposure limit values which are stricter than the minimum standards laid down in that Directive. The agenda aims to underline the need to carry out a preliminary impact assessment, in order to safeguard both the precautionary principle and the possibility of any serious economic repercussions, which could penalise our country compared to other European countries.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u155	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u156	I am in favour of the G15,200 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u157	The government accepts the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u158	Having been accepted by the Government, the G15,200 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 15. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 16, on which an amendment and agendas have been tabled, which are set out, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u159	On Amendment 16,200, which is deleted from the entire article, I call for a rewording, i.e. to delete only, in Article 16, paragraph 1, the engraving in compliance with the current regulatory framework. With this proposal for a rewording, the opinion is in favour. I am in favour of taking the G16,100 and G16,101 agendas. I call for the withdrawal of amendment 16.0.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u160	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u161	The proposer accepts the rewording, so we move on to the vote on Amendment 16,200 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,200 (text 2), tabled by Senator Tarquinio. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Barani added his signature to the amendment he had just adopted. The agendas of the G16,100 and G16,101 were accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u164	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would ask that the agenda be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u165	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G16.100, presented by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G16.101, presented by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 16 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). On Amendment 16.0,200 is there an invitation to withdraw, do you accept it, Senator Candiani? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr President, I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 17, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u166	Mr President, the Government is calling for Article 17 to be put aside for the time being and for it to vote first, with the rewording that I will propose, on the 17,0,300, which would be reworded with the addition, at the bottom of the text, of the following words: Accordingly, in Article 17 (1), delete point (h). Then vote on 17.0.301 and 17.0.302, reworded as follows: Consequently, in Article 17 (1), delete point (g).', in order to ensure that the text is properly coordinated.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u167	We need the opinion of the 5th Commission on a number of amendments. Mr Azzolini, I would ask you whether you are able to provide us with them, otherwise we will put them aside.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u168	President. - The next item is the report (Doc. Since technical reports have been requested, we will be able to do so in the sitting tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u169	Therefore, do you need to convene the Commission and then express opinions on these amendments to Article 17? Mr Azzollini (AP (NCD-UDC)). Of course, ma'am. However, since there are several rewordings, I would ask that the texts be sent immediately to the 5th Commission to ensure that the opinions are ready tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u170	At this point we have several proposed amendments which will have to be assessed in the light of the opinion of the Budget Commission. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u173	SERRA (M5S). Mr President, I rise to ask the answer to question 3-01001, which I have tabled, concerning a specific area of Sardinia, which involves land bordering the municipalities of Furtei, Segariu and Serrenti, whose hills have been involved in mining processes since the 1990s. I ask for an answer from the Minister. [[Applause from Senator Mangili.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u174	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u176	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to a case of public order in Sardinia concerning the municipal administration of San Vero Milis (Province of Oristano), which decided last summer to close the motorized traffic of the seafront of the seafront of San Vero Milis, connecting Putzu Idu and Mandriola, an important connecting artery used by tourists and workers. After formally promising, by resolution, a referendum to allow consultation of the people's will on the same decision, the administration has incredibly changed its mind by preventing citizens from expressing themselves. The project, highly contested by the residents, provides for the so-called renaturalization of Putzu Idu, that is the elimination of the asphalt section made over thirty years ago, where there were parking spaces, and of the wall that separates the beach from the road. A project for lots, dotted and motivated as useful and defensive for coast and beach, but on which there is no serious study that proves it. On the contrary, according to inhabitants and environmentalists, it would pose a risk to the delicate ecosystem existing with the saline adjacent. The first lot involves a use of 130,000 euros from the funds of the Camp Project to dismantle 250 meters of asphalted promenade realized (the last before Mandriola), and replace them with a system of catwalks. In order to remedy the inconvenience of the lack of such coastal road, the administration had proceeded to realize a small road, called red road, adjacent and substitute of the seafront now closed to traffic and located in the area. This artery, unpaved, among other things, with dangerous material and of dubious origin, has been realized and is currently under investigation by the court of Oristano. In recent days there has been a demonstration in which police forces have intervened in the riot raid: there has even been a woman injured. I would like to point out this case in order to activate those who are responsible, ensuring that situations of this kind are resolved in a different way from the intervention of the police in the riot zone and, above all, that they do not happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u179	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, Mr Zin's speech today prompts me to speak, particularly from a phrase by Lorenzin, who, referring to Beppe Grillo's speech on mammography and drugs, said that his statements are a concentration of dangerous misinformation. (...) All the data and scientific evidence tell us that the most effective weapon, sometimes the only one, to defeat cancer is prevention. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would like to add that the definition of prevention is as follows: the set of actions aimed at intervening or reducing the risk, i.e. the probability of unwanted events such as cancer. So, from the semantic point of view, Lorenzin's phrase is a misinformation, because it should have talked about secondary prevention. Because we know that mammography is an early diagnosis and therefore not, by definition, a primary prevention. These are two very different concepts, which I am surprised that a minister does not know. In all the speeches that have been made, however, no one has remembered that in order to make a mammography in many parts of Italy women wait many months. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Another concept I wanted to explain, just talking about Veronesi, is what it means for science to expose something: in fact, one thing is true or false not according to the affirmation of the individual scholar, but only when validated by a plural community of free and independent authors, without conflicts of interest. In this case, any financing of companies in industry, often hidden, will affect the neutrality of choices, as has unfortunately happened in the past. I would like to mention, for example, the problem of asbestos or tobacco, things that have been known for fifty years and that would have saved many deaths and pains, but also current situations, such as genetic mutations from fossil fuels, sweeteners in food or electromagnetic fields, whose effects will be on our health in a few years' time. I would like to remind you that recently an authoritative international magazine such as the "British medical journal" has decided to entrust its editorials, in which the state of the art of specific knowledge is made, to authors who have not had any kind of relationship with the industries. This is to say how current it is and how the research professionals themselves perceive the problem posed by Grillo. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that no one is going to denigrate Professor Veronesi, unlike what Mr Zin said. However, I would like to remind you that Professor Veronesi, in an authoritative television show, made with his finger a clear sign to exemplify that nothing came out of the incinerators: on the part of one who in 2007 brought to international conferences photos of malformed children, in whose various organs were present nanoparticles, is really a blasphemy. Why, then, did an authoritative scientist like Professor Veronesi deny that kind of thing? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] There are two cases: didn't you know the nanoparticles? No way. Or perhaps because too many sponsors include companies that make those very polluting plants? Perhaps this should be remembered. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Honesty! Honesty.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u182	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, colleagues rightly feel quite outraged, as well as we feel outraged at the journalistic inquiry published this morning on "Il Fatto Quotidiano" concerning the illegal dumping of toxic waste from Bussi, which I return to this House, after a colleague has already indicated it to me. It is an article that, because of the seriousness of its contents, can only arouse two specific feelings in us: indignation and shame. We didn't even read the acts and the evening before at dinner we were told not to recognize the dole, because Montedison herself would take everything away from us: this is the confidence of two popular judges of the trial that saw as accused 19 people, mostly former Montedison executives, last December 17, when the defendants were acquitted at first instance for the crime of poisoning of the waters that drink citizens; for the crime of environmental disaster, instead, there was a derubrication in manslaughter disaster, which was then prescribed. These events, on the contrary, were well known and have been concealed and deliberately concealed for decades. At the vacuum for the injustice suffered by the decision of December, a feeling of indignation was replaced today among the citizens of Val Pescara, discovering that the turn of the institutions and the judiciary was practically wanted. Apart from the discussions on this matter, it is a matter of polluted waters in the Lower Tyrolean area, which cannot be ignored: 700,000 people have used poisoned water, which has caused a considerable increase in pathologies. We've never been guaranteed serious clean-up operations. There is no screening for that population. There have been no adequate measures to eliminate the risk that the leachate will continue to pollute the water. And today we read the confessions of the popular judges. This is a really bad day for the country, for justice and institutions. We expect, and we ask, a position in the courtroom also of the local administrators involved and we expect a state at the service of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u185	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, in San Piero a Grado in the province of Pisa there is the Centre for Military Applications (CISAM), equipped with laboratories and experimental equipment, such as a nuclear research reactor. CISAM appears to be managed by the Military Navy Staff. On the site of the Regional Agency for Environmental Protection Tuscany, it appears that at the end of the eighties the dismantling (decommissioning) of the plant began with the treatment and packaging of radioactive waste and the checks, aimed at the release of both solid and liquid waste, as well as of the site, without radiological constraints. CISAM also hosts the Defence Administration's radioactive waste storage facility. The management of this nuclear material is the responsibility of the Defence Administration and is subject to the regulation of nuclear safety and health protection. In 2014, the Authority for Electricity, Gas and Water submitted to the Government and Parliament a report on the cost of securing radioactive waste that is not relevant to the current perimeter of the nuclear burden, which shows that it will flow into the national repository for radioactive waste, which should be carried out, both nuclear-related waste and non-nuclear waste, including waste produced by other activities, such as those of health origin, and also related to the Ministry of Defence and stored at the temporary storage facility of San Piero a Grado. In this case, not all the costs of carrying out and managing the national deposit can, according to the Authority, be charged to the tariff component A2 at a loss: those related to other activities, to be clearly determined in a residual way with respect to the nuclear charges, must, in fact, be financed from the tariff component A2 only as a down payment. These radioactive waste, so-called from other activities, including those pertaining to the Ministry of Defence, should, according to estimates, be around 40% of the total waste that should flow into the national repository. As the realization of the national repository sensitive to the populations that will be involved in the process of identifying the areas with a transparent localization procedure, it is appropriate to know how much radioactive waste, including those of the Italian military hospitals produced by the Administration of Defense, where it is disposed and if it corresponds to the truth that in the national deposit of radioactive waste could also be disposed definitively of radioactive waste produced by activities pertaining to the Ministry of Defence. The above arguments have been dealt with in the act of inspection union 4-03527, for which the competent Ministers are asked to respond. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u186	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-449.ana.u187	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.36.
