ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 9 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 12 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:02 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u4	The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 19 and 20 March 2015 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u5	Mr President, kind senators, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for saying hello to Senator Casson in a flying manner.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u6	We salute him, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u7	[[Applause.]] Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. I do not want to put party issues in this House, but I would like to apologise to you and the Presidency for the slight delay. This is the first session of this House devoted to the work of the European Council since December. The European Council had another informal moment in February, but the last formal meeting, then preceded by a parliamentary debate, was that of December. I would like to ask each of you whether it does not find a profound difference between the climate in which we breathed on the European Union and in the relationship between Italy and the European Union in December and what we are breathing now. Why do I say that? I try to put in line some elements of objective change, in some cases I dare say dramatic. From December to today, in fact, none of us can pretend to ignore, and we wouldn't even want to do so, what happened on January 7 in the editorial staff of "Charlie Hebdo" first, in the heart of the Jewish presence in Paris and then in the march of January 11, where perhaps for the first time in years there was a concrete gesture and a presence of people who reflected on European identity. These were very serious and very serious international phenomena, therefore, not only in France: I am thinking of what continues to happen at international level, but also of what has happened in the heart of Europe, in other countries, from Belgium to Denmark. The second point of profound change at national level is the progress of reforms. We were discussing the stability law in December and the parliamentary debate on the European Council somehow interrupted the work that the Senate and the House were carrying out on that measure. This law was followed by the second reading of constitutional reform and electoral law, but also by the start of work in the Senate on the reform of public administration, the provision on the civil liability of magistrates, the initiatives we have put in place on jobs act. The idea is that in these three months, however, even if there are different sensibilities, opinions and votes, the Parliament of the Italian Republic has broken that spell that seemed to block it in a substantial situation of stalemate, and I see no more symbolic element in this sense that the election of the President of the Republic, which happened for the second time in a two-year period, which is an unpublished case (the first time happened in the sixties) in the republican system, but which has shown that there is a Parliament that is in a position to make the necessary choices. Then of course everyone can make their own assessments and discuss whether or not those choices share them, but this is another speech. The third and last point of novelty compared to the December work last year is the economic theme in the relationship with Europe. I also remember the critical remarks, in addition to the positive ones, of the December debate, but in all there was a strong feeling that Europe was being put to the test, finally, with respect to the direction of economic policy. It ended the semester, we closed it formally on 13 January, the same day that the European Commission approved the communication on flexibility and the Juncker plan, in a symbolism that I believe goes far beyond the mere coincidence of time, and if I put in line five factors of objective recovery that are being recorded in our country, I see that four of these derive from European choices and one from a contingent factor, independent of our will. The four European choices are certainly the Juncker plan, the communication on flexibility, the QE of the European Central Bank and, connected (and I would like to say as a result of these three), the rediscovered relationship between the dollar and the euro on conditions that are more logical and even more economically sustainable. These four factors depend on European economic policy. I would also like to say to those who do not agree with the Government's choices that it cannot be denied that the Italian semester of the European Presidency, causing a change of vocabulary, where before the centrality was on the issues of rigour and austerity rather than growth and reforms, has allowed to create a climate in which it was finally possible to turn the page. These four factors, which are not decisive, but very important for our growth and restart, are accompanied by a fifth, on which we have nothing to claim, if not a little 'good luck (although, of course, it depends not on luck but on complicated geopolitical reasons), which is the change in the price of oil, the lowering of that price. These are the five characteristics, four of which are the fruit of our initiative and a fruit of good luck, which have joined the choices of the law of stability, which thanks to you, kind senators and honourable senators, has been approved, which specifically involve a great deal of attention to the reduction of taxes for those who have an income less than 1,500 euro net (the operation of 80 euros, which, in spite of and with good peace of those who did not believe, has become reality)... SANTANGELO (M5S). Stop! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. But alongside this, there has been an operation, which I believe to be particularly significant, of reducing the weight of the tax wedge for companies, especially the incentive to take on indefinitely. Linked to the entry into force of the jobs act, this measure is bringing the country's first signs of restart. We believe that these signals are still timid, that they can be further enhanced and that they must be at all costs included in an even stronger choice of European economic policy. That is why the Council of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow will be first and foremost for us a moment of verification and restart, with even more determination, on the issues of economic policy and the restart of our continent. It is important to stress, however, that there has been an objective change of climate, as well as a change of pace, and precisely this change of climate and pace leads the European Council to discuss economic choices together with three other major issues, which I quote very quickly, apologizing to you and thanking the Presidency for allowing the slight advance of the session because in a few hours I will have the pleasure and the honour to meet the Secretary-General of the United Nations (who has already arrived) to address at least two of the three issues that I am going to list: energy policy, the Ukrainian affair and the Libyan affair. On energy policy you will remember that since the first meeting of the European Council, this Government stressed the need for our country not only to invest in the traditional backs of energy investment, but also to put at the center of our commitment and our activity the relationship with Africa; therefore, the relationship with new markets and new hubs of gas and oil production, putting it in a framework of greater bet on the part of our continental level on internal interconnections. Of this - the senators will certainly be informed and attentive - we discussed during the presentation of the October European Council, in particular the internal discussions between France and Spain on this single point. Progress has been made, but in my opinion it is not enough. What must be presented, and in some way defended, at the European Council on Thursday and Friday is, in my view, a united look at energy policy. In fact, there is a risk that the five points on which Jean-Claude Juncker's ambitious programme in energy policy is based, namely the strengthening of security of supply, the theme of the internal market, diplomacy in relation to climate change, energy efficiency and research and technological innovation, will not be addressed as a whole, but will be broken down, in particular by a part of the countries - I am referring, without too many words, especially the Baltic and Eastern countries - who imagine that they will focus almost exclusively on the issues of security of supply and not include in a broader reasoning what we need. The position of Italy, therefore, must be very strong, in my opinion, on the need to insist on the points that President Tusk will first place us, with regard to the strengthening of security, and to include in this reasoning the renewed African centrality and the relationship with the Mediterranean. Alongside this, however, it must also be pointed out with determination that the Paris meeting of December 2015 cannot only be formal, that energy efficiency must also be an added value for the creation of new jobs, in the logic of the green jobs we have talked about several times, and that, from the point of view of research and technological innovation, Europe must be at the forefront. The first issue, therefore, that of energy efficiency, will be addressed since the debate on Thursday afternoon. The second issue, which concerns Ukraine, will be addressed at dinner, together with the issues of the Eastern Partnership (the Riga meeting of 21 and 22 May). I will not spend too many words, except to put formally to the attention of this Parliament and this Senate of the Republic the choice that the Italian administration has made, that it is not only to try to support - as is right, right, logical and, I would say, important to make - the efforts, led by France and Germany, together with the Ukrainian Presidency, with Petro Poroshenko, and that of the Russian Federation, with Vladimir Putin, so that the Minsk Protocol becomes the lighthouse of all kinds of activity and also the point of reference, I would say indispensable and crucial, of the work we are doing. Indeed, the commitment to demand respect for the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine - and, vice versa, the strong involvement of the Ukrainian Government in a process of institutional and constitutional reforms in its own country, with particular reference to the local autonomy of the East - saw us at the beginning of March, first in Kiev, then in Moscow, also in order to give a message of renewed trust and hope, in a path that, at international level, has many examples of good practices also to be taken as a reference. I want to say this here, because we have also talked about this with some senators, as well as with those directly concerned: the South Tyrol model, which has been put to the attention of the debate on more than one occasion, including in Europe, is particularly interesting in identifying an agreement that respects a reform process and, at the same time, the protection of minorities. It may be one of the advanced points of reference for the reform process undertaken by the Poroshenko Government. Alongside this, there is the strong and very significant objective of the European Union to continue with the six Eastern Partnership countries, but the meeting in Riga, which will mark its path and its continuation, will certainly find other moments of deepening both in this House and in the Commission. Finally, on the third and final point, before a final political consideration: there is the issue of Libya. I believe that in these three months our objective has been to remove the Libya dossier - forgive me the somewhat bureaucratic image - from the last place of the pile of international politics to give it value and importance. That dossier, in fact, is not simply about immigration to Italy, which is rightly a sensitive issue for us, for our territorial communities and for our electorates, but which - let me say this - is not the crucial and key point. The Libyan issue goes far beyond the mere question of immigration, which must be managed, coordinated, controlled and cared for in a profoundly different dimension than what has been done: we have seen it through the efforts we have made both in the last European Council and in taking responsibility, with Operation Triton, also by the other partners of our continental institutions. In Libya we are playing a game that goes beyond the size of immigration and therefore does not only concern Italy. That was our position. The emergence of fractions, of militias that refer to ISIS is not simply a worrying element because it can affect - we will see in what way - the increase of the phenomena of delinquency and, in some cases, even, as we have already had - alas - to verify, of terrorism (the reference to what happened to Derna or more probably to Sirte with the 21 Egyptian Coptic Christians killed in the barbaric way that we know is anything but random), but the central point is that either the international community puts on its working table the issue of extremism, also linked to Africa, starting from the Mediterranean at the risk of Libya, or its will still be a short-sighted gaze. These days I have received the President of Congo-Brazzaville and I have met a number of African delegations. Together with Minister Gentiloni, Minister Alfano, Minister Pinotti, together with the action of intelligence and the Services, we continue to monitor constantly what is happening within Africa. But Africa is a place that still has little centrality in the international debate, and we must recover our role as a bridge over the Mediterranean, as a link in many aspects; we must recover that dimension also ideal that much of the political and sociological literature has highlighted as one of the characteristics of our country in order to return centrality to Italian and European foreign policy. That is why, when we talk about Libya, and we will do it on Friday morning, ours is not simply a cry of alarm: "Help us, we need immigration" ().It is not simply this, because if it were simply this, it would be reductive. Ours is a demand for the centrality of politics in the Mediterranean and Africa that still needs today to presumably identify new solutions. I'd just like to take a ride on this one. I really have run out of time and so I want to end with a political consideration. The work we have done this year, starting from our first visit to Tunisia, and then to Algeria, the renewed relationship with Egypt, which has also seen further contacts in these hours, is the sign of a strategic plan that we want to put in place: that of having in the Mediterranean no longer the extreme periphery of Europe, but the heart of the very identity of our continent and, if you will allow me, of the DNA of what we are and of what we want to be. I have finished by saying that the four points of discussion (of the economy I told you, then energy efficiency, Ukraine and Libya) will see in these two days a series of very important and significant appointments. However, I find that not so much the climate of confidence of Italians in the economic situation has changed (this seems to me to be a well-established and acquired fact), but that the figure has changed compared to Italy's ability to affect European processes and the policy of affecting Italian processes. For this I would like to thank you, kind senators and honourable senators, for this bet, the bet to restore centrality to politics, has seen on different sectors and with the expression of legitimately different opinions, a common closeness on the part of all those who represent the national community: the idea that politics could finally do its part to change things. It is happening within our Parliament with the work on the reforms that I referred to at the beginning of my speech, but it is also happening for Italy in Europe. When they tell you that the five factors of economic change to which we have referred are all independent of our will, they lie; they lie knowingly lie: they are the fruit, four out of five (because intellectual honesty has led me to exclude, as is right, right and logical, the oil question from this bouquet of initiatives that we have done), the ability that Italian policy has had to change European policy. Does that mean we can stop? Absolutely not. I take this opportunity to say that the process of reform that started with this parliamentary term seemed difficult. This legislature seemed to have been born with more problems than opportunities and many thought it would end without a clear step forward. It is a welcome opportunity for me to say that, if something has changed, we owe it first of all to you, the senators and honourable senators, but also to those who allowed, at that time, an effort of generosity and who for the first time I find in this House in the new capacity of senator, namely the President emeritus of the Republic, Giorgio Napolitano, to whom my gratitude goes and I believe that of all Italians. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), FI-PdL XVII and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u8	I note that any motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u9	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the meeting of the European Council will also have on the agenda the foreign policy issues that have been mentioned and I would like to address them. There is a maximum attributed to Trotsky: You may not show any interest in the war, but sooner or later the war will definitely interest you. In other versions, the words'strategy', 'history', 'international policy' are quoted in the bar, but the sense does not change: no matter how disinterested one may be about conflicting dynamics close to and far away, these end sooner or later to concern us directly, especially in today's world and for our country. One of the historical constants that are destined to weigh in any internal and international context and that affect the orientations of the Italian foreign policy is precisely our condition of vulnerability and insecurity towards the outside, because of the weak settling of the two obliged sides of the Italian foreign policy (the Balkan peninsula and the southern shore of the Mediterranean), and also towards the inside, where the vulnerability is the product of the periodic re-emergence of the political and institutional weaknesses of a state without force. In other words, the difficult geostrategic position in the Mediterranean and the weak national identity have always conditioned the credibility of our foreign policy and the anchoring of bilateral alliances or alliance systems with stronger actors has, in many ways - and continues to be - constituted the answer to this condition of insecurity. It is worth remembering that, especially today, we Italians should not ignore that we live in the most dangerous place in the world, on the borders with the Third World War, to quote Pope Francis or the king of Jordan and many actors of the Middle East. A war in which the Arab-Islamic world is the epicenter, which is largely a civil war, which is being deployed in the Arab-Islamic world along the traditional lines of fracture between Shiites and Sunni and along unpublished lines. As our colleague Mr Tonini said, we must note that the era of the omnipotence of the West is over, that we cannot be decisive, but only useful; we must note that we have the right to defend ourselves from the fire in order to prevent it from spreading to us and devouring us too; we must do so by strengthening transatlantic solidarity and European integration. The fact is that the international system built after the Second World War is now unrecognizable. Its transformation has been triggered by economic globalization, it has been marked by an unprecedented transfer of wealth and economic power as to the size, speed and direction that is taking place between the West and the East of the world. In conjunction with this great change between nation states, the influence of non-state actors, the world of business, crime, religious organizations and tribes continues to grow. The transition between the old and the new order - which is still in formation - will not be without risks, also because Europe struggles to maintain robust growth rates and it is not assumed that it can overcome the economic and social challenges caused by demographic decline, starting from a very rooted welfare that we are no longer able to support as before. Above all, in this context, we must take advantage of the positive factors of the Minsk agreement on the conflict in eastern Ukraine, in which the heavy clashes have stopped and the exchange of prisoners has enabled us to restart a subtle thread of dialogue between the parties on the ground. I must say, President Renzi, that your recent trip to Moscow has been articulated in a diplomatically impeccable sequence. It was good for the Government to recover the role of traditional mediator that Rome plays in the tensions between East and West. It was right to maintain a privileged bilateral relationship with Russia as a guarantee for the defence of our interests, not only in the field of security, but also in the field of energy and trade. I must not forget that the Russian market has a value of EUR 10 billion for Italian exports, which fell by 12% last year, not only because of Russian counter-sanctions, but also because of the financial crisis, the devaluation of the rouble, as a result of Western sanctions. I must not recall that, despite the sanctions, Italy remains the fourth trading partner and that since the visit to Moscow Italian companies bring home agreements in the field of aviation, space, energy, industrial; I must not remember that one of the most difficult nodes of the negotiations will be the autonomy of the pro-Russian regions and our country can boast, as you mentioned, a good practice, that of the autonomy of South Tyrol, that of the eastern border: one of the central components of the tragedies of the eastern border is precisely that national conflict that for almost a century has opposed Italians to Slovenians and Croatians. Also with regard to the Libyan crisis, which today represents one of the main challenges for the international community that risks conditioning the stability and security of the entire Mediterranean region, there is the need to find allies in the UN. Italy has supported the process of inclusive dialogue, sponsored by the United Nations, which started in Geneva from the very beginning with determination, including in Europe, and has marked a new stage in Morocco in recent days. A peaceful and lasting settlement of Libya can only result from a political agreement between the parties and not from a new external military intervention, which would lead to new disruptions and very fragile balances. Russia continues to be the protagonist of any international action. In view of the delicacy of the Libyan scenario, Russia can play a direct role both in support of regional powers involved in the crisis, primarily Egypt of General Al-Sisi, and in greater involvement for the stability of the great Middle East and against the Islamic State in Syria and Iraq, and in the negotiations on Iranian nuclear. It is to be hoped that this report will really work again, both for business and for security in the Mediterranean. We know that there is no other way out for the Arab-Islamic world than an Arab-Islamic way to democracy, freedom, the incompressible rights of people and peoples and our bilateral, multilateral diplomacy and our international cooperation can only have this horizon. Mr President, our future is necessarily linked to that of our European partners, and it is precisely from this awareness, from this common destiny that the process of European integration must be restarted with greater determination. This is the heart of our identity that you mentioned, a Mediterranean heart that can allow our continent to find a space in a world that has changed in a whirlwind way. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator Zeller.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u10	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the representation of the cultural theater association "The Comedians" in Ravanusa, in the province of Agrigento, which is attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this useful opportunity to reflect together on the state of the Union. It is useful because, if some economic problems seem to be reduced in Europe today, the same cannot be said for those policies. To capture your attention, I will start by using the image of dinosaur Europe; to keep your attention - if I can - advance that I will end by talking about Greece. There is a theory that the fall on the earth of a gigantic asteroid would burn large forests, causing the end of dinosaurs. On Europe, more or less in the last quarter of a century (a time that in the historical sense is minimal), a conglomerate made up of four phenomena all together has fallen, in a fundamental and sometimes deadly sequence: enlargement, globalisation, the euro and the crisis. It is perhaps from here, from this sequence, that one must and can start to understand what happened, what happens, what will happen in Europe. With regard to enlargement, for half a century Europe had only one economic dimension; it was with the fall of the Berlin Wall that history resumed its course and that is how Europe came out of its initial economic perimeter to enter a new, albeit experimental, by attempts, and progressive ideological and political dimension. The legal dimension is always fundamental as a marker of ideological and political dimensions. A few years ago, to the question of whether the national Constitutional Court or the European Constitutional Court were more important, everyone would have replied: the national court. The opposite is clear to everyone today. The new constitutional pyramid is not an evil in itself, but it poses enormous divisive problems on the common constitutional core values of the Union. Are they still those of our historical tradition or are they the ones that, in very fast evolution, pushing to the extreme and trying to look at the future on life and on costume, are elaborated by our courts in Luxembourg and Strasbourg? In fact, rather than looking to the future, these often bring us back to the pre-Christian and pagan past. Let me be clear: Eliogabalo, with his set of values and his lifestyle, would very well stand up for himself in the court of Luxembourg. As far as globalisation is concerned, it is not Europe that has entered globalisation but globalisation that has entered Europe and found it unprepared. While the perfect market is being built in Europe, from the outside it is pressing much more and different: perfect monopolies, command economies, sovereign funds and many other instruments that systematically tend to displace us. Let us not forget that we are 7 percent of the population, 25 percent of the production, but even 50 percent of the welfare debt. As far as the euro is concerned, for the first time in history there appears to be a currency which is dissociated from both gold and sovereignty: currency without governments, governments without money. It was said, "Set their portfolios, you will have their hearts." The effect that is being produced today is slightly different from what was thought: printing money as it is today only used to buy time. As has been wisely written, a crisis caused by finance is not solved by using paper switches of the same nature as those that caused it. In any case, if what is happening for now is not bad, we must consider what is happening and can happen from outside, starting with American rates. We must not forget that they are the United States of America, and we are still the divided states of Europe. Finally, there is the crisis. The crisis was not foreseen, it was not written in the treaties, where you do not find the word crisis. All ideology is positive and progressive, typically European. International treaties are like marriages: usually in good and bad luck. The European treaties are only in good luck, where good is the rule, evil - the crisis - the exception not foreseen. This has led us to try to manage the crisis, in recent years, empirically and with a last but not least dramatic attempt, as has been the case with Greece. The problem is not that Greece has entered Europe, but that Europe has entered Greece. The causes of the crisis are not, as some say, related to the obscure and opaque Greek public budget, almost négligeable entité. The real drama about Greece came from the private finance side, and from the euro. In a dimension of euphoria, since 2002, a huge flow of capital has gone to credit, from European banks to Greek society, so cheerfully financing Olympics, swimming pools and cars (these not precisely made in Greece) and various illusions. For a decade the joy has been bilateral, on the debtor side but also on the creditors side that collected huge flows of active interest. Fatally, the crisis has come. You see, according to the laws of the market economy, creditors also fail if they fail. In the case of Greece it was the opposite. This is how the aid to Greece, which is also generously granted by us, has helped everyone, especially the German and French banks that are the creditors of Greece, all except the Greeks. After European care, Greek public debt rose, Greek GDP fell. And yet, in a compulsive way, from Europe they are asking Greece for more privatisations, more liberalisations; looking at the present conditions of the Greek people, such interventions would not even ask Margaret Thatcher! Greece: a region of Europe where more history has always been produced than is consumed on the spot and therefore exported. What has happened in Greece in recent years, first as an illusion made in Europe and then as a depression, does not only affect Greece: it directly affects the rest of Europe. In 1955, in Athens, and in Athens, Albert Camus gave an extraordinary lesson on the future of European civilization. Today Europe can only have a future of civilization if it stops running out on the calculation of interest rates. It will really have a future, Europe, only if it regains the intensity and moral value that have been inherent in its original political spirit. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI), FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut and Senator Casini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u13	Mr President, first of all, since the President-in-Office of the Council has spoken of very nice senators, I would like to tell him that I will not be kind at all; I may be polite, unlike what you are doing, that you do not even listen to me, but, for this reason too, I will be extremely rude. [[Brusio.]] I ask you to listen to me, President Renzi, thank you! Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to hear your words, it would seem that Europe's problem is traffic because you have spoken of the great news with which you will be presenting yourself at this summit. But you know what the real news is, what are the real news these days? We only have confirmations because this morning, in this House, you may not have noticed this, but there is a lack of a Minister: this is something new which, more than anything else, is a confirmation. The news is that two days ago Antonio Gozzi, President of Federacciai, was arrested: this is the novelty that we bring to Europe. I tell you this because the European Partnership Summit has, among its objectives, to pursue and extend its political model and to promote some of its values in Eastern Europe. The promotion of human rights, the rule of law and democracy is seen as a significant objective together with the promotion of the market economy, sustainable development and good governance. The question we should ask ourselves is: if we are to export a political model to these emerging Eastern European countries, what is the political model that you intend to export? What is our contribution to this European summit? Surely these premises are not good. I now come to the specific questions relating to foreign affairs. With regard to the issue of Ukraine, the Movement has always been against the imposition of sanctions against the Russians - who have caused damage to the Italian economy - and, recognizing the importance of the principle of self-determination of the peoples, is in favour of the secession of Crimea and its referendum. Hence the commitment to promote a more active and collegiate role on the part of the European Union in the Ukrainian crisis, including through the High Representative, and to propose, as announced by the President of the Tusk European Council, the lifting of economic sanctions imposed on Russia as they have proved ineffective and counterproductive. Who gains from these sanctions to Russia and who loses most of them? Europe, with reliable estimates of about $14 billion a year, especially in the agri-food sector. Among other things, these sanctions will have no effect because Moscow's main interlocutors will be countries such as Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Azerbaijan, all major producers of agri-food resources. As far as the Libyan situation is concerned, our proposal is to wait for the evolution of the situation and, later, to form a Libyan Government that is of union and true representation of all the ethnic groups present in the country. Since the time at my disposal is running out, I close my speech with a suggestion that I may give you: dear President Renzi, dear president "pocket" Renzi, on the journey he is about to undertake be careful of the wolves. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u14	Senator Tomaselli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, one of the issues you have addressed and which will be at the heart of the Council of Europe in the coming days is energy: a decisive issue for Europe which wants to become a continent where energy is free to cross borders, increasing its efficiency and reducing its dependence on foreign countries, including through the diversification of sources (a widely shared objective) and accelerating the process of completing the single energy market. The objective of integrating 28 national systems into the Old Continent is the world's leading area of renewable energy sources, as has been argued by many parties, the most ambitious European project since the time of the Community for coal and steel. Indeed, the European energy system is faced with the increasingly pressing need to ensure secure, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy for families and businesses. The excessive dependence on a limited number of sources of supply, especially for natural gas, makes many countries vulnerable to supply disruptions, often linked to geopolitical turbulence. The same prospects for recovery of growth, after these long years of recession, are likely to be hampered by the persistent obstacles to the effective integration of the energy market, the lack of coordination of national policies and the absence of a common position with regard to the countries supplying raw materials. In recent months, with the agreement on the 2030 targets, which are even more ambitious for energy and climate policies, and on the European energy security strategy, important steps have been taken towards energy union, but now concrete and clear measures are needed to meet the challenges facing us and we hope that the Council of Europe in the coming hours will be decisive in this direction. The geopolitical situation at the gates of the European Union, characterised by constant tension around the supply of gas from the East, shows us that Europe must remain united and commit itself to reducing dependence on external energy suppliers. At present, the European Union is the world's largest importer of raw materials for energy production, importing around 53% of the energy consumed and often some countries depend on a single main supplier: a global cost to the old continent of around EUR 400 billion per year. It is no coincidence that wholesale electricity and gas prices are 30% and 100% higher, respectively, than those in the United States of America. Diversification of sources and suppliers is therefore an essential tool to improve the security of our energy supply and a great option to be autonomous from a geopolitical and international point of view. The aim is to invest in research and in the construction of new storage and transport infrastructures precisely to meet the objective of diversification, as in the case of investments related to the TAP pipeline: an infrastructure that is made even more strategic by the Ukrainian and Libyan crises and the need to loosen the dependence on Russian gas, as well as the international Resiko of the big pipes and the stop to the South Stream project. The objective of security can also be achieved by exploiting the energy mixes now adopted by various countries and therefore by investing in a robust way on the electricity interconnections between Member States for the cross-border exchange of electricity. Consider, for example, production overcapacity - Italy is among these countries - and the need, therefore, for further measures to consolidate market integration. A modern, efficient and intelligent European energy network is expected to generate savings of up to EUR 40 billion per year. Here the idea of a European Energy Union that goes far beyond security of supply and formal coordination of the production capacities of the individual countries is coming back. This is a new perspective which calls for a new supranational regulation and a modern governance of the European energy system with a view to integration and subsidiarity. Finally, the objectives of an energy union based on the ever more structural spread of renewable energy in an energy system that fully assumes, even in view of the December meeting in Paris, the objective of sustainability should be recalled. The emission reduction target of at least 40% can contribute primarily to the Juncker Commission's choices to boost growth, increase competitiveness and create new jobs for EU citizens. The realistic objective is to improve our energy security and resource efficiency while promoting green growth and competitiveness, encouraging low-carbon investments, increasing demand and revenues for industrial sectors producing low-carbon technologies and creating green jobs in new growth sectors such as engineering, basic manufacturing, means of transport, construction and business services. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in recent years Italy has consolidated its own energy policy based on energy efficiency, infrastructure, in particular innovative ones such as renewables and security, and diversification of supplies. Thanks to the infrastructure choices launched, Italy is now running for real and concrete - after having claimed it for years - to become the gas hub for the Mediterranean Europe that we have been talking about for a long time. For these reasons, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our country is strongly interested in the development and affirmation of the Energy Union. We are sure that the commitment and determination of the Italian Government will be decisive, already in the next few hours, in order to build this ambitious objective with concreteness and speed. [[Applause from the PD Group and from the government benches]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that the words you have spent are acceptable both as regards, on the one hand, the role that Italy must play at European level, and as regards the international situation that it has outlined, characterized by uncertainty and an unprecedented turbulence since the end of the Cold War, Last week, as a member of the Italian delegation, I took part in the committees of the NATO Summit in the United States. I was even more convinced here of the role Europe is called to play today in the conflicts that cross the world because, being surrounded, it must find a union of intents and a political compactness necessary to become a mediation force between the United States and Russia, on the one hand, and exercise an even stronger role than the tragedies that affect the Mediterranean. On the other hand, Europe today is divided about its attitude towards Russia and this does not help to relax relations. In particular, the countries of the former Warsaw Pact press for NATO to pursue a more aggressive policy, while Western countries, including ours, are more cautious and seek the path of dialogue. Nor does it help the situation in Israel (we have also been able to see the statements of Israeli President Netanyahu at the Congress of the United States of America). The sanctions against Russia have a heavy impact on our exports and are a source of concern for a country like ours that is partly dependent on Russian gas. But the biggest concern is that of procrastinating a climate of tension in a country tempted by exercising a strong hegemonic action in the surrounding areas. It would therefore be important, where there are real and legitimate demands such as those concerning the Russian minority in Ukraine, to implement the forms of protection, starting with institutional autonomy for the territories concerned. That is why I believe it is right for the European Union to have a common policy on energy supply and security. I am also pleased - and I thank you for this - that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, during the bilateral summit with Vladimir Putin (which you also did during your speech today) wished to mention the model of Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol as a model of respect and protection for minorities. You said this last year both in Castel Presule and during the visit to the works for the construction of the Brenner tunnel: Where a hundred years ago two countries collided causing thousands of deaths, today we are building the tunnel to unite them. It was not for nothing taken for granted and we are proud that, while ethnicities are a source of division throughout the world today, they are an opportunity for dialogue and collaboration. And then, of course, there is the whole theme of the Mediterranean and its security. We have said this many times: Europe cannot leave Italy alone, otherwise the risk is that our reception facilities and the communities concerned will collapse. Operation Triton isn't showing up. The rules of engagement must be revised, if we do not want the Mediterranean to become the largest cemetery in the world. At the same time, we need to step up forms of conflict with departures and we need to increase controls. The threat of ISIS is the most serious threat to stability and peace among peoples since the end of the Cold War. It is true, Mr President, that the sad events of Charlie Hebdo and Copenhagen have given greater awareness both of European identity and values, and of how strong and dangerous the threat of ISIS is for this identity and our values. As was discussed at the Washington Summit, we must also put in place tools for social prevention, to save those young Westerners, but also young Islamics in crisis of identity, who live in situations of extreme discomfort and to whom ISIS turns its attention. It is important, that the propaganda machine is broken too, to tell these children that there is no glory on that side, there are no rewards, but only meat for slaughter, meat to be sent to die in war. And we must create a strong alliance with the so-called - I know that definition is inappropriate - moderate Islam, which operates with respect for laws and our culture. You have said well, Mr President: the Libyan issue goes beyond the mere question of immigration. The fact that Italy has become the promoter of a special group for the Mediterranean within the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, which met in Catania in October and will return to Florence next autumn, is an essential fact, because it puts at the top of the agenda the story of a Mediterranean and a continent, such as Africa, which today deserves great attention, because there are a whole series of challenges: migration flows, the balances of those territories, the role of extremism, but also the opportunities and the desire for growth that occurs in some countries of Africa, as I have been able to ascertain personally on a recent trip to Uganda with international cooperation in Trentino. Here, Mr President, I believe that Italy has from its history and credibility - as you have said - to make its voice heard in Europe. A Europe that today has all the conditions to see its economy restart, provided that politics makes itself fully available, overcoming the divisions that have occurred in this last phase too. I also believe - as you said - that the European Semester was an important step, because it was a point of discontinuity in the thinking of monetary policies; and the measures introduced by Mario Draghi go in this direction. It's all good news for our economy. The Expo, but also the new Jubilee, constitute for our country a precious showcase, two moments in which Italy will be the protagonist in the eyes of the world. And we have to take advantage of it. At the same time, with new international economic agreements, we must focus on the ability of our companies not only to hire, but also to focus strongly on innovation to look at new markets. Here, I believe that this legislature will take on a very important meaning if, alongside all the statements you have made (and I must say, with a spirit of confidence, that we have appreciated), we will get our country out of the crisis, with a new face, with a renewed, innovative and fully modern economic fabric. We self-employed continue to believe that this is the great challenge. A challenge that is also met in Europe and with Europe, with the great international challenges. We wish you good work. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Santini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u18	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr President. I welcome and appreciate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your communications, as well as the general lines of action taken in Europe by you and your Government. I have a few points to discuss briefly. Energy is at the heart of the agenda of this European Council to which you are about to go and I greatly appreciated the reference to interconnections as a crucial element at this stage in the construction of Europe in various respects: the contribution to the further formation of the single market, the contribution to energy security, the contribution to the drive to investment, the contribution to improving the framework for the movement of renewable energy and, I would add, a great opportunity to finally bring Europe closer to its citizens. I'd like to give you an example. On 20 February I attended the inauguration of the new and doubled electricity interconnection between France and Spain, which I had had the opportunity to deal with in 2007-2008 on behalf of the two governments and the European Union, and that is why I was there. Well, the fact that for twenty years each European summit declared the urgency and priority of this project, that nothing happened and that then, finally, with the decision to send a European coordinator to Madrid, Paris and the Pyrenees, it was unlocked (with the many resistances that we know well also in Italian cases), it made the Spaniards and the French say that Europe is therefore not just a nuisance and a stumbling block, but it helps to solve problems that individual states would not solve themselves. The second point I wanted to touch on is that of the Commission's communication on flexibility. Certainly, in the short term, it is a success of politics, but as President Draghi also pointed out two days ago, the rules can be truly credible only if they are applied with a very limited discretion. Well, let me point out the risks of this flexibility if this is the main way of applying European decisions: the first is that it can be applied with a generosity that almost leaves even the country to which generosity is given perplexed (and the case of France is exemplary, let's be honest, being a country that for several years systematically eludes the constraints that others do not elude), but then also because the Commission, already for the application - I believe - normal and acceptable that it has done to the Italian case and for this particularly generous one that has done to the French case, is unfortunately already losing credibility in the eyes of the small Member States, which see double standards applied. That is why I would suggest to you, but I know that it is already in your mental and political framework that you should very much emphasize the need to go early enough to define better rules, that at that point they need less flexibility in application and the key is of course that of strictly defined public investment, but public investment to be encouraged also at national level and not only with the Juncker plan. Germany is opposed, but we have seen in recent years that Germany's opposition can be overtaken by arguments and pressure. I come to the point about the European Central Bank, which is very delicate and central. The European Central Bank is independent and its president is independent, but its life is not in the void and Italy is certainly not irrelevant: it can exert positive or negative influence on the climate within which the ECB decides what to say and what to do. I would like to give two examples of the relationship between Italy and the ECB's operating climate: the first, punctual, refers to 2012, when Italy, with impontature and forceful negotiation at the European Council - President Napolitano followed and blessed these efforts very closely - changed the equation, even using veto power at a certain time, and had the Heads of State and Government of the euro area unanimously establish that stabilisation interventions were justified in certain cases. This allowed President Draghi, in his autonomy, to say, a few weeks later we will do whatever will be necessary, and then take subsequent actions. And again - and this applies not to 2012, but to the last three governments, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: yours and the two who preceded it - we think in what situation the President - independent, but Italian - of the European Central Bank would have found himself in, if Italy had gone towards a drift from the point of view of the financial crisis [[Applause from the PD Group.]] This would have strongly cluttered him in his movements, so it is very important that Italy continues in the current direction. One final point, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: you did not speak of Greece, because today it is not on the agenda in Brussels. Let me say that I have a great deal of concern about this, but also that we should draw from it an indication of hope. The great concern is this crisis, which occurred mainly because of Greek responsibility, which then the behaviors of the troika certainly aggravated (and I am referring to that troika that many in Italy think has also been imposed on us, although in fact we have neither seen nor known it). However, I think that Greek public opinion is a very encouraging element, because, according to all the surveys, it strongly criticizes the troika (how can you blame her?), but it is very much in favour of membership of the European Union: between 70% and 80% of Greeks want to continue to be part of the euro. So here is a country that knows how to distinguish between difficulties caused to a large extent by itself, in the past, and, in part, by an excess of troikas, but that also knows how to see the positiveness of membership of the European Union and the euro, even if it has suffered great consequences. There are public opinions in Italy, Spain and elsewhere that, although they have suffered much less in the eurozone crisis, they have made a much more critical judgement of Europe. I believe that this grants to those who govern those countries, like you at the moment - and I still believe for a long time - a special responsibility on a pedagogical level. Good work today in Brussels. [[Applause from the PD and LAG groups (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI) and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u20	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u21	Mr President, as we have just seen in Senator Monti's last remarks and as noisyly included in our debate by my colleague Mr Tremonti, the issue of Greece, looking closely and rigorously at the agenda of the European Council, is out of the question. In the margins of the European Council on Thursday and Friday, however, there is no doubt that the Greek question is, if not for our debate, at least for our reflection, a number of disturbing questions. Overtaking his passages on Eliogabalo at the court of Luxembourg and on the privatizations allowed to Greece that today not even Margaret Thatcher would dare propose, my colleague Tremonti, in insisting on the political criticalities to the detriment of the economic ones, has manifested a very bitter consideration, at the bottom of his concerns. The truth is not how Greece entered Europe at the time: the tragedy was caused by Europe's entry into Greece, to say the least, united, to use football language. However, we must not neglect the agenda of the European Council on Thursday and Friday, in favour of a very important issue such as the Greek one. I therefore believe that we must acknowledge the President-in-Office's communications that he has followed the outline of the work that awaits him in an orderly fashion. There is the energy issue, which I believe should be shared by your concern that the five points of Juncker's programme should be seen simultaneously in an overall view, and not by favouring this or that point, as some Baltic countries or other countries would be tempted to do. Related to the energy issue, there is certainly the issue of Ukraine. A month ago, in a debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I owe the courtesy of President Napolitano the signal of a fundamental book, although apparently blurry by the news, as perhaps the speeches of my colleague Tremonti (it is a compliment what I am doing): a beautiful book by Vittorio Strada on the issues close and distant, Asian and European, of the relationship between Ukraine and Russia. From this point of view, Minsk 2 is very difficult to assert, and that of our South Tyrol seems to me a formula I do not say too much domestic but too much formula for an issue that has all the other roots. Much more just and more meditated - and perhaps this morning they will be the subject of his meeting with the Secretary of the United Nations - are the considerations that the President of the Council made on the issue of Libya. Beyond the aggressiveness of Islamic extremism, the Libyan affair is a significant way to bring Africa's issues to the centre of debate and international policy decisions. From this point of view, it seemed prudent but significant to me what the President-in-Office of the Council has given us. One last question. It has been said that another life seems to have passed since three months ago, at the last European Council. There have been dramatic events ('Charlie Hebdo') and at the national level the deepening of the reform path. It will not be for partisan patriotism that our Group has always stressed that the reform of the jobs act, thanks to the personal contribution of my colleague Sacconi, has been incisive to bring Italy closer to Europe and Europe to Italy. [[Applause from the GroupAP (NCD-UDC), Senator Barani and from the benches of the Government.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u22	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission has thus summarised the objectives of Energy Union: to ensure a secure, sustainable, competitive and economic energy supply for European citizens. Too bad that, by reading the text and scrolling through strategies, objectives, actions and initiatives proposed, the conclusion is that we are faced with a package that is overall unambitious and that, if implemented in this form, it will do nothing else to perpetuate the existing situation. It is in fact a list of expenditures containing the continued promotion of fossil sources and the defence of the position income associated with it; the pervicacious underestimation of how energy saving, energy efficiency and a further and priority development of renewable sources are the only option to achieve the stated objectives. With this type of programme, we will not only fail to achieve the objectives, but we will differ from what the UN is asking us: a greater commitment with actions to combat global climate change which, on the other hand, would guarantee, yes, greater security, stimulate the reduction of energy costs, sustainable growth, employment and employment. Finally, the communication marks the end of any preferential electricity tariffs for disadvantaged consumers, in the name of that free market which now exists only in the minds of Brussels officials. Just as the Juncker plan will mobilise more than 350 billion private investment of money at the moment non-existent and that perhaps never will be put on the table, the Energy Union could also prove to be a rhetoric of public relations that is not reflected in reality. Let us remember that the Italian Parliament has not yet been involved, although we have asked the Commission to have Mr Guidi report. The only steps forward are the drive to improve the interconnectivity of the networks and the possibility of centralising energy purchases, which are currently fragmented at Member State level. Compared to the objective of energy security, we develop our own energy diplomacy on several fronts with the main objective of affecting the dominance of Gazprom in gas supplies to EU countries. Well, what is the strategy proposed by the Commission to reduce European dependence on Russian gas and at what time? How much will it cost to turn elsewhere? The Commission does not respond to, does not provide data, information or forecasts of time and costs, and merely proposes the following initiatives without explanation: setting up a European LNG network; developing a Mediterranean gas hub, i.e. promoting the import of gas from Algeria, the Middle East, Africa and developing a strategic partnership with Turkey, Turkmenistan and Azerbaijan; developing an energy partnership with Ukraine to develop European investments in that country; promoting the exploitation of domestic resources, including shale gas, through a European scientific and technological network. But the real question we have to ask ourselves is: how much gas and oil do we still have and how much health and the environment can withstand such consumption? Globally, the current conventional reserves of gas and oil that can be used are calculated in 55 and 53 years respectively. Estimates of shale gas and oil, as has been seen, are often unreliable and on the whole reflect more the interests of speculation than those of the population. Is it therefore worth setting the Energy Union on the continuous pursuit of gas and oil, despite all the propaganda about the EU's role in combating climate change? The Commission seems to be looking at renewable energy only through the lens of the subsidies provided in recent years, which should be eliminated for having caused a negative impact on the internal market. Of course, Brussels also recommends eliminating all subsidies that have a negative impact on the environment, such as oil and coal, which still amount to four times those for renewables, but this recommendation has fallen into the void for twenty years, and so the environment continues to bear about 300 billion in Europe alone of harmful externalities every year (repeat, 300 billion euros) that are reflected in the pollution of air, water, earth, men. Of course, the environment is not at all concerned with what the Energy Union envisages; the environment is prepared to evolve, adapt and survive. Are we? The Commission has already given the green light to public subsidies worth EUR 25 billion for the construction of a nuclear power plant in Britain, which would not have found any private funding and which is built with money from citizens' electricity bills. Is this not a distortion of the internal market? Little is proposed on energy efficiency, apart from the encouragement to national governments and the commitment to revise the current legislation, without any indication of what tools should be used to achieve the non-binding target of the 27 percent increase by 2030. Paradoxical is also the declared intention to moderate energy demand and, at the same time, to exploit the energy potential of waste incineration. Forty years now waste management has been targeted at prevention and recycling, at least in words. The Commission today decided to cancel the efforts made, the costs incurred, the civil society's battles against crime and corruption caused by the bad government of waste, legitimizing incineration and thus encouraging the production of waste. It is a pity that even in this case the facts show that incinerators are among the most massive sources of CO2 emissions and toxic pollutants, while their energy contribution is laughable and linked essentially to the public subsidies that these plants enjoy. In many situations in Europe we are in overcapacity of electric production, and with the reduction of the consumption of electricity in which we find ourselves seriously think that it is right still to build large plants of production and electrical interconnection? All the more so if the citizens will pay directly in the electricity bill, which the government has tried to reduce, but only massacre the distributed generation sector. The ongoing wars for the control of resources suggest that the periods of economic lean will still be long; therefore it is necessary not to waste our resources for useless works, but to invest concretely in energy security through interventions aimed at sustainability and employment, that only an innovative, decentralised, renewable and efficient energy system can improve. On these priority aspects it is also necessary and indispensable to involve Parliament and stakeholders; otherwise we will continue to be the doormat of other belligerents, with whom the culture of Italy has nothing to do with. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u24	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u25	Mr President, the next European Council will have as its main themes the energy union, which is part of a new project to integrate Member States' policies. A very ambitious objective, but despite good intentions, the EU's real capacity for action in the field of energy remains frustrated by the still confusing governance of the sector. The current model is too cumbersome to guarantee both the EU and its Member States the ability to operate in an increasingly globalised, competitive and rapidly changing energy sector. In view, the opening of the South Corridor will be a decisive step forward for the diversification of sources, routes and suppliers, as well as the possibility of concluding a free trade agreement with the United States. But in this situation of uncertainty it is essential that Italy maintains a strong decision-making autonomy on its sources of supply. Unfortunately, experience, and certainly not only in the field of energy, shows that only partially demonstrated is the theorem that the European Union would be the indispensable support of the national states, now unable to face the challenges of interdependence and globalisation, would help raise the standard of living, establish a prosperous internal market and strengthen the Union's voice in the world. The truth before us is quite different: the global crisis has exposed all the limits of a Europe of bureaucrats led by the German locomotive, which has brought to light the crisis against others, long and pervicaciously opposing - to make one but emblematic example - the creation of a common European fund to tackle the emergency in a more supportive way. As a result, each country has fought the current difficulties by its own means, while the European institutions have shown that they have neither authority nor the strategy to deal with problems of this dimension. Thus, the Greek case has become a beam that has put in perhaps the same solidity as the entire European architecture and today the depressed prices have become the only common canovaccio traceable in a Eurozone with divergent economic dynamics, which has appropriately prompted the European Central Bank to embark on massive monetary stimulus policies, challenging the opposition of so much of the German establishment, which seems to ignore - Schäuble in the lead - that Grexit, the exit of Greece from the euro, would be a disaster for everyone. President Draghi recalled that the euro was not created to have permanent creditors and debtors. Well, the only realistic way to loosen the grip of the crisis is to combat deflation and bring liquidity into the system to help make structural reform efforts in the most indebted countries less rigid. You, Mr President, noted this morning that the climate in Europe has changed and that the Italian Presidency has led to a change of vocabulary. But if the Italian Government has changed the words in Europe, the numbers have been changed by President Draghi with the QE and it is thanks to the intervention of the European Central Bank, in addition to the other factors you mentioned this morning, if our spread has fallen to today's levels, under 80 points, despite the Italian public debt is still growing and however much higher than when the spread sailed to 600 points and Berlusconi was forced to resign. A monument to Draghi should therefore be made, which has stood in stark contrast to those who consider quantitative easing policies to be the exact opposite of an incentive to reform. But the combined pressure of deflation and stagnating consumption and induced budgetary constraints has not served to consolidate reforms. The stick did not work, while the effects of the quantitative relief plan promoted by Draghi could cushion the immediate costs of structural interventions and therefore this is the way forward. The European Council - as you mentioned - will also deal with Ukraine and Libya, two crucial issues. On Ukraine, Mr President, it would not spoil a bit of historical memory. The negotiations with the 4+2 negotiations on the reunification of the two Germanies promised Gorbachev that NATO would never push one inch beyond East Germany. It was an unwritten promise that was not followed by either Obama or the European Union. Ukraine, rightly or wrongly (but rightly so) is perceived by Russia as the last bastion of its national security; Italy should therefore recover the spirit of Sea Practice and make it clear to the allies that if Putin were to place as a precondition at the end of hostilities that Ukraine did not enter NATO or the European Union, on this point it should be reassured. It would be the way to recover a role that Italy currently does not have, or that is however very weak, despite having imposed its Mrs. CFSP at the head of European foreign policy. We must get out of the war-sanction spiral, given that the path of economic sanctions has already cost us a non-negligible portion of GDP in strategic sectors of our national economy; however, giving arms to Ukraine, as Obama intends to do, would become an accomplice to a further irresponsible escalation. Europe and the United States in this complicated historical moment seem to have lost their sense of priorities. We have the Islamic caliphate knocking at the gates and Putin's Russia is objectively a strategic ally in this battle that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, do not like to call a war of civilization, but which, if it is not, looks very close to you. There is, in fact, an unequivocal fact that we must take note of. The Islamic State (called Al Qaeda, Jabhat al-Nusra, ISIS or Hamas) is taking shape and declared war on the West. Today the caliphate is a concrete threat that occupies a vast territory like Great Britain and has spread all over the Middle East up to Libya, so not far from the Italian coasts. Here the errors of the West are dramatically exposed in the unconditional support for Arab Springs and in the war against Gaddafi wanted by Obama and Sarkozy and to which only Berlusconi had the courage to declare himself contrary; a war that made that strategic country a land of no one, hostage of Islamic extremism and tribal feuds, as well as transit corridor for migration flows of strictly interconnected biblical proportions, as said yesterday by the President of the Libyan Parliament, with the military campaigns of integralism. It is time, therefore, to reverse the course to close the total inertia of the European Union, which opened the door to the prophets of terror and the indoctrinators of the new jihadists, leaving all too often only Israel and smoothing the hair instead of fundamentalists. I would like to make a final remark on the epochal drama of immigration, which the Italian Government is facing and which sees a dialogue between deaf people between Italy and the European Union. Italy, in its six-month European Presidency, missed the opportunity to negotiate the amendment of the Dublin Regulation, which imposes an exclusive burden on it to accept and assist asylum seekers. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is no longer acceptable for Europe to remain deaf and absent from an unsustainable emergency. I would like to make a very last mention of the word that you have not spoken in this House today: I shall marry. An international shame, a vulnus that must be healed as soon as possible. I hope you will also talk about this today with the UN Secretary-General and tomorrow at the European Council. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u26	Greeting students, students and teachers of the Liceo Paritario (Paolino d'Aquileia) in Gorizia who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u27	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I have received six motions for resolutions, the texts of which are distributed. As the President-in-Office of the Council, Dr Renzi, does not reply, I would ask the representative of the Government to comment on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u28	On motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2), at the first signature of Senator Zanda, the Government gives a favourable opinion, with the addition, before the words "engaged" by the Government, of the words "heared the communications of the President of the Council, and approved them. With this addition, motion for a resolution No 1 is accepted. I am against the motion for a resolution No 2, first signed by Senator De Petris. The motion for a resolution No 3 tabled by Senator Calderoli is accepted, provided that it is reworded as follows: It commits the Government to continue to represent, in this forum, an image of credibility, honesty and cleanliness of the country. If this rewording is accepted by the proposer, the Government gives a favourable opinion; otherwise, the opinion is against it. On motion for a resolution No 4, at the first signature of Senator Centinario, I am not in favour of the premises and a favourable opinion on the Government's commitments, calling for the following rewordings of the provisions. In the first paragraph, from the words "guaranteeing, however, the amount of the future treatment", delete the words "guaranteeing," however, and pre-empt the word "favoring" to the words "the amount of the future pension treatment". In the third paragraph, the rewording asks to delete the word "autonomously" and to add, after the words "on the basis of certain criteria" to the words "shared." Finally, the last paragraph calls for the deletion of the words 'has been amended in order to reduce their anti-Russian scope' by rewording the paragraph as follows: To act at European level to ensure that the Latvian Presidency's agenda favours a process of effective relaxation in Ukraine, involves partner countries in a truly shared management of the Mediterranean migration emergency, if possible also promoting reception actions in Africa in which to verify the existence of the requirements necessary for granting the right of asylum, and promote the adoption of a common line of action against Libyan and Syrian civil war. It is therefore asked to insert the word "favoring" instead of the word "creating" because it is not in our availability the "creation" of anything in those places. On motion for a resolution No 5, at the first signature of Senator Cioffi, the Government takes the opposite view. On motion for a resolution No 6, first signed by Senator Paolo Romani, the opinion is opposed to the premises. On the other hand, the rewording of commitments is proposed. Point 8 calls for a stop to the words "to pay particular attention to the issue of Ukraine-Russia" and deletes the following. In point 9, it is asked to stop at the words "Ukraine" and delete the rest. The opinion was also opposed to points 10) and 16). If these rewordings are accepted, the opinion remains opposed to the premises but is in favour of commitments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Mr Pizzetti, for the sake of clarity, I would ask you to specify whether you are proposing to delete points 10) and (16) of motion for a resolution No 6. Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Yes, Mr President, paragraphs 8 and 9 need to be reworded and paragraphs 10 and 16 of motion for a resolution to be deleted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u29	Requests for rewording will be evaluated at the time of the vote, so as to give time to presenters to reflect on the requests for change made by the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u32	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to thank you for putting me before my colleagues in the groups before me in the order of intervention, because I would like to pay my last tribute to one of our missing colleagues, Mr Gustavo Selva, who was, among other things, President of the Foreign Commission of the House and Senator of the Republic. [[Applause]] We've heard so many important speeches. Therefore, in order to respect a fundamental rule, that of European times, I prevent the President-in-Office of the Council from adding my list to the valuable things that have been said by his colleagues. But one thing I mean, because it ties everything together and it concerns the difficult relationship that we have with Russia at the moment. I would like to say this with reference to a statement which I heard from the President-in-Office of the Council when, speaking of energy, he said that his Baltic colleagues mainly insist on the security of energy supplies. We believe that they are fundamental, but for us the whole issue of modernisation, unity of the market, research and the possibility of creating new jobs from a European effort on these issues is fundamental. Well, Mr President, there is one issue that links everyone else: the relationship with Russia, from the energy issue to the second point that you will be addressing at the European Council. I am a veteran, like other colleagues from the Foreign and Defence Commissions, from a meeting held in Riga that was revealing from this point of view. All this is summed up in a word referring to Ukraine, which is a source of misunderstandings and different interpretations between European countries. For us, Ukraine must be a bridge between Europe and Russia. For us, Ukraine must be a bridge of peace, a bridge of collaboration, a bridge of important partnership with Russia. This was the spirit that led the Berlusconi Government to set up, in Pratica di Mare, an important partnership meeting between NATO and Russia. That spirit has gone through the years dispersing and today it is the same Italian terminology, which defines Ukraine as a bridge between Russia and Europe, which is strongly contested by the Baltic countries and others like Poland: they reject at the root the concept of Ukraine-bridge. For them, Ukraine is a fully-fledged Europe and should be integrated with Europe. And perhaps, even if they are careful not to declare it at the moment, they would like to associate Ukraine with NATO. This is a big misunderstanding. If, in fact, we think that Russia can remain indifferent to this argument, beyond the illegal possession of Crimea, that we do not stop condemning, and, if we think that this can be possible, then I want to tell you one thing, dear colleagues: the best intentions are paved the way to hell. With this approach, in fact, we will inevitably end up going to years of confrontation and a return of the climate of cold war with Russia, of which I am not at all nostalgic. And I want to say that also with regard to the Americans. You, President, will go to Obama. It's an important fact. We know that in our genetic code of great European democracy, in the genetic code of Italy since the post-war period, there is an indissoluble friendship with the United States of America. It means belonging to a temple of shared values. It means a common destiny that binds the West and, moreover, Europe would never have been without Atlantic solidarity in the post-war years. But the Americans need to be clearly told a few things. First of all, sanctions for Russia are paid in particular by us and part of Europe. Secondly, the road indicated a few weeks ago, 'We arm Kiev to counter the Russian threat', is not for us to travel; so much so that rightly on that occasion, filling a European vacuum but in the name of Europe, Merkel and Hollande went to Minsk to try to create a fabric of peace, albeit with the difficulties of those days. We have seen that Minsk has not failed, that from that attempt at agreement came a lowering of the tones, a sort of first element of peace. So, it wasn't the wrong way to reach an understanding. The shortcut "Armiamo Kiev" was too easy, which would lead only to an escalation of war. On this, ladies and gentlemen, we must have clear ideas, and it seems to me that the President-in-Office of the Council has them. He, in fact, when he went to Moscow, symbolically endorsed this line of ours, which is not decoupling from the American allies - it would not be possible for us to dissociate ourselves from the traditional allies - but it is a sensitivity that we must bring into European and international politics. We are not, in fact, ladies and gentlemen and we must have the dignity and consistency of expressing a position with Russia based on a partnership relationship. We are not nostalgic about the Cold War. We don't want to go back to the past. And if I may - and here there are far more authoritative witnesses than I am - it cannot be denied that the governments of this Republic, from Berlusconi to Prodi, from Monti to Letta up to Renzi have kept the bar straight on this point, cultivating a serious relationship with Russia in a dimension of partnership Europe and Russia. This must be made clear in Brussels, and also to all those officials who, in recent months, have said things that are not courageous but rash. Let me get to the second chapter, which is Libya for me. I also link this issue to Europe. Mr President, unfortunately, the European documents refer to Libya because we are insistent, because we are asking strongly; because, after hearing the ministers Pinotti, Gentiloni, Prime Minister Renzi and all of us, at parliamentary level, ask for a Mediterranean dimension of European policy, and exhausted by our insistence but also by common sense - the images of Libya come to them too - our partners put a Mediterranean hat, Libyan, next to the hat of Ukraine and North-East Europe. But let us be frank, there is no European Mediterranean policy. In one year, more resources have been allocated to Poland - I am referring to the years of Poland's entry into the European Union - than all the contributions made in recent years to the Mediterranean countries as a whole. There is no policy for the South, and we are in a position to have a Mediterranean which could be a great potential and which is a huge problem for us, because we are not able to make a serious partnership policy. I remember, in this regard, the Arab springs that have resulted in the disasters that we have before our eyes. It is wrong, however, to evoke an Italian intervention. It is wrong to summon a UN intervention. We must continue - as the Government has done - on the road to political dialogue. Again, we have an important partner like Egypt. Among other things, I recommend to my colleagues the reading of the beautiful speech that Al-Sisi made at the Cairo mosque, because it is a very important page to understand the debate that exists within the Sunni world and between Sunnis and Shiites about Islam. Beyond that, Egypt plays a crucial role. But, at the risk of being wrong, because Egypt is cultivating the idea that the Tobruk Parliament and Government can be the final resolvers in the Libyan chessboard. It is not by chance that they ask us for more weapons, but we know that this is an illusion. To believe that the solution can come from an extension of the area of sovereignty of Tobruk is absolutely out of reality. Rightly Italy is discreet, but I think clearly, trying to make it clear to Tobruk that, if there is no dimension of dialogue with the Islamist Parliament in Tripoli, with Misrata, with Zintan and the other tribal realities present, we will not go anywhere. It is therefore necessary for Europe to commit itself to this point, because NATO's intervention was a great folly and not in itself and for itself. It was not wrong to intervene which, perhaps, could have had a logic. Then it was wrong, at the time after the surgery, to take weapons and luggage and leave. The international community had thought, perhaps, of resolving this issue in this way. But there are no good and bad people there, ladies and gentlemen: there is a more complex situation. That is why military intervention cannot be evoked. In favor of whom do you evoke it? For what? Where? When and how? These are pressing questions to which international politics must give answers. Therefore, in recovering the European dimension and the policy of good neighbourliness with the Mediterranean, there is also the solution of issues relating to relations with Russia, which is an essential partner for us. Just look at what happened with Syria. We Italians have the complex of never being able to affect, but we have done important things on the subject of Syria. Someone wanted to push us to bomb Assad, and it is the same that today rediscovers Assad as an inevitable interlocutor with respect to the theme of ISIS. We and Senator Bonino in particular, to whom I would like to address a greeting address here from the Senate [[Applause]] We have fought consistently on this issue. We know that Russia is a key partner and I sincerely hope that negotiations with Iran will also be successfully concluded, because it is a great country. It was right for Mr Gentiloni to visit Iran recently, which we must associate with the major problems of settlement in the eastern part of the country, starting with Afghanistan, Iraq, Lebanon and Hamas in Palestine. Iran, in the chessboard of the Middle Eastern balances, is an actor too important to be able to do without it. So, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I wish you good work and I believe that you will not miss it in the European Council. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), PD, FI-PdL XVII and Misto-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u35	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, Mr Renzi, I have to be honest: we expected more from your speech. This time, compared to the others, it was a little subtone. Maybe he was in a hurry to make his next appointment. But what left us a little perplexed was the meeting he did, during which he described these three months of gold and talked about changes, which we will then go to analyze. Then, in fact, the commitments of the next few days seemed to us more like a list of the agenda, rather than a little more detailed analysis of the issues that will be discussed. Speaking of the changes you have seen in these three months, in which the European Semester was also present, you mentioned the March of 11 January, which, in your opinion, marked a change. We don't think anything has changed, either before or after. The next day, at European level, nothing has changed at all. The situation is the same: the alleged or possible bombers or terrorists continue to shoot undisturbed for Europe. Italy has done little or nothing and the other European countries have done the same. Mare nostrum or Triton (however we want to call her) continues to be - and I will continue to say it forever - the conveyor belt of what can be further tension situations that come to be created with the second generation terrorists. He told us he saw progress in reforms. Yeah, you're absolutely right. But how are we moving forward with the reforms? With parliamentary threats, almost putting confidence also on reforms, and with oppositions that had to go to the President of the Republic. And here I say publicly that at least this President of the Republic received us, and not like what was before, that he decided to go on vacation instead of receiving the oppositions that had asked him to hear. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] You no longer see a stalemate in parliamentary work. Well, parliamentary work has always gone on. There's no stalemate. There has never been a stalemate in parliamentary work, and it is not because of the three months that Parliament is working. Again, in the two years I am a Member of Parliament I have seen neither an acceleration nor a stalemate in parliamentary work. I would kindly ask you not to bring your own visions or those around you to Europe. The election of the President of the Republic was a great opportunity and opportunity, which then turned into the rift of what was to be the pact of the Nazarene, that is, the agreement with the colleagues of Forza Italia. Even in this case, unfortunately, the President of the Republic gives his... Sorry, I meant the President of the Council. But I think that, in the end, he will also become President of the Republic in the future, if we go on like this. I would ask you not to sell it as a success, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. It was a success of politics in general. With regard to the economic issues he spoke about, unfortunately, the decrease in the price of oil or the euro/dollar ratio is not due to the Italian semester or to the fact that Italy has brought a new breath into Europe. You're just, maybe, in the right place at the right time. Let's call it factor C, let's call it what we want, but let's not sell it as our result. You see signs of recovery and maybe macroeconomic analysts also see them. I would, however, like to go to all those citizens who are watching us on television at the moment, and not because they do it from offices or because they are a professional housewife. I'd like to ask anyone who's at home who's fired or on the Social Security Fund. I'd like to ask the 25 guys at the Telecom call center in Pavia. I'd like to ask the 2,000 people in Anagni's Videocon. I'd like to ask everyone who's waiting for a job. Before Monti saw the light and thought that the crisis would pass. Then Letta saw the light and thought that the crisis would pass. Now she sees the light too. I wonder how you see the light and what kind of light you're seeing. With regard to the results, or pseudoresults, I would like to remind you, however, that nothing has been done in this semester for Made in Italy, nor has anything been done in the three months and, therefore, the Made in Italy still awaits protection from both Europe and this Government. I'd like to remind you of the story of the two Maròs, President. I read her tweet of 22 February 2014: I just spoke on the phone with Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone. We'll just do everything we can. But you didn't solve anything. So, the tweets, the followers, the "I like" on Facebook and Twitter, but then you also have to do things. And here, in the end, the results are zero. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Bignami and Orellana.]] I would like to remind you that even in international politics, as far as the Ukraine case is concerned, and therefore the East which we will talk about later, and the Mediterranean speech, we are really still at zero, because Italy still has marginal positions both in Europe and in the Mediterranean basin. I would also like to recall the issue of corruption, which is extremely topical these days, but which unfortunately, like all things in Italy, becomes public domain and, after a few days, returns to oblivion. Well, I would like to remind you that on this issue we are still the shame of Europe, despite its six months and despite its three months, in which it sees improvements. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I would also like to talk, Mr President, about what you are going to say in the coming days: will you tackle the issues of employment growth and the economy? Even then, I hope something changes. At this moment, however, the data we have and the people in the gazebos, squares and streets tell us that the "blah blah" of politics and what is written in the newspapers are totally different from the sentiment that public opinion has. And I'm sorry, President, but I trust what my citizens tell me more than what you tell me. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I would like to remind you about the work, since it was mentioned a few hours ago, also the issue of the precarious: for the school precarious - for example - you promised that you would settle and stabilize 150,000 people; but, if that's okay, it will be 100,000 and the other 50,000, President, what do we say? She promised, not me. That's Pulcinella's promise. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mussini.]] I would also like to talk about foreign policy. If we look east, we're totally absent. Germany, France, Ukraine and Russia presented themselves in Minsk. Where were we? Where was Mogherini? Where was Europe? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Others achieve results and goals, have international visibility, and we are always in the second row. I would like to remind you that we applauded in Parliament the sanctions against Russia. But, while politics plausises sanctions, companies close thanks to sanctions to Russia. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator De Pin.]] Companies shut down, President of the Council. You go to Russia, you go to Moscow, and in the meantime there are companies that leave people at home, they put them in cash. There are companies that lose their orders with Russia because we are playing Risiko in Europe. You tell us, President-in-Office of the Council, that the Libya dossier is no longer in its last place, but perhaps it is in its penultimate place. I would like to remind you that, if we are to be truly influential, we must ask the UN to remove its Spanish representative and replace him with the Italian representative, so that we can say ours. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The problem, Mr President, is that Spain manages the issue of immigration much better than we do, because it knows how to deal with the problem of refugees, while we are the Pulcinella, and I want to continue to use this term. I would also like to point out, President-in-Office of the Council, that if we want to talk about fighting ISIS, we must urge Europe to ask our possible future partners, including Turkey, not to buy oil from the countries that finance ISIS, not to finance ISIS. Instead, we are still debating whether Turkey should enter Europe or not. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] However, I would like to remind you - and I hope you are going to talk about it in Europe - that we are the bridge between Africa and Europe, but we are a colabrodo bridge and we are the colabrodo of Europe: everyone comes in, anyone comes in and comes in whenever he wants. It is true that Libya is not only the problem of immigration, but it is also this problem and you deliberately did not talk about it, and perhaps to make your Minister Alfano happy. The 170,000 illegal immigrants who entered in 2014, however, we remember them very well, as well as the fact that you invoked Triton because Mare nostrum was not good and Europe had to intervene. Now, however, Triton is no longer well and our ships return to Libyan territorial waters. I also like to remember that reception centers are a symptom of bad management, bribes and corruption. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I like to remember the lie that the alleged refugees use Italy as a corridor to go to Europe. But we know very well that Europe is sending them back to us, and so it is going back to being an Italian problem. This must be told to the Italians and not tell the lies in the TV talk shows [[Applause from Senator Simeoni.]] And all this happened during your presidency, in which you put your face: a missed opportunity, served to you, President of the Council, to fill the album of your tweets and selfies. For Italians, however, nothing has changed: we are still on the gas barrel. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Di Maggio. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u38	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are now used to your communications on the Councils of Europe, which are frankly becoming rituals, but without certainty or clarity about the exact positions that our country will have to support. I realize that these days you have other concerns, of a different nature, and perhaps concerning wildlife - as it were - within your Government. I believe that dealing with the issue of the Wolves affair, which - as you know - we have placed with force, really changing direction, means also giving a different message in Europe. That's it! This is an issue not only of credibility, but also of a country that finally - given that you have claimed so many reforms to itself - addresses once and for all, with seriousness, the issue of corruption and one of the fundamental issues, which concerns its public works and its great works. Mr President, I am addressing you, even if you are chatting. These issues have to do not only with Italy, but also with Europe and with what our country could represent in Europe. I say this - for example - from the first point on the Council of Europe's agenda, with reference to the issue of energy. You, Mr President, referred to the Paris Conference, but honestly from this communication of yours - as well as from the previous ones - this House has always missed exactly what we have proposed in Europe, while saying today that we must present ourselves with more advanced positions. This is a non-secondary point, also for the economic recovery of the country. I would therefore like to say very clearly that we would have expected, precisely in view of the Conference of the Parties in Paris, to propose much more binding objectives for the Member States, because it is our country's interest to do so. I am referring in particular to the numbers, of which I will speak clearly, since you have not done so. We would have expected you to come here and tell us that Italy - as it has also done for a short period in Europe - proposes, for example, the goal of cutting by 55% of CO2 emissions, of achieving a share of at least 45% of energy from renewable sources - this would be a strong signal to develop a different model and create jobs - and 40% of energy efficiency. We would have expected you to come here to propose a clear, advanced position, in close connection with the presentation of one of the issues that we consider fundamental in Europe to emerge from the crisis: an absolutely different response from the austerity policies that have marked it up to now, namely that green new deal that, for us, is one of the fundamental elements in order to get Europe out of the difficult situation in which it is still located, and is above all fundamental for our country. Mr President, you have claimed to yourself the fact that the climate in Europe has changed in the six months of the European Semester, and you have claimed to yourself the merit that at last we are not just talking about austerity and we are beginning to deal with certain issues in a different way. Well, I tell you with great frankness that I think that there has finally begun to be a different debate in Europe, but it was thanks to Greece, and therefore to Tsipras himself, who has made the case of overcoming and changing austerity policies. The climate has changed, therefore, over the last six months, but you certainly cannot come here and say that the merit is of the Italian Presidency. I would like to focus on other issues on the Council of Europe's agenda. I'm thinking of the investment fund, the so-called Juncker plan. In this case too, I say with as much clarity that we cannot continue to deal with it superficially or triumphally. We know perfectly well that investment had to be much more substantial: I do not say that it is up to 1,000 billion, which represents exactly the lack of growth between 2007 and 2014, but perhaps everything had to be set in a different way. In fact, I would like to remind you that, despite the fact that the EIB's capital was increased by 10 billion in 2012 with the financing of all the countries, the countries of Southern Europe, which also contributed, basically did not have any advantage in return. Even the investments to be financed will certainly not be those that we consider necessary for the development of our country, but will be founded only and only on the assessment of the profitability; therefore, once again, the parameters will be others. And this obviously means that even that Juncker plan, so much propaganda, risks, especially for the countries of southern Europe, to produce absolutely poor results. And let's get back to the point where I put it at the beginning. The serious lack of the Italian semester is the social issue: the problem of employment in Europe has not been tackled at all. Yet, the issues to be addressed were the issues of energy, the green new deal and the investment plan that, from a different perspective, could really represent change. Two other issues, which are absolutely central not only to the Council of Europe but precisely to the emergency in Europe, concern Ukraine and Libya. I would like to address President Grasso: we are dealing with these two issues very briefly and through a very narrow debate. I believe - and I will make this proposal officially at the next meeting of the Leaders - that there is a need to include an ad hoc session in the timetable in order to fully address the issue of Ukraine and Libya. I very much agree with the issues raised by President Casini a short while ago, but that is precisely why there is a need for a thorough examination, a clear approach. Let me say this: in such delicate events concerning Ukraine - and we have seen it in a plastic way - what was the function of our High Representative? Absolutely none. However, I believe that in both crises there is a very strong national interest and the need to develop a different policy which, as far as we are concerned, must ensure that all diplomatic instruments can be deployed and implemented. There is still a great deal to be changed in Europe, starting with the climate and the conference devoted to it. I find it absolutely unsatisfactory not only the results of the Italian semester, but also today's communications from the President-in-Office of the Council. Italy, in its interest, must have a more advanced role in terms of energy objectives. But she's shy about it. The President-in-Office of the Council has also come to talk to us today about something else: he has come to talk to us about relations with Africa and once again about an energy policy which he continues to base on the fossil. On the other hand, just see what you do with drilling. Italy, for its national interest, had to be the bishop in Europe in indicating the most advanced objectives, both in terms of energy efficiency and renewables, because our interest is the possibility of putting jobs in the field and a different development. As for the Juncker plan - this is another sensitive point - it is the interest of our country to try to strengthen it not only in terms of funding, but also on the selection of works to be financed. These are the issues that we have raised in our resolution and I believe that it is the positions that Italy should be representing. I still really hope that, on the sensitive events of Ukraine and Libya, we will try to put a much more articulated position on the ground. I am not saying anything about sanctions, but there is also a national interest here: we are paying huge economic prices and, precisely for this reason, I believe there is an urgent need for an ad hoc session of the Senate, for a more in-depth discussion and for giving real direction to Italian politics in these two countries so important for Italy and Europe. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Bignami and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u41	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to speak to the President-in-Office of the Council, but I think he is absent. I'll pretend it's there, there's his ectoplasm sitting in that chair. I wanted to say to him: dear President, from the top of the Senate, we would like to speak to you downstairs, sitting on the benches of the Government, and in particular to the ectoplasm of the President of the Council, a young man with old ideas, especially in the field of energy. You know, Mr President, we have been called "breaks" (and I do not say what) in the interceptions on large contracts, those contracts that led to the last arrests for which Minister Lupi, perhaps, indeed, surely, should resign. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On the other hand, the words spoken by the ectoplasma on the Chancellors, De Girolamo and Alfano were exactly in this sense, but on Wolves silence: the power of communion and billing. [[Applause and laughter from the M5S Group]] Today, excellent ectoplasm, he came to talk to us about many things. He presented us with a beautiful book of dreams, a dream in which Italy really counts something in the European design, a strong and decisive Italy. We'll have a new tweet soon. On the other hand, we are wondering what it is with, excellent ectoplasm, on Thursday it will be presented at the meeting of the European Council? What will you tell the Heads of State of other European countries? Will you tell them that Italy finally has an effective anti-corruption law? Or will you say that GDP and wages have grown again? Or maybe it will delight them, telling as always that Italy is committed to energy efficiency? It would be nice, but he will not be able to say any of this because, beyond his chatter, there are numbers and facts. You know what was the European Semester of Italy: a failure. The only result was to promote Mogherini to Lady CFSP. If it were not then that Mrs Mogherini represents a conscious case of "promoting to remove" and, I add, to count nothing. It is not otherwise explained why, in the case of the Vienna negotiations on Iranian nuclear, they told you: Stay at home, maybe it's better. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So in the case of the Ukrainian crisis, where it basically counted as the two cups to trump. The President-in-Office of the Council tells us about the timid signs of recovery. What we know is that, in the last fifteen years, successive governments have produced a constant decrease in manufacturing: we were first in 2000, we are second today and the first are the Germans, who have had a constant trend of ascent. That's what's happened in the last 15 years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The same applies to wage policy. In fact, Italy is the only country in the OECD area that, as a purchasing power, today has the wage lower than that of 2000: all other countries have it growing, while we have reduced the purchasing power of wages. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The only thing you could have done was stem corruption. You should tell the party that you are Secretary of State that this is the real priority for Parliament, rather than talking about the bank decree, which is so dear to Mr Boschi. What will you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, explain to your European colleagues? What are you gonna say? Will he say that we have a Ministry of Infrastructure in which there was a super manager who ran the procurement of the great public works by dividing them among the clique? How dare you say that, in your government, there is an infrastructure minister who has a businessman hires his son, who grabbed himself with bribes so many contracts of great works? What will you say, dear President-in-Office of the Council, to the International Monetary Fund, which says that, for a dollar spent on infrastructure, almost three are generated: of those two extra dollars spent, how many have ended up in the pockets of friends of friends? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Dear President-in-Office of the Council, in fact, Mr Ectoplasma, in conclusion, you will need so much courage and shamelessness. He will have to unleash a beautiful bronze face, with his proverbial dialectic, to make Europe believe that everything in Italy is going in the right direction. Despite his oratory skills, we believe that he will not be able to convince the European Council. Of course, Mr President, you did not convince us and above all you did not convince the Italians that they are tired of your talk. Au revoir, ectoplasma! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u44	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, of course I am also addressing the President-in-Office of the Council in particular, although for other commitments he is absent. [[The President of the Council is standing in the Chamber.]] There he is, the President-in-Office of the Council: he said he had other commitments. But, since he is in the Chamber, he will also be able to listen then. It could have a more up-to-date attitude towards this House and Parliament: if there is one, it is up to the President-in-Office of the Council. It is not an ordinary moment, even if it may prove so. [[Applause from Senator Mussini]] You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are not very familiar with the numbers, perhaps more with those of the financier Serra, on which CONSOB and two prosecutors are carrying out checks on suspicions of financial speculation, probably facilitated by the knowledge of confidential news. [[Applause from Senator Marin]] You have abused Parliament's confidence. There have been now about thirty decree-laws, over thirty votes of confidence, and he said he would not use this instrument: instead he used it and abused it. Even the decree-law on popular banks, one of the many, in our opinion - President Grasso knows my views on this, but they are not only mine - did not present those requirements of necessity and urgency, but we will discuss it in the next few hours. Let us look at the numbers, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The situation, although there is some economic recovery leaf - or at least so hopefully, and we hope so - has worsened from January 2014 to January 2015. There are data showing how we have moved away from European averages. As far as gross domestic product is concerned, today we are 1.4% below the European average; in January 2014 - and I am referring to a period not of the brightest, but there was the Letta Government - the distance was 1.3%. As far as employment is concerned, the distance from the European average was 0.9%, while today it is 1.4%. This morning the President-in-Office spoke of the jobs act, which has not yet had any effect, as the implementing rules are still in progress. If there is any effect, if you refer to the questions that have been asked, they concern, if anything, the effects of the decontribution contained in the law of stability. The distance to the European average has also deteriorated with regard to the debt-to-GDP ratio, compared to which we are 132%, and the distance from the European average today is 40 points, while in January 2014 - I do not compare with distant ages - it was 37 points. Industrial production in January decreased by 2.2 percent, while in January 2014 it had grown by 1.4 percent. If a year ago the distance of industrial production from the European average was -0.7%, today it is 3.4% less. The situation, therefore, has changed. President Renzi says he has changed Europe's vocabulary, but the economic situation has changed even worse. Other factors are completely unrelated to government action. All the speeches by the European Central Bank, the so-called Bazooka of Draghi, on which the present Government has no influence, have been mentioned. I must also demand that Silvio Berlusconi be able to mediate that Mario Draghi - I hope, and we all hope, for the benefit of Europe - has come to the head of the European Central Bank. It was other governments that, with great international reputation, brought to a successful conclusion that negotiation, also for the prestige of Italy. I do not believe that the government has any credit for the dollar-euro ratio or the price of oil. Renzi and this Government have nothing to do with certain factors that we hope will have positive influences on the Italian economy. We have also mistakenly negotiated in the European Union, bringing home Federica Mogherini's completely irrelevant position. When we saw the photograph of Hollande and Merkel in Moscow from Putin, the foreign minister - if he is - of the European Union was absent. We had to have an economic portfolio to better protect Italy's interests, and not a decorative and irrelevant function, because Federica Mogherini is not even the first Vice President of the European Commission, as was Catherine Ashton. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] As for Libya, I would like to congratulate Minister Gentiloni who, a few days ago, went to Europe, said, together with the Commissioner who deals with immigration (I think it is a Greek), that in Africa we must also talk to dictators. We would like there to be established democracies in Africa, Asia, everywhere. But the only democracy in that area is that of Israel, where we voted and I am very pleased that Netanyahu, denouncing predictions and polls, won the elections, with a clear position against international terrorism and also against Obama's surrendering policies. The result of the Israeli elections these hours is a good thing for those who want to defend democracy and the Middle East. Mr Gentiloni and a European Commissioner have said that we must also talk to dictators. Of course, because in Africa and Asia there are few expressions of democracy. When Silvio Berlusconi negotiated with Gaddafi, those who today discover that dictators are sometimes inevitable interlocutors challenged his government or talked about the tent of Gaddafi. It was much better to deal with Gaddafi and block immigration than to be humiliated by an ungovernable context today. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I hope that initiatives will be taken, but I believe that perhaps there will be more of a naval blockade, about which representatives of the UN have spoken in recent days or even the President of the Foreign Commission of the Senate Casini. Probably, in fact, the use of illegal immigration for political purposes is a constant of that area, and so did Gaddafi. The agreements between Italy and Libya were reached after uncontrolled travels of illegals were used as a means of pressure by Gaddafi himself at the time, as today do those of the caliphates who are being attacked in Libya. We therefore need a Realpolitik. The energy is also linked to this. You spoke of energy, but the agreements with Libya and the policy of good relations with Russia had guaranteed, with the governments of Berlusconi, safe and affordable energy supplies for our country. This is the reality of recent Italian history. We also expect a breakthrough in the Libyan affair and the European Council to take note, with realism, that there is a threat of terrorism going from Nigeria to the Philippines. The fundamentalists are not only the very dangerous ones of the Islamic State. There are Boko Haram's in Nigeria. There are some in Algeria, in the Sahel, in Sinai, up to Asia. In recent days, moreover, the further attacks in Pakistan against Christians have confirmed that there is a planetary threat that the international community can no longer underestimate. Then, as far as the Russian side is concerned, I would like to remind you that economic sanctions against Russia have caused enormous damage to the European Union and Italy. There has been a fall of 4.3 percent in trade between the EU area and Russia. Italian farmers and producers are well aware of the damage we are suffering, while Chinese, American and North African countries, in spite of international concerns, are increasing their exports to Russia. We are certainly dealing with the dispute between Ukraine and those peoples, but we also have the interest of our producers, who are paying a very high price to a wrong policy towards Russia. You were in Russia days ago. Let us hope, then, that some realism enters the government's agenda. I would also like to refer to the affair of the Maròs. A short time ago, the news agencies reported that Minister Gentiloni, meeting with the UN Secretary-General, raised the issue of the Maroons. You do that too, Mr Renzi, because we must bring this dispute to the highest international level. We cannot be humiliated by the arrogance of Indian institutions. We must make this a matter of national dignity. And you must take initiatives, not only through the tweets that Senator Centinario recalled before, but through Italy's negotiating capacity to put these events at the highest level. Your position, frankly, in the European context, should be more incisive, in our view. The Juncker plan is not enough today with regard to the revival of the European economy. As far as Italy is concerned, whatever you say, showing optimism, the tax burden has increased and the taxes on real estate have exploded. Farmers are questioning the agricultural IMU, which is bringing down a sector that has a lot to do with European policies. Not to mention the regulations that, from professionals, beach businesses, VAT matches and many other sectors, are penalized many of our realities. We do not share your optimism and we have pointed out in our resolution some objectives relating to European economic policy and international relations policy. We renew here our concern about the inadequacy of the European Union's international policies on the control and blocking of illegal immigration, the courage to deal with the offensive of Islamic fundamentalism, the need to review policies with Russia. You must study a little more, Mr President-in-Office, instead of being arrogant and bold. Days ago he showed that he did not even know the Constitution of the Italian Republic, invoking for RAI the election of advisers by Parliament in a joint session. He does not even know paragraph 2 of Article 55 of the Constitution, which says that Parliament meets when the Constitution provides for it. He didn't study the Constitution. Study at least European rules to better defend our country's interests. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u45	We greet the students and the teachers, including Professor Chiara Mussini, of the Liceo Classico e Scientifico "Ariosto Spallanzani" of Reggio Emilia, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u48	LATORRE (PD). Mr President, there are so many, all the more so after the debate I have heard this morning, the reasons why, with conviction and determination, we shall vote for the motion for a resolution which transposes its communications. Communications that have confirmed what, for the truth, appears more and more evident and that only a propagandistic shortsightedness tends to conceal, moreover also in an inconvenient way for our country: Europe is taking a new path compared to the past. The European dream had indeed threatened to break as a result of the policies followed in the years behind us, which had offered an idea of an increasingly bureaucratic Europe and less and less of the people. Today, thanks to the changes that have taken place, a new idea of Europe is coming to life again. After the last European elections, we were faced with a crossroads: a first path led us back, even to call the euro into question and we still listen to the echo of these campaigns, and the electoral outcome of many countries gave strength to this dramatic possibility. On the other hand, a second road led us to impose a turning point in European politics, and this hope was certainly fueled mainly by the electoral outcome of the Europeans in Italy. Now, without emphasis, I would like to say that the happy coincidence that it was precisely to Italy and to you, President Renzi, that led the first European semester after the elections was a non-secondary factor to take the second path. Today, without excessive optimism, we can measure the first fruits of this reversal of trend. I am thinking of the communications on flexibility which, Mr Monti, are, on the other hand, extremely important and positive. I am thinking of the Juncker plan, with a commitment of 315 billion for a major investment programme; I am thinking of the rediscovered protagonism of the European Central Bank, which will ultimately, with quantitative easing, greatly lighten the management of the Member States' debt and produce an important release of liquidity. All this is in addition to the report you have rightly mentioned, Mr President, EUR/dollar, which has never been so favourable to Europe, helping the exports of European countries. Now, this profound reversal of the trend must encourage Europe - and in this the European Council can mark another significant point - to go even further on the path it has taken, but it must also encourage individual countries - I am thinking also of Greece - to continue to adopt those necessary reforms not because Europe imposes them, but because thanks to them all the countries will be stronger, to make Europe a political actor in a world marked by profound upheavals and political events; finally, the elections in Israel which will need to be reflected on and which are certainly not irrelevant to the more general scenarios. We in Italy are doing so and we have already begun to reap the first fruits. I do not know what data Mr Gasparri consults, but I am thinking, first of all, of the fundamental recorded cut in our 130 basis points since you, Mr President, went to your first European Council. By the way, compared to a European average of 90 basis points, it is a particularly significant drop on which our economic policy has also weighed. But I also think of the first data, timid but encouraging, on the effects of our interventions for the job, the content of the law of stability, the budgetary policies to implement the Juncker plan, to a new, strong interest of foreign investors towards our country. We want to say here, however, very clearly, that we are well aware that it remains fundamental to win the mother of all the battles that today is the fight against corruption. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In this regard, I would like to say very clearly, it is not good for the representatives of a fundamental power of the State to express judgments not of specific contestation of individual acts - which not only legitimate but also useful - but liquidation and frankly unacceptable judgments that hurt Italy and the fight against corruption. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] This struggle has not only a fundamental ethical significance; it is a fundamental chapter of the battle to overcome the competitive disadvantage of our country system. We can really say that this country has changed when we win this battle. That is why we have started it seriously by adopting the legislation on self-recycling. Precisely in these hours the Finance Guard is engaged in an operation in which the crime of autocycling is contested using just the new legislation introduced. In these hours our commitment is to bring to conclusion the measure that re-introduces the crime of fake into the budget, increases the penalties and, above all, neutralizes the use of the prescription, not as it should be to speed up the trials, but to escape condemnations. But this commitment - and I would like to address the President-in-Office of the Council and all my fellow Members - must be combined directly with the one put in place to renew Italian democracy, on the one hand by speeding up the system reforms which are now close to the goal - and it would be fatal not only to stop them, but even to slow them down - on the other hand by radically reconstructing the intermediate bodies to start with the parties, which must change profoundly in order to be in new forms the first fundamental place of strict control and selection of the ruling class. The time has therefore come to address courageously and without further delay the subject of Article 49 of the Constitution and hence of party reform. The European Council will therefore return to the Ukrainian crisis. Here I would like to say that this morning's debate almost represented a posthumous revenge of the October Revolution. Dear President, what you have told us confirms the correct course that our country has taken, without ever removing the serious violation that has been committed in Crimea, let us not forget. We have kept a course in which our choice of field has been clear, of course without ever losing the objective of overcoming the crisis for an effective resumption of dialogue with Russia which certainly remains essential to stabilise other areas of crisis as well as to defeat terrorism and the political project of ISIS. As you have pointed out, a special commitment by Italy in recent months has been necessary to change the order of foreign policy priorities and to draw the attention of the international community, and of Europe in particular, to the centrality of the issue of the Mediterranean and its security. Moreover, the foreign policy line followed by our country has been clear, beginning not by chance with a trip to Tunisia until its recent mission to Egypt to emphasize, even symbolically, that our priority is the Mediterranean. And in this context it is clear that the Libyan crisis is becoming increasingly important today. Not only Italy, but the whole of Europe must realize that if Libya turns into a new Somalia it will be a tragedy not only for our country, but for the whole of Europe. And it is also thanks to the work of our country in all its expressions, from diplomacy to the precious one of our intelligence services and the political one, today the commitment of the UN representative, Bernardino Leon, and the diplomatic window that has opened represent the best intervention of the last three months in order to constitute a government of unity in that country; an indispensable condition to activate an international initiative to support a work of State building. But everyone must realize that the time available will not be unlimited and that in the game of mirrors the spoilers who work for the destabilisation of the whole area are in action and the more time they will have more chance of success will have their work. The international community, dear President-in-Office of the Council, must realise that in Libya it is also a fight against time and therefore not a minute can be wasted to support the solution of that crisis. I should like to know, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that, in this respect, you can count on the convinced support of the Democratic Group. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u49	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1 (text 3). GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1 (text 3), tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 2 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3, for which the representative of the Government has asked for a rewording of the mechanism which consists in adding the words: "to continue." I would ask the presenter if he would accept it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u50	Mr President, frankly, I do not understand the government's position because it means that we do not understand what the motion for a resolution I have tabled contains. The resolution states: "It commits the Government to represent, in this forum, an image of credibility, honesty and cleanliness of the country." I believe that such a motion for a resolution at a normal time would have been an ultronic and useless one: one more. I have tabled motion for a resolution No 3 today in the light of the events of these days, of the recent times that are giving the country an image exactly opposite to that of credibility, honesty and cleanliness. If the Government gives a favourable opinion on the condition that the words are inserted: "to continue" gives a sign of continuity that is exactly the opposite of what I ask. I want the government to commit itself, with a signal of discontinuity with respect to how our country is currently represented abroad, to represent an image of credibility, honesty and cleanliness of the country. Since I am convinced that I have tabled a motion for a resolution that should be voted on by everyone (I do not understand how the government can not accept it because, from what I read, it should be the first to want to protect such a image of the country), I maintain the original wording and I invite the Undersecretary Pizzetti to reflect to allow the original text to be maintained. Otherwise, if it were rejected, the Government would commit itself to representing an image of disbelief, dishonesty and filth. Are you kidding me? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u51	He asked the government representative to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u52	Senator Calderoli's arguments confirm the government's approach. If you do not want to give this motion for a resolution an instrumental character, you must insert the words "continue to represent" because we believe that the Government represents in Europe, already in this moment and without further solicitation, an image of credibility, honesty and cleanliness of the country. If Senator Calderoli accepts our proposal, well, otherwise the opinion is against it. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and AP (NCD-UDC) groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u55	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u56	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u59	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, in view of the policy of the League and the approval of the Government, I would like to see a written clarity in the proceedings on the term 'cleaning'. Cleaning from what?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u60	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4. Do the presenters accept the Government's proposal, which has expressed a contrary opinion on the premises and asked for a rewording of the device?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u61	Mr President, we believe that the motion for a resolution must be maintained in its entirety, because of course it has an accomplished meaning. The government can't make commitments in installments. All this, within a European system which for us is much more serious than that represented by the President of the Council of Ministers, requires us to maintain the motion for a resolution as set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u62	The government's opinion at this point?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u63	Since the proposals for rewording the system were not accepted, the Government initially agreed, at least informally, to the contrary at this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u66	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u67	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Motion for a resolution No 5 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 6. Do the presenters accept the Government's proposal for rewording, which has expressed a contrary opinion on the premises and asked for a rewording of the provisions?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u68	No, Mr President, we do not accept the rewording proposals put forward by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u69	Is the Government's opinion against this?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u70	Yes, Mr. President. We regret that the proposals for rewording are not accepted, because the whole of the provision is very important and represents a common commitment in terms of foreign policy, in particular European policy. That being the case, the Government takes the opposite view.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u73	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u74	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Romani Paolo and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 6 by a simultaneous ballot. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u75	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1504, 82, 811, 1233 and 1234.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u78	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have already expressed the favourable opinion of the Forza Italia Group in general debate and when considering the amendments, even though it has missed the opportunity to vote on a measure that has greater substance and recognizes the true function of marriage. I do not think it is right, on matters of this kind, to play in political terms. Therefore, although a paragraph that was decisive in strengthening the defence of marriage and the legitimate family has been deleted, we will also vote in favour of the provision, because in the logic of correct politics, we do not reason in terms of majorities, we do not even reason within the Groups according to a majority vote, but we reason in terms of freedom of conscience - the constituent Fathers have taught us this - especially when it comes to matters that pertain to the rights of persons and to the recognition of the family. You see, Mr President, Article 3, which has been adopted, amends Article 191 of the Civil Code, and I would just like to draw the attention of each of you to the fact that in 1992 I commented (you will also find it on the Chamber of Deputies' website) on a judgment of the Court of Cassation stating that the dissolution of communion between the spouses occurred only with the judgment passed in court. Since then, I thought that it was possible, even in an interpretative way, to recognize the effectiveness of the dissolution of communion between the spouses to the presidential measure. Today we say this, but here too, Mr President, the haste that the current Government wants to put in the examination of the laws is something that runs counter to what must be the rule of Parliament. I would also like to address the rapporteur: we will vote for this rule, because it is right, but it also needs further amendments and clarifications. With this rule, we have introduced the system of dissolution of the legal communion of the goods, although I must say that it was a norm conceived in 1975, which introduced the family of the affections and therefore wanted the affection between the spouses to transfer also on the property, but since it then gave rise to a series of problems for the couples, in fact it is little used and almost all choose the regime of separation of the goods. However, let us assume that there is a presidential hearing following which the spouses, spent a year, during or after the divorce judgment, are reconciled: do they remain under the regime of separation of assets? As you can see, the prospects are always many, but the haste that this Government imposes many times then causes, according to the saying, the blind kittens to be born. Yesterday you voted for the deletion of paragraph 2 of Article 1 because it would have represented the mistake made a few months ago, when we voted for the so-called assisted negotiation and the dissolution of the marriage before the officer of the civil state. That is, you have taken away the necessary publicity of marriage and the role of the judge to choose and assess concretely whether or not there is respect for the law of 1970. Since this was not done, you also preferred to delete Article 2, which reaffirmed the values of the 1970 law. I wish that before the dissolution of a marriage was pronounced, there would always be the ascertainment of the impossibility of reconstitution of family communion. If that were not the case, in fact, we would legitimize a spouse to decide alone, especially if it is economically powerful: with the current system of assisted negotiation, he decides on his own how and when to dissolve the marriage. Yesterday you voted for Group discipline, but think about it and we find solutions to a panorama that today is jagged. This rule approved by the House was full of errors, and we have corrected it step by step unanimously in the Commission. In fact, there were obvious errors, even here, perhaps even in that case due to the haste, otherwise I cannot think that lawyers can make mistakes of the kind committed in the drafting of that article. What should I say, then, as the Forza Italia Group? We will vote in favour of the measure, but I call on the majority groups: do not let the government push you into haste; let us think in terms of actual rights and verification of the laws that we are going to write about the rights of people and the protection of the family. We should always do that. Similarly, Mr President, I hope that the Conference of Group Leaders or perhaps also the President of the Senate will take account of the fact that we have been here for days working and writing amendments: by tonight we should finish the examination of the anti-corruption bill, but is it correct that the deadline for tabling amendments in this House expires on Friday at 1 p.m. when we do not begin their examination before Wednesday or Thursday next week? I say, then, that there is also a resting place in Parliament on the government's instructions about this haste that does not make sense, because I certainly do not have the text, like you, because tonight and tomorrow night or night we will have to write the amendments on the basis of nothing. I believe that there is no lack of fairness and reflection, because writing an amendment in relation to the rule, without assessing the consequences, leads to this. Only in this Chamber did I realise that we had failed to regulate the possibility of reconciliation in the same separation judgment. We had to confirm this solution and, even then, say that it remained separate, but we would have discussed it and assessed it and would have given an effective response. I hope that the President will reconsider that deadline on Friday at 1 p.m. for the tabling of amendments to this House, which, otherwise, will sometimes be incorrect, will have been tabled only to make a number, but will not make an effective contribution to the resolution. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u81	Martini (PD). Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of this draft law, convinced that it will produce an important step forward in Italian divorce legislation, towards resolving issues strongly felt by significant sections of our population. This law will also be a way of building greater harmony with widespread sensitivity and with the real and concrete opinion of so many people. We will vote yes because the law, as it comes out of the Senate today, contains just rules, necessary and expected, and these three elements together make it a positive and progressive law, the need of which is present on the parliamentary agenda - let us not forget - since 2003: it has therefore taken twelve years to complete this passage. The reduction in separation times was and is necessary and just. The positive aspects have been highlighted by many speakers from all political groups. I summarize them in three essential points. First, to reduce the wounds of separation. It often becomes the most critical moment of the whole story. The long times of marriage dissolution fuel the conflict rather than the rediscovery of solidarity, and are, in most cases, a psychological burden of pain and suffering for the younger children. On the contrary, the reduction of disputes in court often favours the welfare of children. It is not, therefore, holding long the times of separation that favours the possible rethinking and rapprochement, nor do they offer protection and hope to the younger children. Bringing the times to twelve and six months is therefore not a measure against marriage, but on the contrary the most coherent way to see if others are created, more wanted, more aware and - hopefully - happier and more solid, and that on this basis more united families and more children are born. Second point: the law places Italy more in line with other European countries, reducing distances in legislative terms and administrative efficiency. In this way we can avoid the inconveniences of traveling abroad of our fellow citizens who think they can solve their problems by relying on the legislation of other States rather than our own, which is never a positive sign of accession and sharing. In this sense, we are also encouraged by many specific demands of the European Union, of which we want to become, in general terms, a factor of development and dynamism. Thirdly, the measure simplifies, deburring, makes the causes less expensive, relieving families and people and demonstrating that the force idea of an easier, lighter, friendlier state can work anywhere, and not only with regard to taxes and building permits. It is therefore a right and necessary measure. It is also a point of broad sharing among political forces; it has been so in the House (with the vote of almost 90% of Members) and I think it will be so today in the Senate. A necessary and positive measure, although still not entirely decisive. The long time of civil justice remains. We have not, of course, resolved them by this law and we will need more effective measures. How long does it last in Italy, still today, a cause of separation and then that of divorce? I think that's why it's still misleading to talk about a quick divorce. If we count the total time, adding up the different stages of the procedure, we are always at several years, and we will still be for a long time. In any case, this is an important step forward in this respect, for the cultural signal it gives and for the legislative context it evokes. This law confirms that we are in a context of movement. The legislature is finally addressing the issues of human and civil, personal and social rights. He does so by trying to move situations that had been blocked for a long time and to keep together innovation and sharing, as is right and inevitable in many respects. We also want to read it as a measure that is part of a general process of dynamization of Italian culture and society. We are not the only contributors to this process; there are also international movements that, directly or indirectly, push in the direction of greater cultural openness, a more accentuated innovation also on the major anthropological and social themes. I have already said about the demands that come from the European Union, on many lands. I could cite the new vigorous campaign of the American administration on the subject of migration, and above all the reformist thrust that characterized the first two years of the pontificate of Pope Francis, whose direction of march is to deal decisively with the nodes, even the most rough ones, from the point of view of the people, trying to better connect the precepts to the new reality of ideas, sensibilities and behaviors of today's citizens. If we look at Italy, we note, alongside the discussions on civil rights, the new centrality of issues such as school, cultural heritage and the third sector. One can argue about individual solutions, but it is honest to note that these issues push for a more open and modern conception of the reality that surrounds us. Most of these signals tell us that from the deep crisis that still afflicts our economy and our society, which is also undoubtedly a great cultural crisis, we come out with a new general movement, covering all the social spheres, from the economy to the environment, from culture to collective behaviors. The fundamental values of this phase must be awareness, responsibility and innovation. The crisis must not find us firm, undecided, resigned. I am not among those who weave the unconditional praise of "running purchexia." I think, indeed, that reflection, weighting and depth of thought are tools that will continue to serve. But a new mature dynamism, even on civil and social issues, is in any case not elusive; it is one of the conditions of our positive exit from the crisis. There is a link between the economic and social impulse, the shock to be given on these lands, and that which produces innovation and change on essential ethical values. It is not only with the laws that we will achieve the necessary changes. It's not the programme plan, it's not the funding that solves everything. It is essential that the strength of a more open, more receptive, more mobile culture be expressed that can keep away fears, cunning, hypocrisies, which are the most dangerous toxins in the complex social and cultural metabolism. Sintonia with the country also means this: to create a clear and virtuous link between reforms and rights, so that one thing helps the other. Let us therefore acquire this law and move forward decisively on the other issues on the agenda. On the direct divorce said clear words yesterday afternoon, the leader of the Democratic Party Luigi Zanda. Of the excerpt we take the part that can still unite: reflect better, deepen, look better inside. If it were only a way of closing the issue, it would be a impoverishment of the discussion, a negative outcome that the PD Group does not agree with. A fruitful debate has actually opened. Is the passage of separation always necessary and useful? Or can there be situations, well defined, where you can jump? There has been a busy but not united debate on this issue. The Italian specificity, and the concept of separation as a phase that can be useful, on the one hand; the idea that in certain situations the phase is useless and heavy, and that the wait can whip new projects, more lucky and promising, on the other. There are value elements in both positions, and maybe some synthesis can be found. The hope is that the discussion can go on, that the Government will play a role of stimulus and synthesis, that we ourselves know how to find further points of convergence beyond that, albeit advanced and valuable, which we positively take today. I would like to end by thanking the rapporteur, Mrs Filippin, for the work she has done and for the intelligence of her conduct, the members of the Justice Commission and all the colleagues who have fed this important debate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u82	I greet the director and a representative of the Agricultural Institute of Osasco, in the province of Turin, who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u84	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u85	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall vote differently than my own group, convinced as I am that in our country, and not only that, we are consciously working for the dissolution of the family, which is a secular, non-confessional good, which should be dear to everyone, to whatever political force they belong to. I therefore refer to what I have already said in general debate. I note that a position strongly supported by my Group and married by a large part of the Members of this House avoided with yesterday's vote - I am referring to the deletion of paragraph 2 of Article 1 - the interpretation of the so-called immediate divorce and I thank all my fellow senators and in particular the chairman of my Group, Senator Schifani. Unfortunately, amendments have been withdrawn which would have further improved the text: I am referring in particular to those signed by Senator Giovanardi. In politics mediation often leads to the path of harm reduction. I realize that my position is an absolutely minority one in this House, but it gives voice and citizenship to millions and millions of citizens who certainly do not share this measure as a whole. Mr President, I cannot, I do not have to and I do not want to support this, and I therefore vote against it. [[Applause from Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u87	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u88	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I too am voting against the Group's position. I say this with great respect and having appreciated the work done by Senator Caliendo and President Palma on a delicate subject. I shall vote against this measure, for the reasons we have set out both in the general debate and in the presentation of amendments, although I understand the spirit of the times and the request to shorten the divorce time. I personally also appreciated that our Group had the opportunity to express itself freely on the excerpt: I was chairing the work at that time, so, for functional reasons, I could not express my vote, but the deletion of that paragraph was a positive fact. Given that it is not mandatory to marry and that it is not a confessional or religious question (marriage is part of the Constitution and the civil order of the State), the trivialization of this bond does not help, in my opinion, the organization of society, since the times of divorce have greatly shortened over the years, with repeated legislative interventions that have modified the original legislation of 1970. In recent days we have discussed significant aspects concerning the family in the broad sense: adoptions, conditions of minors and, precisely, now, marriage; we will come back to discuss other aspects that will intertwine civil unions, adoptions and anything else. Since I believe that defending a traditional approach to society is as legitimate as supporting different arguments, which I do not criminalise at all, I want to say, even in the parliamentary seat, my opinion and my thinking. I think it is everyone's right to support their opinions and leave their thoughts to the acts, in the free confrontation of Parliament's democracy and rights. For these reasons I shall vote against this measure. [[Applause from Senators D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Mandelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u91	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u92	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 1504, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Mixed-SEL and Mixed Groups.]] Consequently, the draft law no. 82, 811, 1233 and 1234.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u93	In the light of the progress of the work of the Commissions 6a and 10a on the decree-law of reform of the popular banks, today's afternoon session will not take place. As established by yesterday's Conference of Leaders, the relevant space will be reserved for the work of the Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u96	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 21 January 2014, in the debate on the Senate Act No 925, containing the delegations to the Government on non-convict prison sentences and the reform of the sanctioning system, Amendment 2.217 (text 2) was approved, at my first signature, then incorporated into the identical amendment 2.214 (text 2) by the rapporteur, Mr Casson, who transformed the omitted payment of INPS contributions on behalf of workers from an offence to an administrative offence, provided that the same does not exceed the limit of EUR 10,000 per year. In the same amendment it was reiterated that the employer is not liable as an administrative offence if he makes payment within three months of the dispute. With this brief speech today, Mr President, I would like to urge the Government to exercise this delegation in good time, given that many Italian courts, including those in Bari and Asti, have already applied the rule on two entrepreneurs who in the past have been in a position to not be able to pay contributions worth EUR 6,000, making for them lose their criminal responsibility for the omitted payment. More specifically, the court of Asti has specified that the delegation law does not limit itself to regulating the internal relations between Government and Parliament, but constitutes a directly productive source of legal norms. In conclusion, Mr President, since 2008 there have been dramatic cases of entrepreneurs who, hard hit by the crisis, have not been in a position to comply with the obligations imposed by the law in favour of workers, including small figures, and for this reason have been the recipients of criminal sentences that have produced for those companies the application of strict rules for the eventual receipt of the DURC, making it worse the possibility and the ability of the latter to be on the market. For these reasons, I return to urge the Government to exercise its delegation in a timely manner. We cannot continue to allow different interpretations to take place between one court and the other of Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u99	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to remind you that on 6 March last Silvio Paoselli, the good miller of the lands around Rieti, left his family and his friends in the farmers' market of the Roman Castles and Capannelle. His body was found in the waters of Lake Salto, unfortunately dragged by its currents. Silvio killed himself because he learned that he had definitively lost possession of his mill/experimental mill Mola di Mezzo di Contigliano, which was foreclosed and auctioned by the banks, but not only. Silvio lost all hope and desire to live after having assisted helpless and dismayed, not only to the loss of his mill, but also to the dismantling of the precious ancient agricultural machinery that, with love and sacrifice, had collected in his house of agriculture, built in his mill in the Reatino. Silvio had dedicated his whole life to giving life to a dream, that is to reconstruct the memories of ancient cultivation and craft practices to combine them with modern agronomic techniques, aimed at the recovery of ancient grains that, unfortunately, were expelled from the production cycle of agro-industry. Silvio had even anchored his experiments in agronomic research with the University of Perugia in the experimental fields of the Reatino, making available to the end users his experiments. The tragic parable of the miller Silvio seems to realize the design of a singular individual destiny: a great passion turned off by the cruelty of banks and modern society. In fact, it is a case-by-case symbol of a serious crisis that has affected the entire primary sector. Small farmers and small processors are exasperated, who in this moment of crisis, crushed between the tyranny of the large distribution and the indifference of the institutions, find an outlet for their crisis only thanks to the direct relationship with the consumer, therefore in these markets from the producer to the consumer. I want to make you aware of an initiative that the Consorzio agri-food consortium of short supply chains and agricultural markets has implemented. It's a petition with signatures to channel the energy of a protest that could take unpredictable developments. At least the Leaders should have received the text of this petition, which is divided into three points. The first point calls for the sharing of Silvio's history, so that it does not remain an end in itself but serves to take action. Secondly, both Silvio's family and agricultural markets demand the acquisition of the mill mill of Mola di Mezzo by the Regional Agency for the Development and Innovation of Agriculture in Lazio to ensure that a dream is not subject to speculation. The third point calls for the establishment of a solidarity fund and a safeguard system for small farmers and farmers, who are at risk of losing the assets with which they survive. I ask both the Presidency and the various Commissions to join this petition, which I will take to the Agriculture Commission, to give the workers of our country the sign that the institutions are there. If possible, I would also like to ask you to observe - if I do not ask too much - a few moments of silence for Silvio.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u100	Senator Fattori, I would like to join your last invitation, but I would prefer to see these demonstrations taking place in a Chamber with a different number than what I see now. Therefore, if you wish, you will be able to propose the same invitation at the beginning of the sitting, under different numerical conditions. I think that's a sign of respect for the person we're talking about.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u101	Mr President, of course I accept your suggestion. However, I would like to point out that the sitting is not over. It is 12.20 p.m., and it is supposed that all the senators are following the House's work to the end, since that is why they are paying us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u104	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, after the Premier's statement in yesterday's speech at the Police College in Rome and after the votes on the amendments in 1st place, I would like to say that I am not in favour of this report. Commission on the Madia bill and the Minister's words, with the implementation of the PA delegation that will bring down the police corps from five to four, the unfortunate absorption of the State Guard Corps into other forces seems certain. We associate ourselves with the feeling of Sergeant Costa who is said without words and who says with such sadness and bitterness that he now understands that for many the environment is not a priority. But we don't give up. We are equally bitter but aware that this is not inevitable. This government only wants to please those who ask to remove controls to own traffics and own illicits in order always to favor the profit, of few against the welfare of all. Suffice it to say that according to Legambiente's 2014 Ecomafia Report, the State Forestry Corps carried out over 11,000 environmental investigations in 2013, the State Police that is not specialized police 65! And that Eurojust, which has been asking us for environmental crimes in the penal code for decades, has been asking us for as long, including a national body of specialized and coordinated environmental police at European level with other national forces; and what does this Government plan to do? To dismantle the Forest Corps of the State, because this is a question: to disperse knowledge and specialization and to kill the control, already at the very least, of the territories We have another proposal, explained in a bill before and in a motion, filed in December at the Senate. We call for these acts to be discussed as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u105	There is a representation in the forums of students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Giovanni Pascoli" of Silvi, in the province of Teramo, who are witnessing the conclusion of our works, to which we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u108	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask the question tabled on 17 April last year, which calls on the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to be a little more careful, and therefore also to give us answers, with reference to the work of the compulsory employment office which manages a number of citizens who, because of physical or family problems, are considered as people at risk. It is a very important social instrument, but we must make it work, we must respect the rules by thread and by token. We also call for checks to be made to ensure that there are no tampers in the management of lists. We know, in fact, that every person on the list in high position should be hired before the person on the bottom. Well: we asked the Ministry for further information as well as to verify whether in the logs, i.e. in the electronic codes that detect whether or not data has been tampered with, it turns out that there has actually been someone who has passed over some people who were entitled to it. It is a question that may seem like a niche, as they say, but it is not because it is very important. We must absolutely listen to the people and make sure that we at least oppose the arrogance of power. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u111	RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, thank you for giving me this opportunity. I also submitted a question in March 2014 to the Minister for Infrastructure - alas - unanswered after a year. I now announce the presentation of another question, 4-03656, concerning the work of the state road 640 linking Agrigento to Caltanissetta, which, as I read in the question, looks like Penelope's canvas. What's going on in those territories, President? It happens regularly that they open a section of the road and after only two months they close it because of a landslide, a landslide or works not perfectly compatible with the requirements of the specifications. Moreover, the works had to be delivered as early as September 2014 and months later there is still no mention of them. Moreover, I have denounced that under some bridges works are being carried out not perfectly in order (the complaint happened exactly on 9 September 2014) and having been heard in the Commission public works the President of ANAS, Dr Ciucci, I have put to the same, among the many questions, also that on the works relating to the state road 640, but, perhaps for reasons of time, I have not been able to answer. I therefore ask you, Mr President, after I submitted a question in March 2014 which I proposed again today, 18 March 2015, if I can ever have an answer. I hope that scandals about scandals do not happen because of this reality as well. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Ruvolo, we trust that Secretary Pizzetti will ask his colleagues to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u112	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-412.ana.u113	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 19 March, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.31 a.m.
