ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1676, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Vaccari, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u9	Madam President, Minister, Mrs Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law No 1676 laying down environmental provisions to promote green economy measures and to limit the excessive use of natural resources, linked to the public finance maneuver for 2014, which has already been approved in the House of Members, comes to this House after about eleven months from the start of its examination in the Environment Commission. It is certainly too long a time for the nature of the measure, which is linked to the law of stability, and for the importance of the measures contained therein. I would like to stress immediately that the work carried out in the Commission in this time that we leave behind has been broad and articulated and has seen the fruitful and constant collaboration between all the political forces present with the Government itself, starting from the coordinating role carried out by the Ministry of the Environment thanks to Minister Galletti, the undersecretaries Degani and Velo, so that a good text could be reached as shared and perfected as possible. The Commission has devoted 38 meetings to this measure, from 19 November last year to 30 September of this year, and a comprehensive round of hearings at nine meetings of the Bureau. It was a work that led to the collection of various proposals and the amendment of the House text in several points, with the aim of improving and completing it by inserting, for example, parts that the House had not finished experimenting or considering more useful, by the Government's will, the deletion of all articles concerning the topic of waste consortia in order to address it in a more organic and homogeneous way in a next measure. Before we proceed to the detailed examination of the article, I would like to make a few more general comments on the importance of this text. With this bill for the first time in a state law the title will bring back the words "green economy." It's not trivial or obvious. It is the signal that the reform season launched in the country also passes from the environment, that an economy that puts the environment at the centre represents a clear indication for our future, a future that will have to be sustainable and mark a radical change and that in order to be such a need for rules that first simplify the life of the companies that choose to operate in this field, that allow the same public administration to be greener and reduce the environmental impact of its action, organize efficient environmental services for their citizens, start a process of decarbonization from below, but not only. The rules also go in the direction of rewarding the virtuous behaviour of citizens, as well as of businesses and administrations, able to make an effective contribution to the development of the green economy. We are undoubtedly at a time when the legislator's intervention on these issues, opened up by the adoption of the environmental crime law, goes hand in hand with an increase in the responsibility and sensitivity of citizens to these issues. According to recent data, as many as 79 percent of Italians are willing to pay more for products and services with less environmental impact and to reconfigure their habits according to logics that are no longer felt as taxes, but normal. The same encyclical of Pope Francis "Laudato si'" also placed before the public opinion of our country, as well as of Europe and the world, themes and contradictions of our time, which have to do with the model of development, the relationship between man and the environment of life, between economy, environment and work with the effects of climate change, with individual behaviors and responsibilities. These are the choices that the greats of the earth will have in front of COP 21 in Paris in a few weeks. Much has been said in recent months about the importance of that precisely for the fate of the planet. Our country will be present with the will to make it decisive and reach binding decisions for everyone in the fight against climate change. In that perspective, I believe that this measure, thanks to the work of Parliament and the Government, can demonstrate the coherence of our country between saying and doing when it comes to sustainable development. Among the many issues that the measure deals with, there are some on which the text focuses in particular on our examination: prevention measures in the production of waste and the circular economy; sustainable mobility; prevention of hydrogeological risk; water measures. During the debate in the Commission, some amendments were also proposed on the subject of food waste, a subject that has never been discussed today and which has also been discussed several times at Expo2015. In particular, the amending proposal that I had tabled was intended to make the destination of products which could no longer be sold effectively viable for social solidarity purposes, including in order to remove such products from waste and destruction, thereby reducing the production of waste. These objectives were pursued through rules to simplify the existing tax provisions on value added tax and income taxes and through a partial extension of the beneficiary entities and categories of products admitted to donation with the involvement of local authorities. Despite the clarifications given to the Ministry of Economy and Finance it was not possible to accept it, but I hope that the issue can be resumed to give concrete answers, worthy of a country that has been carrying out innovative projects on this issue for some time. The issue of waste prevention policies is central. The text seeks to trigger a virtuous circle among all those involved in the production cycle, starting with producers until they return to them. The optics are in fact that of a circular economy, which replaces the linear model of the pick-up-production-consuma-butt with one in which all the waste becomes themselves resources. A number of provisions encourage the purchase of products derived from post-consumer materials. Firstly, it is possible to conclude agreements and programme contracts between public and private entities. The audience of the subjects includes also voluntary associations and trade associations of companies that deal with recycling and reuse, as well as those responsible for operating according to the principle of extended responsibility of the producer and companies that produce goods derived from recycled after-use materials. The programme agreements and contracts cover the provision of incentives for business activities to produce goods derived from recycled post-consumer materials and also for business activities to prepare post-consumer materials for their reuse. The National Waste Observatory, whose activity has ceased, and further extended functions are transferred to the Ministry of the Environment: verification of the achievement of waste objectives; development of one or more service contract schemes for the provision of integrated waste management; development of parameters for the identification of standard costs and definition of a fair and transparent tariff system based on the European principle of polluters, pays and full coverage of efficient operating and investment costs. A specific framework is also established on responsibility for the treatment of copper waste: it is expected that the initial producer or other holder of the waste that does not provide directly for its treatment should only deliver it to undertakings authorised for the transport and collection of waste, registered in the National Register of Environmental Managers. It is also expected that the simplified regime will not apply to the collection and transport of copper waste. A number of important changes are being made to the objectives for the separate collection of municipal waste. These objectives can be reported at the level of each municipality rather than at the territorial level. The special levy for the deposit of solid waste in landfill, the so-called ecotax, is paid directly to municipalities that have not reached the set differentiated collection rates (RD). The overcoming of certain levels of separate collection triggers reductions in the said special charge, according to a special table. The calculation of the degree of efficiency of separate collection shall be made annually on the basis of the data for each municipality. Each Region sets out a standard method for calculating and verifying separate collection. Individual domestic aerobic composting is authorised under certain conditions. Domestic users using this system will be subject to a reduction in the fee payable for the management of municipal waste. It is possible to build and operate aerobic composting plants of biodegradable waste in kitchens, canteens, markets, gardens and parks. Measures are included to increase separate collection and reduce the quantity of non-recycled waste, in order to allow the regions to promote incentive measures to be met by municipalities which, in addition to achieving the minimum recycling targets laid down by law, implement measures to prevent the production of waste. The rule, in addition to providing that such incentive measures will have to be paid by automatic and progressive means, provides that the regions, on the basis of the measures provided for in the National Programme, adopt regional programmes for the prevention of the production of waste. On this already full picture, the Commission intervened in the referent, providing that, for the programme agreements for the purchase of post-consumer materials, the involvement of materials found by the disassembling of complex products is envisaged; rewriting completely the rule on the prohibition of the abandonment of cigarette butts and chewing gum, replaced by the clearer diction of waste of small and very small dimensions, extending the legislation on waste also to the management of waste collected during the fishing activity, especially in the smaller islands; ensuring easier management of agricultural waste, produced by members of cooperatives that put suitable sites in place; introducing simplifications for waste from cleaning of sewage networks; encouraging composting practices, in particular with reference to that of community. Finally, in order to make it more applicable, the rule on the introduction of an experimental voluntary system, for one year, of the void to render, has been rewritten. While maintaining the objective of preventing the production of packaging waste and facilitating the reuse of used packaging, the vacuum to render is activated on a voluntary basis by the individual operator for packaging containing beer or mineral water served to the public. The trial will last twelve months, at the end of which, through a verification, the results will be evaluated to decide how and if to continue it. In the area of sustainable mobility, for the first time €35 million is allocated for the implementation of a national experimental programme of sustainable mobility home-school and home-work; among the projects financed by the national plan, the Commission has introduced, alongside those of car pooling, biking and biking sharing, also those of car sharing and pedibus. In addition, with two changes introduced in the contact person, the INAIL insurance cover for transfers by bicycle home-work and home-school, as well as the new figure of the school mobility manager, as a figure that can organize and coordinate the home-school trips of school staff and pupils. As regards interventions on the prevention of hydrogeological risk, I would like to remind you of the new discipline of the authorities of the basin, whose structure is completely redesigned, with the aim of making the new governance more effective and coordinated, involving in advisory function the agricultural associations and the National Association of Bonifices. Provision is made for the establishment of the Fund for the design of hydrogeological risk mitigation measures, with an automatic collection system, able to make certain resources available to bodies to design the necessary interventions. The discipline of the contracts of river, as voluntary instruments of strategic and negotiated programming, that pursue the protection and the correct management of the water resources and the valorization of the river territories, becomes part of the environmental code, while, with a modification to the law in the matter of construction, it is made so that it is considered obligatory in every practice also the legislation of protection of the hydrogeological order, in order to avoid to incur errors and disasters, still today to the honors of the chronicle, also in this same moment. Inserting a new article in Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006, there is a mechanism to facilitate, also through the provision of certain financial resources, the removal or demolition, by the Municipalities, of works and real estate realized in the areas of the Country, classified at high or very high hydrogeological risk, or exposed to hydrogeological risk, in the absence of permission to build or in total deviation from it. There is also the great issue of water and integrated water services, which the Commission has considered appropriate to supplement with the text that has been issued by the House. It is established, in fact, from 2016, at the Equalisation Fund for the electric sector, a Guarantee Fund for interventions aimed at strengthening water infrastructure throughout the national territory, to which a specific component of the tariff of the integrated water service is destined, determined by the Authority for electricity, gas and water system. On the other hand, it is expected that the Authority, after hearing the relevant bodies, will ensure to domestic users of the integrated water service under economic-social conditions the access to conditions facilitated to the supply of the amount of water necessary for the satisfaction of the fundamental needs. The possibility is also envisaged for the bodies concerned to assess the assimilation to domestic waste water, for the purpose of discharge into public sewers, and the waste water of vegetation of oil mills. The discharge of vegetation water in public sewers can be allowed on condition that the mayors of the municipalities of the resorts do not see criticalness in the purification system for the mills that treat olives exclusively from the regional territory and from farms whose soils insist in particularly characterized areas. The Commission has re-defined the priorities and arrangements for access to the water works guarantee fund and has re-introduced a specific article on morosity in the water service to introduce the guarantee of the minimum vital quantity for the dying users in need. In addition, the management of the water service has been regulated differently for mountain municipalities, provided that they are less than 1,000 inhabitants or have sources falling in protected natural areas. Before going on to illustrate very briefly the details of the articles, I would like to focus on the contents of articles 1, 2, 4, 5, 7 and 26. These are important measures which have to do with the sea and its protection and protection. We are talking about the shipwrecks of the sea and the accidents that in the past have involved them without any responsibility to pay for the damage they have caused. With this measure in the event of an accident the owner of the ship will be asked the damages for the pollution (with malicious and serious fault) also in relation to the inadequacy of the vessel to the transported cargo. And whoever owns the goods to be transported will have an obligation to make sure. New marine protected areas are then established and simplified rules on environmental impact assessments on water discharge activities and excavation material of seabeds and their handling. And again, in another article it is possible to identify sea ports with suitable sites in which to start operations of grouping of waste collected at sea during the fishing and management of marine protected areas. You may wonder, why these remarks? Because we are talking about content and themes that were proper to the battle of the mayor fisherman Angelo Vassallo [[Applause from the PD Group]] and which the foundation entitled to him had translated into a specific bill presented by fellow Members of the House in 2014, supported by a collection of popular signatures and the accession of many municipalities that adopted junta resolutions or support council. A dream, that of Angelo Vassallo, that with this provision we tried to make concrete and true to honor his memory. In the light of the details, the text proposed by the Commission consists of 78 articles, broken down into 11 chapters. I've already talked about the first one. The second chapter (Articles 7 to 8) introduces provisions on environmental and health impact assessment procedures. Article 7 provides for simplification rules on environmental impact assessments; Article 8 introduces a health impact assessment for projects relating to thermal power plants and combustion plants with a thermal output of more than 300 megawatts, as well as refining, gasification and gasification plants. Chapter III (Articles 9 to 14) provides for greenhouse gas emissions and energy production installations. Article 9 introduces amendments to Legislative Decree No 30 2013, on greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. Article 10 lays down provisions on environmental data collected by public entities and businesses. Article 11 amends Legislative Decree No 115 of 2008 on energy efficiency and self-production of electricity from industrial cycles and combustion processes. Article 12 introduces rules on the by-products that can be used in biomass and biogas plants, which have also recently been dealt with by television. Article 13 regulates the crossing of property by works of the national transmission network. Article 14 constitutes a provision for the authentic interpretation of Article 25 of Legislative Decree No. 28 of 2011 as regards the incentive mechanisms for renewable energies. Chapter IV contains provisions on green public procurement, better known as green procurement, by introducing provisions to facilitate the use of green procurement; by promoting the adoption of EMAS and Ecolabel systems; by indicating in the code of public contracts relating to works, services and supplies, the application of minimum environmental criteria for supplies and service assignments; by also seeking to address the environmental qualification of products of local production systems, industrial districts and supply chains that characterise the national production system. Article 21 then amends the new text of the general law on land books annexed to the Royal Decree of 28 March 1929, No 499, on building rights. Chapter V, consisting of Article 22 alone, contains incentive provisions for products derived from post-consumer materials or from the recovery of waste and materials from the disassembly of complex products, which I have already mentioned. Chapter VI regulates waste management, on which I prefer not to go back because I have mentioned almost all the elements that have characterized the work in the Commission. Chapter VII sets out provisions on soil protection. Article 51 introduces rules on Basin Authority, as I have said, completely reviewing the governance system. Article 52 provides for unfair property in areas subject to hydrogeological risk. Article 53 makes litoid materials subject to the rules on mining activities. Article 54 introduces amendments to the legislation on construction and silent consent, for the protection of hydrogeological structure. Article 55 establishes the fund for the design of hydrogeological risk mitigation actions. Article 56 provides for asbestos reclamation measures, with important incentives for companies. Article 57 simplifies the procedures for sites of Community importance. Chapter VIII (Articles 58 to 63) introduces provisions to ensure universal access to water, on which I have already intervened. Chapter IX, consisting of Article 64, introduces provisions on authorisation procedures relating to electronic communications infrastructure for radio-electric installations and on the exchange of used goods. Chapter X (Articles 65 and 66) lays down rules on the discharge and reuse of plant residues, of which I have already mentioned the characteristics. Chapter XI (Articles 67 to 78) introduces various environmental provisions. Article 67 - I would like to point out - establishes the Committee on Natural Capital, another real innovation of this measure. Article 68 establishes, at the Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, the catalogue of environmentally harmful subsidies and environmentally favourable subsidies. Article 69 provides for special waste management for certain economic activities. Article 70 delegates the Government for the introduction of systems for the remuneration of ecosystem and environmental services, another important and qualifying novelty of this measure. Article 71 establishes the oil free zones to promote the progressive exit from the carbon cycle economy, which will have to involve in particular local communities, municipalities, municipalities unions and mountain communities. Article 72 provides that the Presidency of the Council shall promote the preparation of the national strategy of the green communities. Article 73 lays down provisions on civil thermal installations powered by combustible gases. Article 74 regulates the management and sustainable development of the territory and works of public utility and protection of civic uses, so widespread in some regions of our country. Article 75 introduces important provisions on the implementation of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Animal Species. Article 76 introduces an extension of the time limit for the exercise of the delegation in the field of noise pollution. Article 77, on the other hand, introduces among the moving things absolutely impregnable the animals of affection or of companionship kept at the house of the debtor or in the other places belonging to him, without productive, food or commercial purposes, as well as the animals used for therapeutic or assistance purposes of the debtor. It is an important choice, wanted by the Government and also by the Commission in the last phase of discussion of the measure. Finally, Article 78 provides for some important measures in the field of dredging. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mrs Undersecretary, I have finished the illustration, which has been pedissequa, although I have left out a few parts and I have focused on the most important ones. The Commission has deleted Article 56 of the text drawn up by the Chamber of Deputies, which delegates to the Government in the field of noise pollution, in order to harmonise national legislation, and has instead accepted the Government's proposal that the articles relating to waste supply chain consortia should be deleted, again from the text drawn up by the Chamber of Deputies. It was a very important job, able to make available to this country a truly innovative choice on many fronts. And I hope that the debate, as well as the evaluation and discussion of the amendments that we will be able to make these days, will also further enrich and improve it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u10	We welcome a representation of the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo (Pacifics) of Sezze-Bassiano, in the province of Latina, who are today visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u11	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u12	Madam President, Minister, Mrs Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, today the provision for the attention of the Senate Assembly has been approved in the House and improved during the examination of the Senate Environment Commission with a long and articulated path, as the rapporteur, Senator Vaccari, has mentioned, which I thank with all the members of the Environment Commission. It contains important measures for the defence of the sea, for the circular economy, for the assessment of the health impact of energy plants, for the management and prevention of waste production, for the enhancement and improvement of green purchases by the public administration and for the protection of domestic animals. Moreover, the measure represents a very valuable opportunity to protect the hilly areas that represent 42 percent of the territory, the mountain and foothills that represent 35 percent and finally the plain that represents 23 percent of our country. The text also guarantees the independent management of the integrated water service for mountain municipalities under 1,000 inhabitants, the introduction of the oil free zone and a payment system for environmental ecosystem services and the creation of a fund for the design of hydrogeological risk mitigation interventions. In particular, I would like to highlight the rules to support the green economy and to promote sustainable mobility. The measure - as already mentioned - allocates 35 million euros to finance the national experimental program of sustainable mobility for territorial areas above 100,000 inhabitants. And this is very important because of the more than 8,000 Italian municipalities, only 141 have a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants and only 46 have a population of more than 100,000. All the other municipalities have quite inferior populations and for this reason this form of territorial scope is important. The incentive to environmentally friendly vehicles such as bicycles through different modes, but also the walking movements, with small caravans of children, the footbus, which winds through the cities with adults who accompany them safely. And then the mode "cut emissions" such as car sharing and bike sharing (which are the rental of cars and bicycles). This is a great opportunity to promote the coordination of the interventions of municipalities below that population range, because acting together is really more effective for territories with small municipalities that exceed that threshold. Another important measure is the extension of the INAIL insurance also to travel by bike home-work: in this way workers will be encouraged to choose the two wheels, because they will be covered in the event of an accident. So, the workers who move by bicycle will have this additional coverage. It is therefore a question of reducing the traffic of private cars. The aim is to reduce pollution through the promotion of alternative transport, with reduced or even zero environmental impact, through the use of electric cars or the bike/car sharing or the most innovative car/bike pooling, i.e. the sharing of the car or the small caravans of cyclists that are then accompanied by an adult in safety. It is - I said - a question of reducing private traffic, and not only that. They are measures that encourage truly virtuous behaviors that improve people's quality of life as well as the air we breathe. Mr Vaccari first recalled the circular economy, the circularity of this bill, which is really very important. There is well-being in the field. We have heard of relations with the school, with health (there is logically an interaction); and then there is the provision aimed at creating also a section on the website of the Ministry of the Environment called "Sustainable mobility" where they are inserted and tracked, for the sake of transparency - and this is really very important - the funding provided for this programme. There is a change of pace, a change of lifestyles and behavior of citizens. I work in the Commission on merit and green Italy already exists. It is an important part of our economy, one fifth of total companies, with one third of manufacturing companies investing in the environment. Those who made environmental investments in 2014 have 60 percent of work right here; it is a very competitive part of the economy that exports more, innovates more, seeks more, produces more jobs. Let's think about the potential of reuse, reuse, recycling, exchange and recovery. In Italy there are 24 million tonnes of raw material recovery compared to 22 in Germany. A green Italy that already exists, with 340,000 companies - 22 percent of the total - that rely on the green economy; they are protagonists of export and innovation and in 2015 they will have allowed the recruitment of as many as 234,000 people. Green economy companies employ three million operators applying green skills in the various sectors of industrial activities and also in the tertiary sector. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, please. FAVERO (PD). In conclusion, the measures contained in the measure represent a model of development, and in particular enhance the ecological and environmental role of the rural and mountain areas of our country, protecting the health of Italian citizens. There are new pages of environmental policies no longer bent on the emergency of the environment, which therefore becomes no longer the brake on development but a driver, for that recovery that also promotes environmental sustainability. A broad horizon in which the PD is really the protagonist in full title: "#unitaliacheriprendere" "#unitaliachecambia". [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u13	Senator De Siano is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as the then Environment Minister Orlando said at the end of 2013, this had to be the bet on the environment, for its respect and protection and to increase the extraordinary potential for economic development. It was the Minister's words. After almost two years of work in this Parliament, what have we achieved? A profoundly modified text, following a real upheaval that began in the Commission on the merits of the House of Deputies and continued until now in this House: new articles have been added, others have been radically rewritten, still others have been deleted and some have been deleted. Today we are examining a text which, after a long examination in the Environment Commission, has come to include, as the rapporteur has said, 78 articles dealing with various subjects. At the same time, and inevitably, in a regulatory cauldron of this type, it was not possible to achieve an adequate degree of deepening of the measures envisaged, and instead a careful examination of the open issues that pertain to our environment was, on the contrary, necessary and urgent. We know that our country has great natural resources and environmental uniqueness to protect and enhance. On the other hand, we cannot forget also the other side of the medal: we have a territory with a strong hydrogeological risk for various causes, from geological configuration to the articulated drainage grid, from the often excessive anthropization of the territory to the lack of prevention and maintenance of the potentially most dangerous areas. We discussed motions to achieve the contrast of hydrogeological failure, well aware of the numbers of these structural problems. The areas most exposed to hydrogeological risk account for almost 10% of the Peninsula and account for about 80% of the municipalities. Millions of Italian citizens are exposed to the risks of calamitous events, which could affect, among other things, hundreds of public buildings and also involve schools and hospitals. Since the second post-war period, in Italy we have had more than 5,000 victims, compared with total damage estimated at more than 60 billion euros. Just these days are the terrible news coming from my Region, Campania, where torrential rains, floods and floods of rivers have occurred, causing damage that already amount to over 500 million euros, hitting as many as seventy companies and the bad weather warning, especially in the affected areas of Sannio, is not yet finished. Even in contrast to hydrogeological failure the action of this Government has so far been shy and stuttering. The national plan on this matter is already one year late and will probably not be able to see the light before the end of next year. Meanwhile, the government proceeds with projects that, however important, take on a sectoral character, such as those concerning large cities and metropolitan areas. Moreover, these last interventions have only been financed by half and the next law of stability, as the Environment Minister himself admitted during last week's question time, does not provide for any further allocation. The issue of the security of the territory is an absolute priority of action for the health and safety of our fellow citizens and also constitutes a great opportunity for the relaunch of investments in sectors historically in crisis, such as infrastructure and construction. It is almost superfluous to remember that a valorization of natural resources and a balanced development of our territory constitute the basis for the restart of a green economy, which contributes in a fundamental way to the economic revival of our country. The potential is there. According to the latest data, the green economy has grown even in the years of the great global crisis. According to the United Nations Organisation for Industrial Development, the turnover of the sector, which in 2005 amounted to 990 billion euros worldwide, could increase more than double in 2020, to reach 2,200 billion euros. The ENEL foundation has estimated that a development of the energy efficiency sector, in addition to the undeniable benefits in terms of reducing harmful emissions into the atmosphere, could create a turnover of 64 billion euros and 460,000 jobs. However, development prospects of this kind need a stable and clear regulatory environment, where public resources must also be understood. All these ingredients, unfortunately, are not included in the bill under consideration. Forza Italia has fought for a greater simplification of bureaucratic procedures and for the introduction of ideas and rewards for the virtuous examples and good practices, which have also been and are being carried out in our country. We cannot mortify the initiatives of hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs who focus on the sustainable growth of our economy. We cannot force them into brainy administrative procedures and impose an exceptionally higher level of taxation on them than all the more developed European countries. Overall, once again, we see a government pointing in the right direction, but stopping at the first step of a marathon. A non-linear and non-structural environmental policy, such as the one that emerges from this measure, will only help to create more confusion for operators in the sector and will not bring any benefits in terms of environmental protection and economic growth. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u15	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u16	Good morning, Minister, and well found. I will speak for seven minutes and try to be quite clear about this measure, Minister. I tried to read it in depth twice to try to find some good, but I couldn't find any. I will try to argue without any controversy; we have known each other for years, Mr Galletti, and I hope to be proactive in this respect. I would first like to stress how unfortunately in our country, when we talk or try to talk about the environment, we still cannot find that functional mix that exists in all the measures that are adopted in Europe by other countries far more advanced than we and much more sensitive than we from this point of view. Environmental policy and energy policy is the functional mix for healthy land management, but also for green economy. Unfortunately, we live in a country where the principle is not to emit less CO2 and use less energy, but to have energy at a lower cost. This is a huge mistake and we see it; just go around the country and see the construction sites and buildings that are in almost all the country. We speak and fill our mouths with energy certification, class A, class up and class down; the truth, dear colleagues, is that in our country we are still building in a medieval way, as in the seventies, in too many cases unfortunately. Someone says to be quiet, because there is certification and in the municipality have been brought all the related cards. I ask you, Minister, but have you ever been in the technical office of a municipality to look at the papers that are being brought for certification? First of all, I challenge most technicians - someone will take it hard, but I don't care - to certify that what they read is the truth. These are rather voluminous decks of cards, with photocopies on photocopies, which certify what no one can read. The energy class is not made like in certain countries, where Minergie is spoken in a serious way and the certification is indicated on a label outside the building; that is another thing. By the way, Minister, I would also like to tell you something about this measure, which talks about land planning, energy, the environment and so on. Allow me to say - I say this very quietly - that I have read some commitment, on environmental and energy policy in Europe, to countries far more civilized than we do: well in those documents - I say it a bit ironically - pets, footbus and cigarette butts are not found. These are things that come next; energy policy is something else, much stronger. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] Let me give you just one example, which you will know better than I do, Minister. I do not want to see the energy policy in this House being adopted in the Federal Council in Bern (Switzerland 2050), where they have decided to abandon the atom and have written a text which, in my opinion, is quite tough and worth reading, for those who are passionate about these issues, like myself. I'll tell you more, Minister. We can also talk about territory in here. I appeal to you to intervene so that mechanical engineers no longer make regulatory plans in our country. That's the truth, Minister. I am not talking about civil engineers, like my colleague Cioffi, who is still a civil engineer; as an architect I say that, if the latter want to make the regulatory plans, we can also let him do them, since in our country armed cements also make them architects. However, the planning of the territory is not done by mechanical engineers or electronic engineers, with whom I have an excellent relationship, but which have nothing to do with the planning of the territory. You, within this measure, speak to me of a hydrogeological plan. I would like to make another appeal to you, Minister, to intervene so that in this country all the Provinces approve the plans for hydrogeological planning. In fact, I'm pretty angry about that too, and I'll explain why. In my Province we have adopted and approved and then modified and then adopted and approved twice the hydrogeological plan, but unfortunately in our Country there are Provinces where the hydrogeological plan does not know and still build in the beehive. Afterwards, you must run busy and busy, Minister, as we have seen you do these days, because our country is in great suffering in this respect. Of course, live God, if these are the conditions! A further appeal: if you write the norms, especially in the plan of hydrogeological order, in which you affirm that you must relocate the productive areas in exondabile zone in belt B), well I tell you that these dispositions are good if they are thought for the auction of the Po, because moving a concrete plant of two kilometers does not change anything, but on the auction of the Adda, above the lake of Como, or on the auction of other Lombard or Venetian rivers above the lakes maybe it is more difficult, because you have to bring the productive zones in the mountains, so it is not good. Therefore the norm must be written according to the territory and at this point we return to bomb on the matter. You claim that the territory must be managed locally. Of course, however, you are taking away everything, including the management of the territory, which is done in a very brief way, because in Rome you will decide on a map as must be the hydrogeological plan, the planning of the territory, the energy policy of a territory not knowing that territory and not making it do to those who are on the territory and things know them. It is therefore the principle that is wrong, Minister. I could go on, but I see that my time is running out, and I am sure that colleagues who have read the text with me will be able to speak on time and in a great spirit. I had a lot to say to you in order to improve the measure, but I will tell you four eyes if there is a chance, Minister. However, I believe that, as my colleague said, it will be difficult for us to put a hashtag and say that we are phenomena, that is to say, we are phenomena; rather, we are smokefaces, or, as far as I'm concerned, the commonplace from the point of view of the territory and energy policy. I conclude by saying that this is the country of 'or sun, as my colleague Cioffi says, so I wonder if it is ever possible that the down great producer of solar thermal is not an Italian factory but Austrian. Among other things, the largest number of roofs covered with solar thermal are not in the country of'or sun, but in Austria, Switzerland or in the alpine areas. Minister, on Italian energy policy there is something that does not work if in the country of the sun, where the unluckiest of all has at least 1,280 hours of sunshine per year, for solar thermal not even the most performing panels and producers, such as Viesmann and Sonnenkraft, are those of other countries. This is energy policy. Therefore, with great respect, I tell my colleagues to study before they fill their mouths, because they will be rejected on energy policy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Bignami and Campanella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u17	Senator Ferrara Elena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u18	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is a growing public awareness of the importance of protecting the environment, an objective to be pursued at 360 degrees, with actions that move and involve the individual and the institutions; interdisciplinary, related and structural actions. We also see this in this House, where we voted this morning in favour of a measure, the one on biodiversity, which is going in that direction, and we find it in this afternoon sitting, where we are discussing an innovative text, a bill for the green economy, a rule that really looks to the future with ambition. The citizens, who are increasingly attentive and responsible in their daily choices, demand this first of all, as well as the political agendas of the major intellectual organizations. This is what the regions and local self-governments have been asking for for for a long time, in particular from the guidelines of Agenda 21 in 1992, they have been working on good practice and alignment with European directives and international strategies. I am referring to administrators engaged in strategic issues such as waste cycle management, asbestos treatment, sustainable mobility, water management, soil consumption and hydrogeological failure. Today we are debating a bill, which is very much awaited, which responds to a regulatory need for firm points in terms of programming and procedures, but which also defines important points of balance between protection and development, identifying national and international perspectives. In particular, I would like to stress the attention paid to the world of school. I would like to point out that even if the article on the energy efficiency of schools and the fight against noise has been deleted, these elements are well reflected in the reflection that is being done in the direction booth - I am referring to the mission structure for school construction incardinated by the Presidency of the Council - and are leading us to intertwine building innovation and new educational models also in the light of innovative school projects. I would like to thank the Environment Commission, the rapporteur Vaccari and the Government for further developing in the Senate the article on sustainable mobility home-work and home-school-home. The so-called connected environment recognizes in fact the value of experiences such as the footbus, the bike bus, the bike sharing, the bike pooling and the car pooling, organized today on a voluntary level in many realities. These are good environmental practices and education to healthier and more economically sustainable lifestyles, which become a system, so much so that in paragraph 6 of Article 4 the figure of mobility manager in schools has been introduced, i.e. a contact person to coordinate initiatives and practices also in accordance with the network with other schools. The attention to the student needs a comparison between the school autonomy and the local administrations in the search for functional solutions, in particular for the most uncomfortable commuters who attend upper secondary schools. The Ministry of Education, University and Research is called upon to develop guidelines aimed at optimising synergistic pathways. This dialogue can have a positive impact on regional mobility choices and - I am referring in particular to Piedmont, which is my region and of which I know the critical issues - it can lead to new solutions, also in the face of the funding provided for in the measure under consideration. It is precisely on an important part of the Piedmontese territory, which involves the Provinces of Novara, Biella and Vercelli, that has another action of the so-called connected environment: I refer to the establishment of oil free zones (Article 71). It is a matter and a measure that I have been following carefully for a long time. For this area the environmental impact of possible oil drilling interferes on a model of development strongly characterized in terms of high quality agricultural production and promotion of the territory. For this reality, as for many others, the norm of the so-called connected environment represents an opportunity, as evidenced by the experiences in which the oil free zones have long been started and positive paths. The creation of areas where oil and its derivatives are expected to be gradually replaced by renewable energy sources is certainly an ambitious objective. We need places where to start experiments and new hypotheses of growth and research, as well as entirely innovative productive activities that must be supported with precise choices, and the municipalities that promote these zones must be supported also through the formation of Unions of reference municipalities, adopting a specific act of direction. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we choose and choose to take the most virtuous path, the one that sees us alongside local administrations, regions and citizens. After the approval in recent months of five norms on agriculture and interventions on education, culture and tourism, is added today another piece to a mosaic that returns the image of a country projected towards new challenges, through a model of sustainable growth and development from the environmental, social and economic point of view. It is an overall process that finds a synthesis in the letter e), paragraph 7, of article 1 of the recent school reform law, which combines in a single objective the development of responsible behaviour inspired by knowledge and respect for legality, environmental sustainability, landscape goods, heritage and cultural activities. I believe that all these measures are shaping a new country: a country of change, a country that will reserve us a sustainable development according to respect for the environment. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u19	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u20	Madam President, Minister, I know that our speeches in this House will be heard from you and will certainly use them as best they can. I do not know whether my reflection can be taken seriously or not, but, as colleagues do, I will do too. I will make my speech by trying to suggest something and hoping that my reflection will not only be sarcastic, but that in part, today or tomorrow, it will become a reality. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are finally debating in this House the measure No 1676-A, which has been before Parliament since February 2014, linked to the Law of Stability of the Led Government. Reading the title it is understood that this bill should promote measures of green economy, green economy and the containment of the excessive use of natural resources but, as I will say shortly, it comes to comprehend the most varied and desperate topics; it is what in English is called melting pot (in Italian "big container") in green version, and represents a direct consequence of the biblical times that have been used so far for the examination of the provision. The House of Deputies approved the measure at first reading in November last year. The Senate Environment Commission took almost a year to complete the examination of the articles after receiving many trade associations and representatives of the sector at the hearing and analysed numerous amendments by the rapporteur and the government. Obviously the process of this provision will not be completed with the examination of the Senate in view of the profound changes made here in relation to the text of the House. The hope remains that, given the fundamental issues of fundamental social and economic importance dealt with, the further transition to the House can be completed as quickly as possible. This we hope because, despite some progress on specific issues, the protection of the environment and the care of the territory in our country remain residual themes both for the resources invested, and for private public media attention. Colleagues, relegating the great environmental issue in the background represents a lack of strategic vision unforgivable for Italy if we think of the environmental uniqueness and natural riches that mother nature has given us. We therefore have a duty to preserve these precious resources and to use them in a manner that is both respectful and responsible and profitable for the development of the country. Just to give an example, Coldiretti points out that tourism linked to nature in the years of the crisis has recorded, in sharp contrast to other sectors, an increase of 21 percent in turnover compared to the 2007 level, up to reaching the record figure of 11.9 billion in 2014. Further growth is expected for 2015. Moreover, the presence of natural tourism in Italy exceeded for the first time 102 million in 2014. This type of tourism is the main destination of the 871 parks and protected natural areas of our country, which extend to cover 10 percent of the national territory. From another point of view, I would like to remind you that almost 16% of the municipal area is included in protected natural areas. But it is a patrimony, as mentioned, that must be preserved with a constant work of monitoring the state of the places and preparation of interventions to solve the problems encountered, beginning with the most urgent. Among these, I would like to mention an issue that came to light just last week on the occasion of the question time with the Minister for the Environment Galletti. A great sorrow for our country, in fact, concerns the disposal and collection of waste: according to Confartigianato, the Italian system generates an inefficiency in the public disposal service of about 1.1 billion euros. Moreover, within two years, from 2013 to 2015, the prices of waste collection increased well by 10.2 percent. With regard to the eurozone's waste tariffs, in Italy, in recent years, tariffs have increased by 23.7%, almost twice as much as in the countries that have adopted the euro. This is a fact not only that we care, but that it has gone and goes significantly to weigh on the costs of the service and on the budgets of every single family and enterprise. According to the ISPRA data of 2014, the municipalities of the Regions with ordinary status receive 7.8 billion euros as proceeds for the management of the waste. The levy for the management of waste from the pockets of citizens and businesses serves to pay also those pockets of waste and inefficiencies that in the supply of this service amount to 13.7% of the total of the rates collected. The main problem lies in the achievement of a correct collection of waste and some regions are unable to bring this cycle of work to an end. We have all seen the images broadcasted on the news of garbage dumpsters filled with garbage, masses of black bags at the edges of them and on the edges of the streets. The cities of Rome and Naples as landfills to the open area, from the historic center to the outskirts. It is no coincidence that the bad management of waste for the Campania Region has led the European Court of Justice to pay a lump sum of EUR 20 million and a penalty of EUR 120,000 for each day of delay of the information to be transmitted to the European Commission. The Lazio Region is not affected by any financial fine by the European Union but, pursuant to Article 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Italy is condemned for failing to establish an integrated waste management and waste network in the Lazio Region to ensure the proper treatment of municipal waste delivered to landfills. In addition, we have a national waste collection problem and it's called abusive waste disposal. This anomaly led our country to pay a flat-rate penalty of EUR 40 million on December 2, 2014, the amount paid - the Minister certainly knows better than me - in February 2015. Added to this fine, a six-monthly penalty of €42.8 million... PRESIDENT. I invite you to conclude, Senator. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I have many other things to say, but given that the time available to me is short, in order to give Members the opportunity, and in particular the Minister, to read what I intended to say in this House, I would ask that I be able to attach my speech to the proceedings, hoping that the Minister will make good use of it, not by integrating its contents into his daily work, but at least by reflecting on them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u21	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Scilipoti. Unfortunately, we have quota times, so we have to be quite strict. Thank you, however, for your cooperation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u22	There is a delegation from Montenegro, led by Deputy Prime Minister Duško Marković, together with the Ambassador of Montenegro to Italy, Antun Sbutega, and the Italian Ambassador to Montenegro, Vincenzo Del Monaco, to whom we extend a warm welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u23	Senator Sollo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u24	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this House today is being called upon to dismiss a bill containing environmental provisions to promote green economy measures and to limit the excessive use of natural resources. The promotion of measures to promote the development of the green economy and, above all, policies to combat the unscrupulous use of natural resources, which has been done so far, constitute a further step forward in the implementation of those environmental reforms, necessary and indispensable, in order to build the path of our future. The future of our country, in fact, can only be based on an economy that makes the environment the pivot of development. Only by focusing on innovation and quality can we hope to return to being protagonists in an increasingly globalised world. The measure under consideration, together with the reform of environmental agencies, complements the process initiated by the adoption of the Eco-Ray Law and, as rapporteur for that law, which has been awaited for twenty years, I have been able to see that only through the definitive approval of the measures contained in these three legislative acts will we be able to effectively promote the development of quality companies, putting definitively on the margin that unhealthy entrepreneurship, which is one of the main protagonists of corruptive phenomena, as well as of violence to the environmental heritage. I would like to stress the particular attention this legislature is paying to environmental issues: just think about the issues of the land of fires, environmental crimes, the environmental connection and the environmental agency. In what is called the most unfortunate of the legislators there is certainly extreme attention to the environment and to everything around it. I therefore believe that this can only be an honor to us. I come from a region like Campania, where for decades the organized underworld, together with an unscrupulous entrepreneurship, has made easy business with the illicit disposal of waste, collecting the worst toxic waste, thinking well to hide them underground, under that Campania Felix from which our best products were born. They buried them so well as to compromise even one of the most precious goods, such as water. Not only that: we have distinguished ourselves also and above all for the easy cement and we hold the primacy of creative abusing. But then we discover dioxin products, blue mozzarella, the dead of the land of fires and the dead of floods. Look at what has happened in these days at Benevento: this is only the last example of how, in the long run, the wrong choices are paid at a high price. We are beginning to feel and see the side effects, social and environmental, of production systems, which, for decades, have not taken into account the delicacy of natural resources, such as global warming, the disappearance of water resources, plastic at sea and the mass death of animals and plants. Thus, issues such as sustainability, redevelopment and containment have become part of our daily life. In recent years something has changed, people's consciousness has grown, along with a sense of responsibility towards nature and the fight against waste. In this way, policy, by putting these measures in place, is beginning to give a concrete response to solve such complex problems. I hope that my Region, all the Mezzogiorno, Italy will seize the opportunity that this new vision of the future can generate. I am thinking of the possibility of converting production chains based on the concept of circular economy for the reclamation of compromised land, for the redevelopment of the entire industrial areas disused and - why not - also for the proper disposal of ecoballs. In this bill we will give incentives and tax relief to companies that will base their production on materials from separate collection and disassembly of discarded products. Another opportunity can be represented by the policies of redevelopment of the containment of the consumption of the soil. We have allocated funds for 10 million euros for 2014 for the demolition by the Municipalities of works and real estate realized in areas of the Country exposed to hydrological risk or in absence or in discrepancies of the permit to build. There are many provisions in this bill. The river basin authorities are set up to prevent flooding and manage the main courses of the Italian rivers; it will be easier to clean up sites of Community interest; the municipalities will also be able to establish oil free zones in association with each other. New much tougher provisions are taken against the famous blue carts; sustainable mobility is encouraged in the daily home-work and home-school routes, urging the use of the two wheels (bikes) - as has already been mentioned by the rapporteur - and with insurance coverage in case of accidents. All schools will have a mobility manager competent to reduce and simplify student travel. It will be easier for public administrations to make green purchases; differentiated collection and reuse of reusable materials through municipalities is encouraged; the vacuum returns to make; the made green in Italy is established. And I think it is extremely important to mention, having been fought a struggle for many years, the universal right to water with the minimum guaranteed even to morose users. As you can see, there are so many initiatives that have been taken, and there is only a chance in this House of improving them. The rapporteur himself said in his introduction that he hopes that this draft law will be further improved here in the House. I mean, we have to turn the wounds of the past into opportunities. Only in this way will our nation be able to redeem itself and surely the measure under consideration indicates and simplifies the way forward. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u25	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u26	Madam President, Madam Undersecretary Degani, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that this measure is the environmental link to the 2014 Stability Act, while we are already at the 2016 Budget Session. In fact, we should be, given that the text of the stability law, which was so flagrant last week by Prime Minister Renzi, has not yet been seen. The government bill was presented by the Letta Executive on 12 February 2014 and incardinated to the House at first reading; it was one of the last measures of that government team before it was defenestrated by Renzi. The initial text consisted of 31 articles and was discharged at first reading by Montecitorio on November 13, 2014, after a large work of parliamentary modification that led the content to have 57 articles. Transmitted to the Senate on 17 November 2014, the bill immediately held a stand between the various and various works of the Environment Commission, with over 40 hearings held in December and January of the current year, between consortia, business associations and environmental associations. The work continued with a long and demanding amending activity, which ended last 30 September, characterized by several successive amending proposals, with relative sub-amendments, several stop and go, in particular due to reflections by the Government. The text presented today by the Assembly is the result of a further major change in relation to the House text. Despite the fact that six articles have been deleted in the Commission - a decision which the House will be asked to confirm - we have 79 articles left to our attention. It should be noted that, with respect to the rules initially proposed by the Letta Government, there is only one article left, the original article 2, now article 3. With this premise I mean that - on the one hand - while outside, in the real world, Italian companies live and suffer from competition, huge taxes, bureaucracy, daily problems and face with difficulty the ever faster dynamics of the market; on the other hand, the same companies assist a Parliament and a Government that dwell two years on a measure, although important, of course admitted and not allowed to have the Chamber of Montecitorio fired immediately and without amending it further. I am afraid I am not mistaken in saying that, having become a law, the measure will be ineffective because it is dispersive, given the omnibus character increased over time; it takes away many competences from the regions and centralizes them to the state, failing the principle of subsidiarity; for its implementation it refers to many regulations and to about 50 - I repeat 50 - implementing decrees, between ministerial and the President of the Council, which will see the light in months if not years. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] Not only delays: once again there will be an increase in the already asphyxiating bureaucracy and, therefore, the difficulty of companies, with the risk of short circuits in the rules. The measure, then, brings into play very few new economic resources. In some parts, these are only round matches, within the framework of funds within the Ministry of the Environment. So, many fine intentions will remain unnecessarily on paper. Even the chapter on land protection provisions, with seven dedicated articles, is not adequately accompanied by resources. The prevention of hydrogeological failure will once again remain ineffective and left alone on paper and I fear that, in this sense, the next law of stability will also disappoint. Finally, the measure gives additional functions and tasks to ISPRA, the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research, which too many times - and I repeat too many times - in the past has clearly manifested itself as inefficient and incompetent. We highlight these criticalities in the well-founded fear that the same overcomes the initial objectives of the measure, which, like the North League, a movement that has always been at the forefront for the protection of the environment and the territory, we could understand and share. I refer to the explanation of vote the list of the main lights of the measure, the shadows, the marches that never lack - even in this measure are present - and the contradictory aspects of the text, aware that the amending phase of the next few hours could change its contents again and - I hope - not in a further worsening sense of the text. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u27	Senator Orrù is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u28	Madam President, today's draft law, linked to the 2014 public finance maneuver, contains important measures in relation to environmental and sustainable development policies. The measure has been greatly enriched thanks to the careful and timely work of the 13th Commission, territory and environment, and in particular the rapporteur, Senator Vaccari, and is of great importance for the impact on the entire Italian ecosystem, also having great attention to those centres that constitute an excellence in our landscape. With this measure - I would like to remind you - the first Italian law for the green economy was born and the important work done in the Commission allows to deliver to the examination of the Assembly an innovative text that aligns Italy among the leading countries in the attention to sustainable development. One of the objectives of this measure was to streamline many administrative procedures in order to make the use of sustainable economic instruments as convenient as possible in order to prevent pollution. Many measures are contained, but the wider issue is the reuse of materials and this measure supports and encourages a sector that is both vital to the economy and the environment. I would like to focus in particular on the provisions to encourage the purchase of products from post-consumer materials included in the new Articles 206-b, 206-c, 206-d and 206-e of Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006. First, the new Article 206-b of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006 allows the conclusion of agreements and contracts of program between public and private subjects; the audience of the subjects includes (with public bodies and public and private subjects) also voluntary associations, trade associations and companies that deal with recycling and reuse, as well as the subjects entrusted to operate according to the principle of extended responsibility of the producer and the companies that produce goods derived from recycled after-use materials, with priority for goods coming from the separate collection of waste. The agreements and the contracts of program - as the rapporteur has well remembered - have to object the supply of incentives to the entrepreneurial activities of production of goods deriving from recycled materials after consumption and to the entrepreneurial activities of preparation of the materials after consumption for their reuse, as well as to the activities of commercialization of products and components of products reused for the same purpose for which they were conceived. Another very important point is the identification by the Minister of the Environment, after consulting the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, within three months of the date of entry into force of the law, of sea ports equipped with suitable sites where to start operations of grouping and management of waste collected during fishing activities or other activities of underwater tourism. A subsequent decree of the Minister of the Environment, in agreement with the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, is entrusted with the discipline of the procedures, the modalities and the conditions for the extension of these activities to other ports. With the modification under consideration it is entrusted to the municipalities, instead of the Regions, as currently planned, the care of the procedures for the custody of the service of management of the waste, in agreement with the marine authority. I have followed with particular interest the process of this measure having also signed, together with other colleagues, some amending proposals accepted by the Government. One relates to the cleaning of the seabed in protected areas, which involves the involvement of the managing bodies of marine protected areas, through special programme agreements, in the operations of grouping and management of waste collected during fishing activities. The other amendment allows municipalities that have legal seat in the smaller islands and those in whose territory they insist smaller islands, to establish a landing contribution, as an alternative to the residence tax, whose revenue will be allocated to the financing of waste collection and disposal, to the recovery and protection of the environment as well as to actions in the fields of tourism, culture, local police and mobility. The smaller islands and protected Italian marine areas constitute a great natural and tourist richness of our country and especially of Sicily. The measure all and the special attention to these areas of our territory give a further signal of protection, protection and involvement, as well as of economic incentive, to those areas that make our islands and our seabed one of the most attractive resources of Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Companione. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the environmental link finally arrives in this House. It is a measure that has experienced a troubled iter, often interrupted by the pressing of other emergencies, but certainly long awaited. In the Commission we can say that we have done a good job. A text came out where we really gave a significant boost to the green economy and sustainability strategy with particular reference to the green community. We have had a national strategy that expressly indicates the value of rural and mountain areas that intend to set up a sustainable development plan from the point of view of energy, environmental, economic, tourism and mobility services. Work has also been done to harmonise our standards with certain European directives, such as noise pollution. Good rules have been developed concerning the increase of resources for marine protected areas, the encouragement of sustainable mobility projects with the forecast of resources of EUR 35 million, the introduction of a tax credit to the extent of 50% of the costs incurred for those implementing asbestos reclamation operations. Further provisions have been developed to apply minimum environmental criteria in public procurement, as well as on soil protection, we have provided for a significant role of reclamation consortia. This is certainly a good step forward, but not an exhaustive one, but it can help to deal seriously with the major problem of hydrogeological disruptions and permanent maintenance of the territory. Addressing myself in a heartfelt way to the present Undersecretary Degani, I say that a provision, which I have often hoped for, that allows consortia throughout the national territory to form a system, a method by which to intervene in the prevention of hydrogeological failure, could be an idea on which to work, and the fact that the Government is imagining ad hoc legislation I believe can represent a starting point to carry out a positive reasoning. The link also contains good rules on waste management, with particular reference to the cornerstones of the modern circular economy, such as the reduction of waste production, reuse and recycling. At an amendment stage in the Commission, we have put forward some proposals for improving the measure - and I thank my colleagues in the Commission for that - which have been accepted and transposed into the text that came out of that place and which is now coming to our attention. I refer in particular to the rules laid down in Articles 37 and 38 of the text on the treatment of waste by aerobic composting and to measures to facilitate the dissemination of composting of organic waste. We were also passionate about packaging, and on this issue - we believe it is essential to look seriously at a strategy for reducing the production of waste - I believe that the Commission should have had a little more courage. In other words, I would certainly like to express my appreciation for the voluntary introduction of the vacuum system to bail packages containing mineral water or beer, but I do not think that is enough. We are convinced that the economic leverage must be used well to encourage citizens to take on life styles that are tense towards recycling and reuse. This has happened - for example - for domestic users who decide to use the system of individual aerobic composting, to which will apply a reduction in the fee due for the management of municipal waste. There are good rules, therefore, which allow the regions to promote economic incentive measures for municipalities implementing measures to reduce the amount of waste not recycled, but this certainly cannot be enough, as other colleagues have said. In fact, not all regions are efficient and active and therefore it is necessary that at the stronger central level are not only the addresses, but also the control of the timing of the adjustments binding on the Regions. We have seen it and we see it regularly: not all regions are able to implement the plans, which is why it is necessary for the Government to play its part and be incisive towards them. We cannot, therefore, agree with the rules for the regions, which, within one year of the date of entry into force of the link, must integrate their regional waste management plans with the development of a special programme for the reduction of biodegradable waste to be landfilled. This too, however, is not enough because the government must probably also know and be able to impose itself on certain regions - we see it, for example, regularly with regard to Liguria, or even Sicily or - which in reality cannot carry out the programmes. On packaging - for example - more should have been done, introducing an incentive system for operators who accept to equip themselves with tools for the removal of non-dangerous packaging, even not intended for food use, of the products sold in order to provide for their final delivery in compliance with the provisions of the law. In the face of this withdrawal, the citizen could obtain bonuses to spend and the operator a facility from the municipality regarding the municipal waste disposal tax. Again, I ask the attention of Mrs Undersecretary: what we imagine is a simple system, however tested in several Italian and European cities, which allows us to achieve four objectives: reduce the mass of waste; reduce the costs of management for the municipality and then for citizens, who would enjoy incentives for spending, and implement the levels of re-used and recycled matter, thus cooperating to achieve the overall strategic objectives of the country. It would be sufficient, therefore, to introduce this mechanism in order at last to encourage reuse and recycling and to reduce costs for municipalities and citizens. This already happens in many parts of Germany and - as we have seen - it is growing, in a voluntaristic way, often not consolidated, even in many Italian cities. All this - the advance - is, however, the subject of our amendment, which I have tabled for the House, and I hope it will meet the interest and favour of the Government - that is why I have asked for particular attention - and of the majority of you, ladies and gentlemen. This is an important amendment on which we therefore draw your attention. On the subject of urban decoration, which is linked in a very visible way to waste management, especially of small size, we have also stimulated the rules to control and discourage the abandonment of cigarette butts, but also of paper tissues or receipts, which are certainly very small waste, but they are able to disfigure our cities. In short, a great deal of work has been done, in which the method of comparison, common sense and constructive criticism has been privileged. Indeed, the complex and contentful articulation of the text shows that the time spent in the Commission on the analysis and improvement of the texts has certainly not been wasted. It is true that it has been many months and that a continuous work has been done, but we believe that overall it has been a good job. It serves everyone, majorities and oppositions, this teaching, because poor are those institutions that renounce the enrichment of ideas that come from the dialectic, and often even lit, because the comparison always brings an improvement of the texts and norms. [[Applause from the AL-A Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the Government, after a long journey, finally comes to this House this measure, which contains important environmental measures, and not only. The environmental issue is a matter that, unfortunately, in our country takes on more and more the connotations of the emergency, from the land of fires to the continuous succession of disasters deriving from hydrogeological failure, from wild cementification to abuse and the way in which our ecosystem has been compromised too many times. These are all points for which a single measure is not sufficient, although full-bodied: constant and continuous attention is needed and consolidated measures and resources are needed over time. First of all, it takes a strong initiative to secure the country, but also to close the waste cycle, bring separate collection quotas to European standards and thus overcome the continuous emergency of landfills, which are no longer able to receive waste. Equally it is necessary to implement a serious policy that focuses on energy self-sufficiency and understand the role to be attributed to renewable energies in this framework and, consequently, promote them and support them effectively, because a country qualified from an environmental point of view is also more competitive and does not waste its resources, does not disfigure its territory and does not generate dangerous situations for public health, as unfortunately happened with the victims of asbestos, with ILVA and other equally tragic situations, that may not have had the same media attention, but unfortunately have known the same dramatic consequences. The quality of life of our country and the future of Italy depend on these challenges. Here today there is a very strong demand from an increasingly concerned public opinion for a policy that appears too weak compared to the challenges of environmental protection and public health. From here the ability of politics and institutions to return to the full confidence of citizens will be measured and measured more and more. I very much appreciated the passionate and precise report by the rapporteur, Mr Vaccari. As he himself said, there is no shortage of noteworthy measures in this measure. I am thinking of the introduction of the possibility of recovering by-products and processing residues for the agricultural and craft industries, a rule that opens up the energy self-sufficiency of companies. I am thinking of the rules that encourage domestic aerobic composting, with the recovery of organic waste produced and the relative reduction of the tariff. I am thinking of the standard that introduces the Made Green in Italy brand, green procurement, EMAS certifications and other quality certifications, new controls, so-called minimum contracts, to reward those who take responsibility for good practices and the costs of sustainability. Significant are also the rules introduced for the environmental qualification of the products of local production systems, industrial districts and supply chains that characterize the national production system, which we hope will succeed in their aim: to cross the environment and competitiveness, to build a virtuous mechanism through the promotion of the adoption of innovative technologies and disciplinary production, as well as the strengthening of the image, recall and impact of Italian productions, associating aspects of environmental quality, also in compliance with social sustainability requirements. But there is also the strengthening of the environmental qualification of agricultural products, through the valorisation of short supply chains and the definition of sustainable production parameters from the environmental point of view. I would also like to mention a number of amendments, which have been called for by the agricultural professional organisations and supported by other colleagues (particularly the PD), which have been adopted in the text and which are particularly important for the sector. They deal closely with issues relating to environmentally sustainable production, the development of agroenergy and bioenergy, the protection of soil and water, the management of irrigation waters, the elimination of those burdens which, in the future, would have been an obstacle for companies that want to be energy independent thanks to the use of a mix of renewable sources. But there is also a measure, very significant for the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, which amends the legislation on the land book, to allow entry also into the planetary system of building rights. In addition, I would like to stress this, a special agenda was adopted by our Group, which concerns the reorganization of forestry policies. It is a document on which we hope a commitment from the Government to enhance a resource particularly important for the Italian mountain; it is a heritage, the silvo-pastoral one, that needs more attention, training and professionalization, to be more valued also from the entrepreneurial and economic point of view. With my Group I have also tabled an agenda for the restoration of reduced VAT on pellets, which has been accepted by the Government and now seems certain that it will be incorporated into the Stability Act. This is a topic that had generated many controversy last year, especially in mountain areas, because on the one hand the Government had encouraged the transformation of heating systems with fiscal incentives and deductions and, immediately afterwards, had increased the VAT on pellets, after several companies and many families had made important investments in the transformation of their heating systems. On the other hand, Article 27 clarifies the problem of the disposal of land and excavation rocks, on which two years ago an amendment of mine had already been adopted in favour of small companies, which ended up giving up some orders because of too strict legislation which considered waste excavation materials. We also appreciated the rule that regulates the insertion and spread of wild boar in territories where the species is not native: a problem particularly felt by farmers and breeders, for the damage that too often wild boars generate in the countryside. We also appreciate the rule that addresses the issue of hydrocanon overloads for mountain water catchments. On this point we had made some proposals, but the solution that the rapporteur, Mr Vaccari, has identified with the representatives of the Government is an acceptable compromise. Finally, the rules for sustainable mobility are to be highlighted, as we have appreciated the transposition of our demands in assessing more carefully the difficulties associated with the rules provided for in the original text for the vacuum to render. The measure will now pass to the House, where I hope it will not be upset. Soon after, it is essential that the Government prepares clear, simple implementing measures that really stimulate virtuous behaviour in all these different areas, but all equally important from an environmental point of view. Finally, I would like to bring to the attention of the House an amendment which was not included in the Commission, which I have retabled here, Amendment 9,500, in order to facilitate the recovery of by-products from wood processing treated with natural glues, to be used for biomass and gas plants for energy production. An in-depth research by the University of Trento has shown that emissions from semi-finished wood treated exclusively with natural glues are equal to or even lower than those of virgin wood. In Germany, using European legislation, they are already allowed to recover in this respect. That is why I call on the Government and the House to give a favourable opinion and to accept a proposal, studied and meditated on, which is called upon by our craftsmen, who today are penalized by their German colleagues in the field of competition. This intervention is also encouraged and supported by local institutions, the University of Trento and Confartigianato. 18.16 p.m. (Follow PANIZE). In short, our Group believes that the environmental link introduces significant measures for a new approach, gives a certainly very wide regulatory framework, but more adherent to environmental requirements and puts order on a whole range of issues. It is obvious - as I said in the premises - that environmental issues are an issue that must increasingly take on a strategic character, and must be at the heart of the agenda of politics and public awareness. Finally, with this wish, I would like to express my appreciation for the serious and thorough work that has been done in the competent Commission, extending and qualifying the text cleared by the House. I would like to thank all the Commissioners for this, starting with Mr Laniece, who represents our Group in the Commission, and Mr Marinello. I would like to thank Mr Degani and, in particular, the rapporteur, Mr Stefano Vaccari, for the expertise and willingness with which he has carried out a delicate and complex task. I would also like to thank them for the very careful and always constructive collaborative climate that has taken place in the Commission. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u33	Senator Dalla Zuanna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u34	Mr President, the 78 articles of the environmental link that we are about to approve in this House, after a long and laborious work in the Environment Commission, have at least four objectives. Firstly, the draft law helps to push Italy towards the circular economy, an economic system where human activities are organised in such a way that waste can be systematically recycled or regenerated and therefore transformed into resources, instead of being dispersed into the environment, or remaining in landfill. The journey towards the circular economy - made necessary also by the desire to reduce the dispersion in atmosphere of greenhouse gases and made precisely by recent important Community acts - is good and right, if we really want to guard the earth to deliver it still livable to our children and our grandchildren. However, it cannot be denied that this prospect creates new constraints on human activities. The challenge is to turn these constraints into resources for development and the environmental link takes many steps in that direction. For example, in Article 12 the by-products of the processing of sugars by fermentation and the by-products of the processing or refining of vegetable oils are also included in the list of by-products that can be used in biomass and biogas plants. Moreover, Article 50 allows the use of calcium sulphates, residues of industrial processes, to restructure the abandoned quarries - obviously subject to the respect of precise conditions of chemical composition - thus allowing enormous quantities of materials to assume an important function of restoration of the territory. Moreover, Article 66 makes it much easier to exchange used goods, fully involving the municipalities in the organisation of this activity, while Article 32 provides for increasing premium measures for municipalities - individuals or associates - which exceed certain levels of separate collection and recycling of waste. Secondly, always with a view to a circular economy and a drastic reduction in the production and impact of waste, the link enhances the commitment of families, businesses and communities. For example, Articles 37 and 38 finally regulate, also for Italy, the so-called composting of communities, that is, that carried out collectively by several domestic and non-domestic users, in order to use as fertilizer of the compost produced. Similarly, in order to reduce pollutant emissions from vehicles, Article 4 allocates EUR 35 million as a share of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea to co-finance to 50% a national experimental programme of sustainable mobility (especially by bike or on foot) home-school and home-work, within the framework of projects planned at territorial level. Thirdly, the link simplifies so many rules that, instead of protecting the environment, they put the wheels in the way of companies, families and local authorities, increasing the temptation to abuse. As an example, Article 69, which drastically simplifies the management of waste for barbers, hairdressers, beauty institutions and agricultural enterprises, allows them to transport waste on their own to facilities authorised for disposal and provides for other simplification rules. The disposal of razors for a barber shop is today subject to the same constraints as for the disposal of the scalpels of a large hospital, with the obvious consequence of tons of special waste disposed of by barbers in an improper way, i.e. - I imagine - in the dumpster near the store. Finally, the link seeks to facilitate the construction of increasingly modern industrial waste disposal mechanisms, as well as to oil the mechanisms of control and integration between waste management companies. For example, in some points of the connection, corrective measures are inserted to the consortium system for the disposal of electrical and electronic waste (I think, for example, in Article 43), better specifying also the methods of disposal of photovoltaic panels (of which the end of life was still quite vague). These interventions are very important and follow other acts of various kinds produced by the Senate Environment Commission, in the awareness that proper industrial waste management is essential both for the advent of the circular economy and for the development of our country. Mr President, in conclusion, I believe that we have done a good job by integrating and developing the text from the House of Members. We worked with a very specific cultural address. In fact, although it is a very long and articulated bill, it has its own basic unity, which is to contribute to the path towards the circular economy for a cleaner, richer and more supportive Italy also towards the generations that will come. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u35	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, representative of the Government, shortly after the constitutional storm, we are here discussing a text which the House of Deputies fired on 13 November last year. Yes, in 2014: since then an infinite time has passed. I have been in the Commission for months of continuous referrals in which every other measure seemed more urgent and this bill only an obstacle to be bypassed. Today the measure finally arrives in the Senate Chamber. Is it because we are about to begin the examination of the bill of stability for 2016? I remember, in fact, that this text was the environmental connection to the 2014 stability law: it comes from Letta, but not beloved and much less enticed. I could end my speech here, laughing at us and at our inefficiency, but let us begin to analyse our inability to deal with these issues. Let's get to the point: what is the environmental connection? Is it the manifesto and the timely implementation of an environmental policy or just a set of corrections and adaptations to the European directives? Obligatory adjustment, of course, otherwise we're in breach. There are 97 EU infringements against Italy to date, 23 of which are related to the environment. Do you have any idea how much this costs us? Other than cutting transport to the disabled; other than becoming deaf on the caregiver; other than cutting on health care; other than denying educators to fragile children. Prevent infringements and you will not pay fines and we will all be a little richer: this must be your policy. Let's make a simple account: by dividing the 97 infringements by the 23 categories envisaged, the result is about 4 infringements per category. And I can cite at random or in alphabetical order the categories: economic affairs, foreign affairs, agriculture, procurement, etc. So, on average, there are practically four violations of each of these rumors. Then we discover that the issues that have twice the average of the infringements are only two, but the environment has a number of infringements five times the average, because the number 23 exceeds for more than five times the number 4. This is indicative of the sensitivity that the Government has on environmental issues, which is five times lower than that related to other topics. To recover from the confusion, let's move on to the big numbers. In Parliament there are 2.276 questions and questions addressed to the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea: Senator Amidei knows something about this. I repeat: there are 2,276 of them. I would like to point out that on 26 February 2014, more than a year ago - it is not February this year, but last year - I presented at my first signing an interview with abbreviated procedure, addressed to the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, on the delicate problem of water pollution and, in particular, the Olona river. Pursuant to Rule 156- bis, on page 259 of the Senate Rules, I should have had an answer within fifteen days. It's been over a year and a half and I haven't received any answers. Not to decree good school: here perhaps it is better to invent the good Ministry! Why is the government deaf to the environmental demands and proposals that come to Parliament? We simply implement European provisions, which on the one hand is correct, but we should also consider the specific problems of our territory and find solutions to them, starting from the climate change that is affecting our country and the hydrogeological risk that follows. We are now in a country that is afraid of the rain, which is like saying that it is afraid of its own shadow, because the rain will always be there. No government has yet managed to invest in prevention. There are landslides, floods, earthquakes, landslides, overflows, floods and "the more you have, the more you put them." Unfortunately, death is often associated with these events. The disasters caused by bad weather in the Sannio area are before everyone's eyes these days and I express my solidarity with the people affected. I would not, however, wish that once again, after the emergency, everything fell into oblivion. It is not enough to stick to the European provisions: the individual government and give impetus to a clear political direction. In the environmental field we have seen many irregularities, even in other countries, and the Volkswagen case is only the tip of an iceberg. In order to get out of Europe, however, Italy should have its own environmental policy, clear and coherent: the measures taken by this Government in recent months, on the other hand, appear schizophrenic. To the interventions in order to favor the green economy and to decrease the volume of the waste are opposed others, like for example article 35 of the decree unblocks Italy, that transforms the incinerators in strategic settlements of preeminent national interest, reducing the times for the procedures of assessment of environmental impact and the integrated authorization environmental. If I have to constantly decrease the volumes - this is what is said in the measure - and encourage separate collection, why is the green light given to the construction of 12 new incinerators? The sites of almost forty years old, in possession of the qualification "R1," like the one that is near my home, in Busto Arsizio, in my already impestate Lombardy, are rehabilitated to incinerate waste from all parts of Italy. They are just a stone's throw from Seveso and dioxin accumulates. The burned waste is a burned resource. Is it possible that it's so hard to understand? Don't keep the horizon at your feet: let's look up at the new technologies of final disposal and recycling. That is not the environmental policy we have in mind. Turning back to the text we are examining, there is particular concern in Article 2 concerning operations carried out at sea in the search for hydrocarbons, which may have serious repercussions for our Mediterranean Sea. While Sweden is aiming to achieve total self-sustainability with the green economy in twenty years' time, we in Italy have set a target for the use of renewable sources of energy at 17%. And in the meantime, we make our Mediterranean a colapast. Italy lacks a deep-rooted environmental culture. We do not hesitate to put our Mediterranean at risk with very dangerous interventions: not all damage is reversible; I repeat, not all damage is reversible. Article 1 of the environmental link provides for the ship's master to show the insurance for the transport of polluting materials, but this becomes a mild measure if at the same time heavy penalties are not foreseen for the owner of the cargo that is not in possession of it. These measures appear to be a mockery. Many other measures are postponed to implementing decrees, and knowing the times of this Government, they will probably never have any light; they could only remain good intentions. We welcome Article 4 of the text proposed by the Commission to provide for measures to promote sustainable, sweet mobility. We modify, however, the term "to fight overweight and obesity", which appears strongly reductive and which could then induce useless tweets to Gasparri. It is discriminatory to write overweight and obesity, not to those who are not overweight, but to all other diseases. Much better to replace it with the expression "contrast the problems related to sedentary life," so we are all understood, because from it derive not only obesity, but also numerous diseases such as diabetes, phlebitis, blood circulation problems and many others. Either we list them all or insert a generic statement. One point on which we have spoken, which I consider to be very important, is the disposal of asbestos. With one amendment we have proposed that a higher percentage of tax credit be granted to those who use the method of inertisation, much safer than others, which would solve the problem of landfills. We need to change course. This system does not stand physically: you are like a zero electric field; there are so many electrons, but they each go in a different direction. The electrons must all move in the same direction to generate current, instead you lack an overall vision, a coordination; always give a shot to the circle and a shot to the barrel. In order to safeguard the environment and our health, investment must also be made without considering a balanced budget or economic return. You should understand that environmental spending results in fewer problems for the health of citizens. If we breathe clean air, we eat healthy food and drink clean water we will have less sick and therefore less public spending on health care. You don't have to fall into the same trap that in economics is called "hyperbolic discount," that is, acceptance of something immediately instead of a great return later. To date we have paid for wrong choices, the hyperbolic discount of immediate and urgent short-term choices. From this vortex, without an anti-capitalist and anti-neoliberal revolution, we will never get out of it. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators, Mr Campanella and Mr Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u37	She is registered to speak Senator Valdinosis. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure deals with many aspects, as has been pointed out: some are systematic while others - I am thinking of the definition of the Natural Capital Committee - tend to give systematic environmental promotion policies. In other cases, these measures reinforce environmental protection, e.g. the innovation of environmental assessment also extends to health aspects, as well as measures to combat building abuse, in particular with regard to the most sensitive areas from the point of view of hydrogeological balance. The measures contained are many and important, and many colleagues have already explained them: from river contracts to green procurement and sustainable mobility, to support for which EUR 35 million has been allocated. I would like to touch on two issues in my speech. The first is the reuse of materials, which is dealt with in a broad way. Our country can boast the first place in Europe in the industry of the reuse of materials and with this measure we support and encourage a sector that is at the same time vital for the environment, but also for the economy. Reduce, reuse, recycle matter, recover energy: these are the "4R" that, applied in this order, regulate the correct management of waste, principles that have been law for many years in Italy and Europe. Unfortunately, in our country, although progress has been made in recent years, only 30% of waste is collected and started to recycle, breaking the first three "Rs" and moving away from the objectives set at Community level. Unfortunately, landfills in Italy are still the main way to dispose of waste, a way that feeds illegal business and prevents the development of a virtuous cycle based on recycling and prevention, as well as being a dangerous source of pollution of entire territories and seriously damaging people's health. In recent years, fortunately, even in our country, more attention and sensitivity to this problem has been affirmed and the willingness to engage personally on ecological issues has increased among citizens. Therefore, a Italy based on a circular economy is no longer an impossible dream: the experiences of sustainable waste management by territories and businesses shows that our country is also on the right track and that it can continue also supported by this measure. It is, therefore, a new green economy which in the field of product recycling sees 150,000 employed and which represents a great deal of work for the years to come. According to the ISPRA Waste Report, 39 percent of municipal waste was buried in 2012: 11.7 million tonnes, or 196 kilograms per inhabitant in one year. It is a management that risks to cost our country very much if we do not intervene quickly. As mentioned in the previous action, the European Commission has launched several infringement procedures on landfills. What can be done, then, to reverse the course and finally reduce the landfill? A new system of incentives and disincentives is needed to ensure that prevention and recycling are cheaper, even economically, than energy recovery and landfill disposal. To penalise landfill disposal, to eliminate incentives for energy recovery from waste, and to promote recycling. In this direction, this measure goes where it provides to increase separate collection and reduce the amount of non-recycled waste, that the regions can provide incentives for municipalities to meet recycling targets and/or take measures to prevent the production of waste. At the same time, there is a need to invest in raising awareness of good daily practices and the education of young people. So we need acceleration. From this point of view, I would like to draw attention to the need for Parliament to approve the measure - which is currently being considered by the House, but which will soon have to come here too - in order to combat food waste. The waste, in fact, as well as an unsustainable cost to the environment, is also a moral and economic contradiction that we cannot accept. There is, in fact, a very close connection between the environment and the waste of food. It is clear that, if we were able to reduce food waste, we could also reduce CO2 emissions, as we produce 13 million tonnes of CO2 to produce food that we do not consume. Mr President, I would ask you to give my speech so that it remains in the proceedings, but before I conclude, I would like to draw attention to the importance of this measure, where it provides for the incentive to sustainable mobility, which has already been mentioned. In particular, I would like to recall the project that will be financed in my Region, Emilia-Romagna, for the cycle track in the former railway track Bologna-Verona, as a very important example of the valorization of a type of new tourism, which can also produce new work, new companies. In fact, it has been estimated by ENIT an economic return with national potential of 3,2 billion euros of turnover: an experiment started, which will have to be extended soon throughout the territory, because it can produce good employment and good economy. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u39	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u40	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called environmental link finally arrives in this House after a long journey to the Commission. In its original intentions it had to be an organic measure covering as much as possible the areas and resolving the criticalities of everything that directly or indirectly affects the environmental sector. The long journey, which lasted almost a year, in the Commission had a swinging trend, with interruptions and successive resumptions, with corrections, new insertions and excerpts which clearly conditioned the final outcome of the text. In fact, the text has grown a lot through the changes made, but it has partly lost its organicity. There have been speeches to add exemplifying issues: from issues relating to protected marine areas to the promotion of sustainable mobility to issues relating to the containment of the spread of wild boar, which are unfortunately the subject of inauspicious news, even recently. The rapporteur has already mentioned the many additional measures to extend the text and the individual provisions, aimed at giving in some cases greater harmony and completeness to the subjects treated, as happened with regard to the provisions on products derived from post-consumer materials, where our amending proposals aimed at remodulating the text were also accepted, so that it would be more in line with the scope of application. Unfortunately, I must also say that during the examination it was considered to amend some parts in the sense of excluding them from this measure, referring to a possible and future green act that has been announced several times, but has not yet materialized, and that it is now absolutely essential above all to intervene on those areas that have been waiting for years to update the reference legislation. It is the case of the renewable sector, which in various respects is currently waiting for some corrections, in order to align it with European provisions and also to avoid penalties on the market against foreign competitors. One example is the intervention of by-products that can be used in biomass and biogas plants, as provided for in Article 12 and defined in order to reduce the environmental impact of the Italian economy in terms of CO2 production. It was considered to intervene on the text of the original Article 9 in order to define the principle of valorization of the circular economy and the inclusion, among the by-products, of those deriving from the processing or refining of vegetable oils. However, we have not had the courage to do more, intervening on all the other aspects involved in this matter and which affect, in various respects, the sector of energy production, in particular from biomass and afforestation. For example, when mentioning the by-products to be used in these plants, they have not been evaluated and considered those derived from the processing of animal fats and the production of biofuels, which are perfectly identifiable through specific standards and techniques. Nor was it intended to take action to update the list of fuels used as by-products, as set out in Annex X, Part V, of Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006. An update expected from the operators of the field, because in line with the technological evolution of the section. I note that on this front the Government has shown attention in welcoming my agenda. But the question could be directly included in the text. And you have not, unfortunately, had the courage (or will?) to intervene in order to give more organicity to the whole sector. This is just one example. It is clear that in other respects the removal of the issues was necessary, in order to ensure an organic discussion of the issue in question, as was the case with the articles related to the legislation on supply chain consortia. In fact, the provisions introduced in the Chamber did not seem to take into account the actual reality of the consortium's management, nor the legal configuration of the consortia themselves. And for this reason too, remaining of the opinion that the matter required a remodulation, it was rightly considered to remove it from the text in order to take it back in a measure specifically dedicated to the issue, allowing it to be further deepened. This is an expectation to which we look very carefully. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that in the Environment Commission we have a deal assigned to the role of consortia in the management of the dynamics associated with the recovery and recycling of waste, also in the light of Community standards and objectives, which has already seen a first hearing of the Antitrust, which will certainly be the place to encourage a deepening and a comparison on this matter. I just want to share further reflection on this issue. We know how crucial the role of consortia in waste management is and how complex the management of the sector is by virtue of the specificities of the individual areas, which in many cases leads to overlaps of competences not simple to manage, precisely because of the type of goods and products involved, as well as their so-called life cycle, which can change also significantly the configuration of the good, from pre to post-use, and therefore in the transition from good to rejection. A complex matter, therefore, also because it involves not only managers, producers and those involved in recovery and recycling, but, ultimately, it insists significantly, in terms of economic impact, on end users, that is, citizens. On these issues, concerning the legislation on consortia, however, some interventions that were necessary also to return to the Department of the environment the ownership on the monitoring of consortium management, but it is incomprehensible, given the will to give back organicity to all the legislation through a dedicated measure, a provision such as that provided for in paragraph 3 of Article 45, which risks greatly amplifying a dispute already in place for some time, precisely because it amplifies the scope of overlapping of competences of the subjects involved in the management of plastic waste. However, this is not compatible with the provisions of Article 28. I hope that in the context of our examination we will be able to return to this issue and deepen it further, in order to avoid the practical problems that could arise from disharmonious rules. Having said that, I can only thank all my colleagues in the Environment Commission and, first and foremost, Mr Marinello and the rapporteur, Mr Vaccari, with whom there has always been a constructive dialogue and confrontation. In the same way, I must thank for the commitment and the willingness to listen to the Government that was well represented by the Undersecretary Degani, whose assiduousness in the participation in the sessions and in the open discussion with all the members of the Commission was a valuable element to reach today, finally, this due and expected conclusion. All this testifies to the importance that the Government wants to give to the protection of our environmental heritage, beyond the merit of the issues addressed, which - I am sure - will have the opportunity to be further deepened in the appropriate fora, also in view of the interventions of direction and control that, from the inside and as majority referents, we will continue to urge. That is to ensure that the commitments that the Government has made in the Commission are implemented, and that our agendas are also accepted. We are and will always be there because the protection of the environment and our territory is an indisputable priority, and it is for this Government. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u42	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u43	Mr President, after a very long labor, which began in November 2014, this bill has finally arrived in the Chamber. It took several months, and so we can certainly say that it was not among the priorities of the majority and the government. It's a fact, not an opinion. For us in the 5 Star Movement, the environment is one of the priorities of the country. So we worked a lot, both in the House and in the Senate, and we offered a substantial and improving contribution, obtaining the transposition of so many proposals in this text. The government, as usual, boasts and fills its mouth with so many beautiful words, but in the end, as always, only words that never follow. I think that this Government has also made a big mistake, abusing its power, when it removed from the text all articles concerning the discipline of consortia, which instead had to be dealt with immediately and not postponed further. Despite this, I do not deny the presence of articles that we, as the 5 Star Movement, consider positively, and we have no problem in recognizing it, as we recognize the commitment of some colleagues who have been able to confront each other constructively in the Commission. The problem, however, is that you never really want to go to the bottom of the issues, looking for the right solutions, probably because you must always be careful not to affect some interest that is dictated by these Aules, so it is as if there were stakes, beyond which you can not go. At this point, let us take a few examples of practical cases where, thanks to the M5S, some progress has been made in solving real problems experienced every day by citizens. In Article 4, for example, we find resources for sustainable mobility, with which it will be possible to finance projects and initiatives including car pooling and biking sharing. Mobility is an extremely important issue, to which we must give immediate answers: in fact, we all know that in large cities and in small towns travel often turns into real road blocks, and the best example is the exit of pupils from schools. In order to remedy this problem and to reduce air and noise pollution levels, an amendment of the 5 Star Movement was approved, which provides for the adoption by the Ministry of the Environment of guidelines for the establishment of mobility managers in schools, in compliance with school autonomy. We imagine a school mobility manager who, properly trained through the use of existing and operational projects throughout Europe, under the direction and coordination of the Ministry, can organise mobility and regulate flows to and from institutions, in the most environmentally friendly way possible, better of course if with zero impact. This proposal, accepted by a majority, has therefore become part of the text, but, so that it can work well and without any dispersal of resources, we will have to approve - and I hope that you can understand the importance of it - another amendment of ours, which does not, among other things, entail any burden of expenditure on the State and with which we ask that at the Ministry of the Environment we start a directing booth to monitor and manage the funds dedicated precisely to sustainable mobility, to ensure that they are not used unevenly by the municipalities, in the absence of a collective vision project. In the Commission's examination, we also supported all forms of incentives for aerobic composting, as well as the increase in measures to increase separate collection and reduce the amount of waste not recycled, but immediately afterwards we also had to reiterate our opposition to biomass and incinerators, as well as to the mixing of waste, because, by chance, that is what we are talking about in Article 12. I certainly agree with Mr Galletti who, on 15 October, in this House, said: In our country, 40% of waste is still landfilled and this is unacceptable for a civilised country, both from the environmental point of view and from the health of its citizens. It is precisely for this reason, Mr President, that I wonder why, by taking drastic measures against landfills, we should not take immediate measures to really move towards a circular economy by encouraging recycling plants. Instead, we prefer to start twelve new incinerators in our country, with the excuse of having verified the need for plant engineering, when we all know that for every incinerator there is always need of a landfill of special waste, therefore even worse than the landfill of municipal waste. We believe, for example, that the government should ensure that the regions implement the provisions of the regional waste plans and verify that they carry out the necessary reclamations, in accordance with European standards. Thus, perhaps, we could avoid paying millions of euros of fines to Europe and invest this money for the environmental redevelopment of our country or to respond promptly to the needs of territories that are brought to their knees for bad weather, as happened a few days ago in Benevento. Another mistake was to delete the former Article 21, where packaging management was concerned, which needs serious re-examination, so that packaging waste can be reduced to the bone, but which the Government continues to postpone and does not want to deal with. Here at the Senate, however, the 5 Star Movement presented an excellent bill as a solution, hoping that it can be discussed as soon as possible in the Chamber. President, thanks to the 5 Star Movement, the vacuum is finally introduced to make: of course, it would have been preferable to introduce a system of return of specific types of packaging intended for the wider use of food; it should have dared more, but we must be content for now with the introduction of the vacuum to make experimental, on a voluntary basis and for a period not exceeding twelve months. As we said at the beginning, however, as soon as you go in the right direction you immediately put a brake. These were just a few examples of excellent proposals that were passed thanks to our drive, and there would also be others, which, however, for reasons of time, we cannot list. Let us now look at the negative points of this measure. The opinion on Article 53 is absolutely negative, on which we have tabled a deleterious amendment, because the intention is to remove from the waste controls and disposal tests for dangerous substances the litoid mining materials, that is, of a rocky nature, without distinction on the basis of their composition. Public water issue: since 2008 tariffs have risen by 74 percent, in ten years they have doubled and are expected to grow again. The 5 Star Movement has always been fighting for public water and we have also fought in the Commission for at least a minimum quantity to be guaranteed even in case of morosity. The text that came out of the Chamber provided only for a general insurance for access to water on facilitated conditions, which obviously was not compatible with the right of universal access. Here in the Senate we have slightly improved the text, adding Article 61, which at least provides guarantees for the minimum vital quantity, but which is ambiguous with respect to the principle laid down for cost coverage. Article 31 had initially led me to a positive judgment, because we are talking about compensation for the damage and environmental restoration of sites of national interest. In practice, it is envisaged that the parties to whom the Ministry of the Environment has taken the relevant judicial action may make a proposal for the security or settlement of the damage by means of an economic assessment. But we forgot one fundamental thing: the reclamation. We must stop offering escape routes to polluters; we cannot try to reduce the obligations of those responsible for environmental pollution. Those who pollute must pay, both through the reclamation of the territory, and with prison sentences, as provided for by the law on environmental crimes that, thanks to the 5 Star Movement, has been approved in this legislature. We want a government that really contrasts anyone who does environmental damage and we want the Bonifications not only to remain words in the legal texts, but to be realized. Allow me to conclude my speech on the environmental link by quoting the Pope who, in his Encyclical on the Environment, "Laudato si'" of 25 May last, summed up in two lines how much the citizens and the Church do not trust the governments that have been there until today. The Pope writes: The company, through non-governmental bodies and intermediate associations, must oblige governments to develop more stringent regulations, procedures and controls. If citizens do not control political power - national, regional and municipal - it is not possible to combat environmental damage. I would ask you to accept our constructive amendments and proposals, which also aim to increase participation, transparency and control. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u45	Mr President, Parliament, with the provisions contained in Law No 1676, is called upon to carry out a full reordering of environmental, ecological, economic, productive and landscape matters. These are broad, broad areas and we would say, with emphasis, encyclopedics: from public works to monitoring and environmental audits systems, from local production systems to waste, composting, renewable sources, land and sea use, olive oil mills, landfills, photovoltaic panels. There is a vast scope, an immense spectrum of situations that have been determined over the years, and a great deal of effort to contain in clear and decisive rules the provisions for which action is deemed to be taken. All this would have deserved a more general approach, of large container of laws and norms, of frames capable of containing all the experience that environmental culture has matured through processes of genetic mutation of the national character, that in recent decades has pervaded the Italian society, marking its ductility in broad layers of the population and - alas - distinguishing in many niches voilate to delinquere the pervicacious criminal will to lucare and to enrich himself on the skin of local communities, when not of the entire national community. Therefore, in the opinion of the Conservatives and Reformists, the legislative approach is wrong, from the hasty appearances, from the fragmentary contents, although appropriately highlighted in the sectors most exposed to the neglect of the time and the spirit of the times. However, the measures we want to introduce are welcome: repairers of the defects produced by past and current norms, sound like many mea culpa to which it is necessary to give evidence in order not to repeat the mistakes of the past. Picking up the pernicious effects produced so far would be a perilous journey along the gallery of horrors that so many deaths have caused, so many victims have reaped, so much economy has depressed, so much quality of life has conditioned. There is a great deal of responsibility for the two branches of Parliament in dealing with the great book of the Italian environment, in its variables that characterise eco-sustainability and eco-compatibility. Let's take advantage of the experiential port that scholars, experts, administrators, entrepreneurs, executive classes, scientific and university institutions, ordinary citizens have expressed. We give dignity to the complex, suffering actions of protest, of protest, of proposal that have arisen from the low plans of the country, from the street and from the places of work, from the schools, from the parishes, from the intellectual circles and from the community of consumers, of the users, of the conscious users. The body of stakeholders is enormous. Let's make sure they're all legitimate interests and the Italian citizens legitimated to do that. Great is the expectation, demanding the task of the legislator, but it can result in a better Italy, a sanitized nation, finally able to reject the germs of evil and crime, tenacious in protecting the most exposed, weaker, without representation. Today, environmental awareness is able to produce a virtuous economy: opportunities are created from waste and waste becomes resources. It will benefit the country system in its most intimate, humble, related to people who claim dignity, work, employment, leisure time able to produce cultural elevation and increase the rate of civilization. We add beauty to Italy, thus preserving its beauty. We all have a duty to confirm that our country is the garden of Europe and will not be a stupid consolation but economic merit, development of tourism economy and cultural goods, widespread incomes, moral duty, ethical practice for the benefit of all. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u47	Mr President, Mrs Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, with this speech I complete the contributions of my colleagues Mr De Siano and Mr Scilipoti Isgrò in the general debate. I will focus on a few particular points, starting with the integrated water service, first of all remembering that the Government has already intervened on the subject several times in the very recent past and does so further in this measure, a sign - in my opinion - of an overall uncertainty in the approach to regulation of this decisive local public service. The central point is the welcome establishment of the Guarantee Fund for investments in water infrastructure, in Article 58, through an increase in the rate which will feed the fund itself. I would like to make a note: despite repeated requests, I did not have any answers in relation to the financial needs of the fund. This is an easy solution, as it were: there is a financial need, there is an increase in the cost of the service, further charging citizens and businesses. In my opinion, it would have been necessary to seek suitable solutions to ensure access to credit by the operators of the integrated water service, based on guarantees expressed directly by the State, rather than to insist on putting their hands still in the pockets of the Italians. I would like to make a further comment on that point. Also in this case the opportunity to reward the virtuous has been missed, in particular the areas that have adapted in time to the legal indications. Forza Italia has tabled amendments aimed at favouring the authorities in a virtuous field, but it has preferred not to follow them. I conclude with one question: when does a well-structured water service respond to a precise organization along the whole peninsula? The other point I want to focus on is the hydrocanon overloads. With regard in particular to Article 62, which deals with this subject, I propose a very simple observation: as is well known, the overload represents compensation for the populations of the areas affected by the presence of drifting works along the watercourses for hydroelectric use; the novelty introduced consists in the equalization of the annual burden for the totality of the plants with power exceeding 220 kilowatts, unlike the current situation, in which the annual burden to be paid to the consortia of the river basin is incomprehensiblely differentiated on the basis of the nominal power. The increase is of course opposed by hydroelectric power producers, but this legitimate opposition can be refuted by the double consideration that the greater revenues feed public actors working for the economic and social development of the territories concerned and that the extent of the increase is frankly ridiculous compared to the values of production at stake in the economic accounts of the producers. We are talking, in fact, about the implications of the order of the thousandths. Rather, I would stress the lack of precise targets in the use of higher revenue. In my view, the opportunity has been missed to finalise the increased revenue for the development of activities in favour of the maintenance of the minor water network, as Parliament has repeatedly called for in connection with numerous commemorations on ground protection. Moreover, this maintenance would have been favourable to the stability of the watercourses and, therefore, of interest to the producers themselves. On this subject, too, Forza Italia has tabled specific amendments, but they have been rejected. In this regard, however, I would like to refer to Article 70, which states that the Government is entitled to introduce systems for the remuneration of ecosystem and environmental services (the so-called PSEA system). First of all, I would like to point out that this is an important and important matter for the size of the actions and the figures at stake, since they are many hundreds of millions of euros. I would have thought that the presentation of a specific draft law in this area would be more appropriate to the need for further study. In fact, here the Government is being delegated, with a narrow article of some paragraph, to revise the concessions of use of state property and to intervene in order to widen the audience of those subject to payments. At the same time, the scope of the beneficiaries is not properly defined - this is a very serious lack. In this regard, in fact, if it is acceptable to allocate the benefits to Municipalities, associative forms of the same and to systems of collective management of the goods to the protected areas, instead I seem to miss the Regions completely, already addressed today of a large part of these payments. In the same way, there are no consortia of mountain basins, currently receiving a large portion of the so-called PESAs (now called, under existing legislation, supercanons). I would also point out that, among the beneficiaries of the PSEA system, an unknown entity, called the Integrated Mountain Basin Foundation, has been included. In the doubt, I went to read the single text of the local authorities, noting that this type of subject does not exist. At this point I wonder: does the majority want to introduce a new subject - we do not know whether public or private (by private I mean also some Chinese box daughter of associations of mountain municipalities) - with the aim of cannibalizing the resources allocated to the populations today, through the BIM system? If that is the case, it is better for municipalities and peoples to know this right now and to protect their own constitutionally unbearable right with force. Another point concerns Article 20. An interesting provision concerning the environmental qualification of local production systems is inapplicable in practice. This is obvious because the indication, for the other applicant, of "without new or higher burdens for public finance" is reserved for some fundamental implementation requirements (in this case the preparation of a specific plan), it is indeed likely to procrastinate sine the application of qualification. It is a bit of a recurring example of how this measure is structured. With regard to Article 4, which lays down provisions to promote sustainable mobility, the objective of increasing alternative forms of mobility, including through the appropriate economic support of large-area projects, is generally welcomed. I only hope that the arrangements for access to the funds, which the measure promises, can be transparent and rapid. And the proposal of mobility manager for schools, as facilitator and coordinator of good practices in the field of sustainable mobility, is also acceptable, although - in my opinion - this figure, rather than in the school staff, must be traced to the responsible actors and managers of local public transport. In Article 4, the key provision is undoubtedly the third paragraph, which is perhaps the only truly implementing example within the whole measure. I am referring to the financing of as much as EUR 5 million to the Emilia-Romagna Region for the redevelopment of an old abandoned railway track for cyclopedonal use - says the text of the measure under consideration - which, it seems, is already in the availability of the agencies. Frankly, it seems to me to be a provision - if so politely, we want to call it - placed outside an appropriate context. By avoiding to expire in the use of words that I do not feel to say, I just observe that such funding would have been useful for many other routes, in other regions, equipped with adequate planning and without funding, and would have been better placed within an ad hoc measure, transparent in the modalities of advertising and allocation. Finally, I would like to focus for a moment on Article 51 of the draft law under consideration, which concerns the authorities of the basin and the river districts. With regard to this article, which deals precisely with district authorities, it should be pointed out that such an important matter would have required a specific measure, weighted and more articulated. I have two points to make in this regard and I shall begin to conclude. The first concerns the inclusion of useful guidelines for the management of solid transport and sediments in river basins: this is a shared and necessary objective, but the way in which it is incorporated into the measure makes it - in my opinion - poorly feasible or even useless. In fact, certain times are not indicated for the authority to adapt its programming and not all the necessary elements for proper intervention are provided. It would have been better to proceed with general guidelines, to follow precise, stringent and applicable technical standards, contained perhaps in specific guidelines. Another non-secondary aspect - and I have really concluded - concerns the ability of the authorities to involve in the consultative session the representatives of the agricultural categories and the reclamation consortia, with the right objective to involve the stakeholders in the management of the waters. However, if we listen to all the stakeholders, then it is necessary to consider that most of the reservoirs of invade are characterized by multiple use and, therefore, it is necessary to hear also the hydroelectric producers and the tour operators. In this way we will obtain the desirable result to address in a comprehensive way the use of full rolling, the use of irrigation, the use for energy and tourist use, allowing the necessary comparison and the identification of ways of management of the water resource, actually meeting all the needs. I reserve the right, in the explanation of vote, to speak on other central points in order to make this provision known. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u49	Mr President, I believe that this text is the result of long and important work, which has seen the contribution of so many and I am not just referring to the political groups. In fact, I believe that this work has been built through a strong dialogue with all stakeholders, with local authorities, with professionals and with associations. And it is a text which is the result of the contribution of all the political groups: the debate took place with great attention, trying to grasp the contribution of all. I am a little sorry that there has not been the same climate in this House and the same responsibility on the part of everyone for a measure that has really collected, thanks to the work of the rapporteur Stefano Vaccari, the contribution of all political forces, beyond the deployment. Out of metaphor, I am very sorry that this measure, which is also the result of contributions from the League, is not recognized by Senator Crosio, who said that he shares nothing of what is written in this provision; but much of what is written in it has also been elaborated together with the member of the League in the Commission. I regret to point this out, but I think it is also right to call everyone back to their responsibilities. I think that, after the transition to the House, the work of these months has improved the proposal, thanks to the many amendments voted unanimously, after a serious debate, without changing, or rather valorizing, the aims of a connected person who undoubtedly intervenes on a decisive topic, such as the environmental one, innovating and introducing rules that encourage and codify positive individual, social and economic behaviors, respectful of the environment: behaviors aimed at energy saving, reuse, the use of renewable energies, the reduction of consumption. In this measure there is so much and on many vital sectors for our country and for its future, to activate policies and practices that safeguard our territory from the hydrogeological failure, that they produce a step forward throughout the national territory on the waste cycle, encouraging and imposing reuse and recycling. Again. There are many rules for the protection of water, air and the whole ecosystem. I want to say clearly, because there has been some misunderstanding in the debate: it is not in this text that the great investments and organizational choices that intervene on the hydrogeological failure, but are made. It is a fact that last year's stability law and this year's stability law have allocated substantial and significant funding to these interventions and that the mission unit that is in charge of ensuring quality and timeliness of interventions on hydrogeological failure is on the field and is recovering and reusing money allocated in the past and not spent. They are not in this text either, but they are made, other structural interventions on energy, on waste disposal facilities. They are not in this text, but they are made, interventions like the ecobonus that will be reconfirmed in the next law of stability and that had been an important incentive to the energy efficiency of our country. This, therefore, is neither a urban law nor the energy law. But all this does not make this link a measure that is neither secondary nor less important. The strength of these interventions lies also in the choice of action to promote and encourage initiatives by local authorities aimed at the purchase of goods with low environmental impact and energy saving. But this is also a measure that looks to citizens, to their behaviour; a measure that is not a list of prohibitions, but an intervention that wants to encourage and promote positive actions; sustainable and environmentally friendly behaviour, not only on the part of companies; individual behaviours that choose sustainable mobility, safeguard the beauty and cleanliness of our cities, find in separate collection an opportunity and not an annoying obligation. I think it's a good and useful measure: I tell the Undersecretary. There are many interventions, perhaps small, but so concrete, that will enter positively in the homes of Italians and in the lives of our cities guaranteeing new rights starting from that of water. I understand some people's disorientation in the face of such a measure, but perhaps its value is right here. It is a link that innovates, that thinks for the first time in an extended way of green economy, of good practices, of initiatives to grow culture and environmental awareness in this country. Perhaps it is the first time that, beyond the slogans, concretely, in addition to thinking about improving the quality of life of today, we also think about the life of future generations. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u50	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u51	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u52	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank all my fellow senators who have spoken, for the criticisms they have made and for their appreciation for the work which, together with President Marinello and all the members of the Commission, we have done in the spirit and in the perspective that Mr Mirabelli was now calling for. However, let me make one remark. I have heard from some of my fellow Members references to well-off issues and issues that cannot be traced in this measure: issues that concern energy, references to other measures, to indicate that this bill is not good; there has been a lack of organicity and, at the same time, there are those who have accused us of having made an omnibus measure. I would like us all to be aware of the good that, on the other hand, is in this provision, and there is a lot of it. There are many ambitious objectives, but they are based on resources and acts. Certainly, without making the process to the intentions of the Government, to those who will be the tasks that the Ministry will be entrusted with decrees. There are no references to marchettes, since I have heard this bad term used; instead, there are references to concrete choices that concern all the national territory, to the good practices that the municipalities, in an early way also with respect to the European and national choices, are putting in place, with the third sector and with the associationism, with the collaboration of citizens and with the active participation of the same in order to achieve European objectives. There are concrete, real simplifications that businesses, municipalities and citizens have always asked for and that we try to make available to them. There are support, as my colleague Dalla Zuanna recalled, for industrial sectors that have been and are now more virtuous in the economic sphere of our country, those that in recent years in the green economy have continued to invest, hire and do research and innovation, while other sectors were standing at the stake. To these sectors, even more virtuous, we have given and we want to give a side, so that even those remaining on the pole - even the most firm compared to all these aspects - can find tools to innovate themselves. There are clear measures, not bland ones, that can set in motion an important innovation in various sectors of our country (which I do not recall, because the report has tried to identify priorities). As my colleague Mr Sollo recalled, this measure is part of a more comprehensive strategy than the Government, together with Parliament, on environmental issues, in a season of important reforms that he wanted to start, indicated as a priority: the law on eco-reactions; the law on systems of control and monitoring of environmental matrixes, with the ISPRA Agencies and with the system of ARPAs; the reform of parks and the environmental connection. It is, therefore, an overall strategy, which concerns the sustainable development policies of this country, with the objective, of course, of trying to give the idea of a strategic plan that this Government, together with Parliament, wanted to put in place. So there is an overall view and I am sorry that some of my colleagues wanted to point out the opposite in an instrumental way. There is an overall view that is supported by facts, resources, concrete measures, even from this effort. Parliament has taken too long to do so, but in the end it has reached a result that many have recognised as important and, in some ways, unique in its kind, as Mr Piccoli recalled, citing the remuneration of ecosystem services, calling it important and imposing. It is a sign of a path to be taken for the future as well. Of this good we must try together, even in the work that follows, to enhance as much as possible, also trying to see if there are some issues that in this House can find a further elaboration from the evaluation that we will make on the amendments that have been tabled. I also recognise, as we did in the Commission and as my colleague Mr Di Biagio pointed out, that the issue of supply-chain consortia on the subject of waste needs in a strict way an organic and decisive response from the Government, which the Government itself has undertaken to find, committing itself to removing from this provision the articles that dealt with it. This measure can be a further contribution to this new strategy on the green economy that, through the connected environment, this country wants to give itself. It is indeed an important road, the one we are going to open with this measure, which places us fully within a Europe that, in many ways, has anticipated a whole series of measures, of roads that we have transposed in this measure and that we have obviously made our own: but putting our own in order to lower those directives, those indications and those ambitious objectives in our country. A country that, also through this measure, certainly wants to be within the European Union by making its contribution: for example, on the new directive on the circular economy on which this Senate has also been able to point out a number of priorities to the European Union itself. For this reason, the work we have done is certainly not perfect, but it is an impressive and important work, not only for this House but for the text that we deliver to the House, with the wish and hope that it will be approved as it is, quickly. Through this measure, too, we have tried to make a contribution to the sustainable development policy that our country can lead through the European Union. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u53	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with the draft law introducing environmental provisions to promote concrete measures to promote the green economy. A real green agenda for Italy. A useful measure for Italy that has the merit of marking a necessary step forward in many environmental sectors. In a few weeks, as is known, all the States of the Planet will meet at the Cop21 in Paris to seek an agreement, on the contrast to global warming and its harmful effects on the planet. In the environmental connection, Italy's desire to get to that appointment from a virtuous and advanced country is reflected in the overall picture: a country that believes in the circular and increasingly decarbonised economy. I want to say thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Vaccari, and all the senators who contributed in the debate in the Commission, for improving a text which over time has received widespread environmental sensitivities between the public and the productive groups, which can increase its merits and clarify its criticalities. The long, very long parliamentary confrontation, marked also by the change of government, the contingency of the election of the Head of State, the concomitant institutional reforms and by some decree-laws, has had the merit of enriching the provision and not to weaken it. And I sincerely thank the Senate Offices, especially those of the 13th Commission, for its professionalism and commitment. The rapporteur has pointed out precisely the issues that the text addresses. I would like to highlight a number of issues in particular, which have been discussed in detail in this House. The country must focus on sustainable mobility in order to protect the environment and improve the quality of life. The appropriation of €35 million for the national experimental programme of sustainable mobility home-school and home-work is a strong and concrete commitment to encourage initiatives such as footbus, car pooling, car sharing, bike pooling and bike sharing, the realization of protected routes near schools or workplaces. Important provisions are introduced to facilitate the use of green procurement for operators with European environmental certification. Minimum environmental criteria are also envisaged in public procurement, so-called CAMs for supplies and service assignments. In fact, through the leverage of public purchasing, which represents around 19% of GDP at European level, it is possible to reduce the environmental impacts caused by consumption by public administration, while achieving a rationalisation and reduction of public expenditure. I thank the many senators who have spoken on the subject of waste, remembering that on this matter, if we want them to become a resource and not a problem, we must aim to reduce the mass, reduce the costs for the municipalities and citizens. The waste management framework contained in the text provides for measures to increase separate collection and recycling, through appropriate modulations of the contribution of waste to landfill according to the degree of achievement by municipalities of the percentages provided for by state legislation. Moreover, through the modulation of the tariff of the urban hygiene service, the Regions can promote economic incentives for the municipalities implementing measures to prevent the production of waste in application of the principles and measures provided for in the national waste prevention programme. Important rules for their concrete effects are also those on the vacuum to render and on the so-called cigarette butts, with the introduction of specific sanctions for the abandonment of cigarette butts and cigars and providing for the re-use of these proceeds both for information campaigns and for the installation of the butt collectors in the municipalities; the reorganization of the authorities of the basin, aimed at rationalising its composition and operation; the financing for the demolition operations, by the municipalities, of abusive or otherwise irregular works and real estate from the point of view of urban authorisations, realized in areas subject to high or very high hydrogeological risk, or of works and buildings of which the exposure to hydrogeological risk is proven. On the hydrogeological and against the damages and tragedies that this causes because of the neglect of the past years the government has engaged a decisive battle. It is important therefore the fund for the design of interventions against hydrogeological failure, to which come 550 million allocated for the same purposes by CIPE in the session of 20 February 2015. Equally important, I believe is the establishment of a three-year tax credit for persons with company income who carry out asbestos reclamation operations on goods and production structures in national territory, as well as a fund at the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea for the preliminary and definitive design of reclamation operations in public buildings. A strong push for the green economy and for the sustainability of the Italian production system is regulated with the tool of Made Green Italy, which aims to strengthen the image and the communicative impact of Italian productions, associating the decisive aspect of environmental quality. It is a concrete measure, which also helps the sustainable tourism system, which - as mentioned in the debate - is a sector that deserves to be promoted and accompanied by system measures, which cross mobility, services and communication. With the Committee for Natural Capital we value the state of the country's natural capital, an immense resource of our country, recognized internationally by the Charter of Rome, signed during the Italian semester of European Presidency. With these, many other rules that I believe contribute to making the establishment of the measure consistent in the vision of environmental protection that becomes a resource and not a problem. The environment can really drive the recovery of the country, because the only possible development is that which passes through the declination in every productive sector of the green economy. In conclusion, there is space to do really good work. Thank you. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u55	Having appreciated the circumstances and not yet received the prescribed opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u58	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, when I come to speak at the end of the sitting, I no longer need to say what the subject I intend to discuss is: it is well known that it is always the same on time and on a weekly basis, namely that there is no answer to questions and questions. I do not know what to do, Mr President: Tell me again? All I have left is this, in a sort of submissive attitude, which I would say almost more of passive resistance. Do I have to go back to the principles of the founder of this struggle through passive resistance, which was Mahatma Gandhi? Or should I come to take an example from the events in Tiananmen Square in 1989, when a person stood in front of the tanks? The Premier then I think it was Deng Xiaoping, but now we have another one, Matteo Renzi: I don't want to make this comparison, but we are almost there. I am sorry to see that, despite the promises made by the Presidents of this House on several occasions, we have to repeat our rights, enshrined in a Rules of Procedure, continuously and insistently. What else can we do, Mr President? MUSSINI (Mixed). A flash mob! AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). What remains to be done to ensure that we answer our questions and questions, which are not ours, Mr President, but are the demands of the citizens, because this is the only instrument we have to bring them to the attention of the Government? There are questions and questions that await response from the beginning of the parliamentary term, so for two and a half years, and they will probably remain unanswered until the end of the parliamentary term. What will the Government respond to these citizens and what will it respond to the Members who have presented them? I don't know, I really want to see him: maybe he hopes that someone doesn't remind him, that in the end it's okay and that this arrogance doesn't have to be judged. As you can see, Mr President, this time I hold back the urge to raise my voice, because I always hope that through this method of passive resistance, now called by me on the example of those who preceded me much better than me (i.e. the people whom I referred to, which is Gandhi), something can be achieved. I very much hope so, Mr President, not for me, but for all the citizens who are asking for answers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u59	We hope so too, Senator Amidei. I don't want to give you any suggestions, but you could think of a hunger strike or something like that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u62	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, in our cities, the cases of citizens living on the street, without more than one euro in their pockets, without a roof over their heads, without more work, are becoming more and more numerous. Just as families and pensioners are constantly increasing in line at the canteens of Caritas. I report to the Assembly the situation Richard and Rosy, two citizens of Pisa who have been living in the car for three months together with their 12-year-old. A "normal" pair, with a quiet existence until, eighteen months ago, Riccardo lost his work as an electrician: since then their odyssey has begun. When Richard lost his job he was forced to leave home and had to go at first to live in Palermo. Then they returned to Tuscany, hoping that, after finding a job, everything would be back to normal. Despite the search for a new job and the continuous requests for help to the institutions, nothing happens to improve their situation. In the last three months the couple are forced to live in the car, together with their son, camping near the hospital in Cisanello, in order to take advantage of the essential toilets. Their situation was fortunately taken over by the activists of the 5 Star Movement of Pisa, including the battaller Valeria Antoni, municipal councilwoman of the Movement. Thanks to this meeting, along with social workers, the whole path has been started to ask for a housing emergency: an example of solidarity between citizens who take care of the problems of a family in difficulty. A collection of 5 Star Movement activists has also been organized to provide an immediate response to their needs. But this is a temporary solution, which does not solve the problem radically, because a house is needed as soon as possible, especially in view of winter, and substantial measures are needed to support income, so that a citizen who loses his job is not doomed to poverty. The case of Riccardo and Rosy shows once again the fragility of many families in the face of the crisis. The answer should be offered by the state, with a citizenship income [[Applause from Senator Puglia]] , a measure of social equity which the 5 Star Movement has been demanding with determination since it entered Parliament. In the next law of stability announced by Renzi for the poor we find only tweets and crumbs. Today, in Italy, there are about 9 million people living below the poverty line. We propose a measure of 17 billion, to give answers to more than 3 million families. This government keeps teasing us, proposing a spot solution that will satisfy at most a few hundred families. But you know, there are governments and governments, presidents and presidents. There are those who donate 90% of their salary to the poor and open the doors of Parliament, on cold winter nights, to those who do not have a home, like the former president of Uruguay Pepe Mujica, and those who decide to give the taxes of the first house to the millionaires and to give themselves state aircraft that will cost us 180 million euros. While, in all this, families like Riccardo and Rosy of Pisa, like Elizabeth, her husband and their son Andrea of Fiorenzuola, like Assunta and Giovanni of Catania and many others like them suffer. I think the Italians, Mr President, deserve a much better country and government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u65	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, today I want to say a few words on the basis of the exercise of NATO Trident Juncture: yet another exercise in violence, perpetrated using, among others, the territory of my land, Sardinia. Why for decades Sardinia has been used for the real purpose of preparing war events, without those who govern and governed in Rome and Cagliari being able to explain to the population what are the direct and indirect aims of this activity? In these days we see a drill taking place that is part of an incessant war activity, devastating from the environmental point of view and the health of the military and the civilian population, but above all unacceptable from the ethical point of view, because it prepares our and other forces for landings, cannons and bombings that have nothing to do with the defense of our territory, but rather with the preparation for the invasion of other territories and the aggressions of distant peoples, never able to threaten our citizens at home. Why has no one ever wanted to calculate the real costs borne by the island because of this incessant activity of war preparation, considering the failure to start economic activities incompatible with military maneuvers? Despite the lack of precise and publicly disclosed studies, it takes little to understand that the costs borne by Sardinia for these activities, for this colonial occupation of our territory, are greatly greater than those that would be endured by going to carry out the same activities in some desert part of our planet, provided that one can prove that these exercises serve the safety of someone and not, as I think, to aggravate the problems of world security, for unfettered ends of economic domination and of prevarication of the self-determination of peoples. It makes us reflect the fact that when it comes to contesting this type of activity, violent and colonialist, Sardinian politicians of opposing sides find themselves associated with each other, as today, but not with the Movement of which the undersigned is part (the 5 Star Movement), evidently united by the failure of the various regional governments that in turn have alternated in countering, more or less weakly, but nevertheless weakly, their Roman government references. The Trident Juncture exercise, a muscular test of a dangerous and obsolete model of defence, is yet another act of arrogance of international militarist powers, which strikes the blameless populations of Sardinia, Sicily, Campania, Spain, Portugal and so on, but above all the consciences of the peoples who should and would like to find in peace and nonviolence both the means and the ends of their lives, because while violence is always a means for other unconfessible objectives, nonviolence is at the same time a means and an end for the coexistence of peoples. To the citizens who care for a civil coexistence there is nothing left but to protest, as the Sardinians will do in the vicinity of the military base of Teulada next 31 October and 3 November. I would like to conclude my message with a declaration of solidarity to all the military engaged in the exercises of Trident Juncture, defence professionals used in a distorted way with respect to the security purposes that our peoples deserve, as well as exposed to unnecessary dangers and to being the blameless actors of a great waste of public resources. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u66	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-528.ana.u67	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 22 October, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.48 p.m.
