ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 10 December.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.36 a.m. and resumed at 9.57 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u6	Colleagues, we shall proceed again to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u9	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I again request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 10:18 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.58 a.m. and resumed at 10.18 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u11	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u14	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I again request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u15	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Colleagues, I believe that today's sitting is unique, so if there were to be no quorum, our work would resume tomorrow. I therefore suspend the sitting until 10.40 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10:18 a.m. and resumed at 10.40 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u16	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u19	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I again request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u20	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u21	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u22	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 10.41).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u23	I say that Parliament is convened today at 7 p.m. for the vote on the election of three judges of the Constitutional Court. The call will begin with the senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u24	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposals to amend the timetable. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting on 10 December the Assembly was informed of the timetable adopted by a majority by the Conference of Leaders, on which proposals for amendments have been made. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Senator De Petris' proposal to include in the timetable the debate on motion No 496 on the State Railways. Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the proposed changes to the agenda of the president's proceedings. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings to include the discussion of motion No 496 on the State Railways, tabled by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings aimed at reversing the order of examination of the draft RAI reform law and the draft delegation law on procurement, put forward by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to include the examination of the draft law on the separation of commercial banks and business banks, made by Senator Candiani. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the examination of the motion on the nuclear armament of the F35, tabled by Senator Giarrusso. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to include the examination of the documents drawn up by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the proposed changes to the agenda of the president's proceedings. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the examination of the documents drawn up by Senator Giarrusso, the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Group Heads on 10 December and communicated to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u25	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2145. The rapporteur, Senator Lai, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law containing "Measures for interventions in the territory" was adopted first of all to ensure the extraordinary Jubilee desired by Pope Francis, with interventions to ensure its initiation in the best possible conditions for pilgrims and citizens of the Capital, through interventions aimed at safety, the extraordinary management of the health system and urban and periurban transport. Secondly, for reasons of extraordinary necessity and urgency, financial interventions in favour of certain territorial areas in critical situation, such as the area of Bagnoli and the so-called land of fires, as well as to allow the enhancement of the Expo 2015 area after the conclusion of the international event. The measure also contains important measures of an urgent nature, including measures of a financial nature in the field of infrastructure and transport, in the employment sector and for the promotion of Made in Italy, as well as for the promotion of volunteering in civil service, for the recovery of housing in public housing, for the implementation of interventions in urban suburbs and, finally, for the support of cinema and cultural heritage. During the examination in the Commission, the text of the measure has been supplemented with further urgent interventions concerning matters already present, starting with those aimed at guaranteeing, for the next year, connectivity on iron of medium and long journey through the extension for 2016 of the contract of service with Trenitalia, to move to that linked to the equiordination of the security and defence sector, strongly awaited also because of the peculiar phase that makes particularly sensitive the citizens because of the international terrorism of radical religious matrix, until the release of resources already committed since 2014 for the flood occurred in 2013 in Sardinia and the resources that constitute the co-financing of the costs for personnel engaged in Calabria in the socially useful works, already discussed in the examination of the bill of stability in Senate and referred to other measure. The measure under consideration represents, in a certain sense, an innovation from the point of view of the finding of the resources, for the fact that Government has noted as certain the fact that some of these had been placed predictively too much in relation to the actual needs recorded, or were impossible to spend during 2015; and this in contrast to an urgent need for territorial interventions expected of regional dimension as well as national character that, on the contrary, required immediately binding and expendable resources. Of course, these include those for which, even at the international level, there is a particular attention to the capacities that the country is able to put in place, in particular the celebration of the Jubilee and also the after Expo. As for the Jubilee, last August the Government has already taken a decision to authorize an organic and coordinated plan of interventions. In relation to the conduct of the Extraordinary Jubilee, Article 6 of the Decree-Law to our examination provides for the establishment of a "Fund for the realization of jubilee interventions" with some priorities: the security of the city of Rome Capital, mobility, the strengthening of health services for emergency interventions, the protection of urban decorum and the redevelopment of the suburbs. The framework of the urgent initiatives for the success of the Jubilee is completed with Article 7, in which measures are provided to ensure a greater garrison of the territory at the event and in particular authorising, for this reason, the use of an additional military contingent of 1,500 units until June 30, 2016. The total budget of the Fund is approximately 160 million, of which 94 million for 2015 and the remaining 65 for 2016, providing for the use of resources not used in the current year for the following year, while 47 million more are allocated to the Lazio Region, specifically for the part linked to mobility and health services. Just as important, it was only for the international visibility and the expectation on the after Expo, is what is provided for in Article 5, with a series of provisions aimed at allowing first of all the valorization of the areas on which the Universal Exhibition of Milan 2015 has just ended, successfully, for a total value of 150 million euros. The interventions are of an urgent nature to ensure the full exploitation of the site and the infrastructures it carries out. In particular, a contribution of 80 million euros is foreseen for the realization in the area of a technological scientific pole in collaboration with the Italian Institute of Technology and another for an amount equal to 50 million euros for the valorization of the areas in use to the company Expo SpA, also through the participation in the capital of the company owner. Finally, a further EUR 20 million is allocated to contribute to the expenses incurred to ensure the security of the site during the event. The third intervention, expected to be as important as quantitatively, is the one defined in Article 13, where the refinancing of the Social Fund for employment and training, amounting to EUR 400 million, is planned for 2015 to be allocated to the financing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation. These resources are recovered from the established economies of the Fund for workers' interventions protected by pension reform. In the debate in the Commission, the concern was expressed that the resources earmarked for the protection of exodus would prevent the planned intervention of these workers. But it has been made clear on time that the forecast has been formulated on the basis of an all-inclusive audience which has then been reduced during the next phase of the participation of individual workers in the planned process. It must be said, moreover, that the intervention on the Integration Fund by way of derogation was particularly awaited by the Regions, and not only by the Mezzogiorno, also in order to avoid further delays in the delivery of what has represented in recent years the only source of income for many families, an equally urgent and necessary intervention. In addition to the resources necessary for the Jubilee, the decree-law intervenes on further issues particularly urgent for the environmental and territorial character they cover. In Article 1, 50 million euros are allocated to start activities that can no longer be postponed for the protection of the health of citizens and the urban regeneration of the Bagnoli-Coroglio area. Article 2 provides for extraordinary interventions to deal with an existing serious criticality regarding the disposal of waste in Campania, through an extraordinary plan for the disposal of waste and the reclamation of the territories used, which is financed for 150 million euros, whose responsibility is entrusted to the President of the Region. These are measures aimed at tackling a problem, covering the period 2000-2009, of the failure to dispose of waste which - I stress - has resulted in a double condemnation by the European Union and the payment of heavy sanctions, 20 million euros one-off - that is what the country has paid - and a daily penalty of 120,000 euros until the complete resolution of non-compliance. These resources are still being made available by the Government for the sanctions of the European Union as a matter of duty. Article 3 provides for the allocation to the Municipality of Reggio Calabria of a contribution of approximately 10 million euros, as a refreshment of the burden borne by the same Municipality for the reimbursement of liquidity advances intended for the payment of due debts of the public administration. It is, in fact, a provision aimed at supporting the return to normality of the municipality after the dissolution of the elective organs for mafia infiltrations and the subsequent phase of commissioning. Article 4 provides, for the year 2015, the increase of 50 million euros of the Fund for national emergencies, also following new alluvial events that have affected different areas of the country. In the field of public works and infrastructure and transport, the decree-law under consideration provides for some interventions that appear at first sight minor, but which are nevertheless urgent and awaited in the territories. In Article 9, in particular, the deadline for the applicability and the feasibility of works relating to airports is re-lined. Article 10 gives the Region of Sardinia €30 million, for the year 2015, with the commitment to a trienniality, in order to guarantee territorial continuity and improve the system of air connections to and from the island, so that the right to mobility, already financed by the Region, can be extended also to passengers not resident throughout the year, with the application of the public service charges provided by the European Union. Article 11 provides, for the allocation of financial spaces under the Internal Stability Pact, EUR 50 million for municipalities which have taken action on metropolitan lines. On social and employment issues, the decree-law, in addition to the intervention on the Integration Fund by way of derogation, provides for an increase in the National Civil Service Fund of 100 million euros, aimed at increasing the number of young volunteers under thirty years to be started at the national civil service, which replaced the mandatory leverage. Article 14 provides for measures to encourage, for a total amount of EUR 25 million for 2015, maintenance measures of no significant importance on the public housing heritage, which have been expected for some time to complete operations initiated and not sufficiently funded for the size and diffusion of this requirement. They also serve to ensure social intervention in disadvantaged areas and to prevent the phenomena of urban degradation and illegal occupation of those buildings. In Article 15 - and I stress this because it has an element related to the news - urgent measures are envisaged to facilitate the construction of sports facilities in the urban suburbs. In particular, it is planned to set up the Sport and Suburbs Fund, with a total budget of EUR 100 million over the three years 2015-2017, aimed at the recovery or completion of sports facilities in less-favoured areas where economic and social balance is to be achieved through the choices and proposals that the ICON will advance to the Presidency of the Council. In this context there are important interventions in the direction of non-profit with possibilities for local authorities. In this respect, the Commission has extended not only to municipalities but also to other local authorities the possibility of granting the existing facilities to sports associations in agreement, also for their restructuring and, therefore, for their regulation. It has also extended the possibility to associations and sports companies to adhere to CONSIP conventions for the provision of services useful for the management of the same facilities. Finally, I would like to point out to Article 8 a substantial element. Also at this moment, in which some important Italian brand companies placed on the international market are purchased or financed by important international entities, it is important to emphasize a 10 million appropriation for the activities of the Plan for the extraordinary promotion of Made in Italy. In this context, 8 million are destined to carry out campaigns of strategic promotion and of contrast to the phenomenon of the so-called Italian soiling, which consists in the use of Italian names for products that are not at all manufactured in Italy or absolutely attributable to them. It is a practice that induces the non-expert consumer, especially the international one, through the use of words, colors, images and geographical references, to mistakenly associate a non-Italian product with Italy. And this obviously produces an economic damage to companies but, above all, a reputation damage to our country. Finally, I note the increase of EUR 25 million in the culture of the Fund for the support of cinema and cultural heritage, from EUR 115 million to EUR 140 million, which allows its use for tax credit in the film and audiovisual sector. I would add that the Commission has wished to point out with an agenda the need for these resources to be used as a priority in the regions of the Mezzogiorno, which are also natural scenarios for a cinema that is also of international appeal to our country. Article 17 indicates the modalities of coverage that are, overall, 765 million euros for the year 2015, 130 million euros for the year 2016 and 30 million euros for the year 2017. Overall, it is a measure that addresses above all the support for security and the best success of the Jubilee of Mercy. It is indeed an international stage, as well as a moment of prayer for many Christians, and of calling attention to the centrality in the world and their capacity to promote the peace of religions, especially in this phase of its beginning and first development, in which the machine of security is more delicate and higher is the international tension, with important resources also entrusted, in their management, to the local institutions with an agreed plan. Secondly, it intervenes - on the one hand - on several issues that remained unresolved during 2015 and that, on the other hand, need a response before the end of the year and - on the other hand - it includes interventions on issues, particularly social issues. I mentioned the Cassa Integrazione by way of derogation and I recall it, because it is important to give certainties to the families who survive through this single sustenance to that phase of crisis that, if we read some signs, seems to be in the phase of conclusion. The Government considered it necessary to address these issues immediately, which have needs and effects for 2015, but go and go beyond 2016. These rules, prepared in order to respond to requests for intervention related to the urgency of the territory or in terms of works or garrison of the territory, are also linked to the need to use sums available from the 2015 budget that, otherwise, would have ended up in the economy. This is a choice - and I stress this - which has been discussed in the Commission and criticized by one side of the opposition, but which, in my opinion, is certainly an initiative that affects the speed of public spending through a purely political and national decision that wants to be a more general direction for other local authorities and regions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u27	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Bernini to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u28	Mr President, the question referred to me by Mr QP1 does not, unfortunately - and I apologise to my colleagues - have the characteristic of novelty. But this - alas - does not depend on us. We have reached the 42nd Decree-Law of the Renzi Government. We have not even turned the mark of the two years of government and we are already examining the 42nd decree-law, which we know to be, by express constitutional precept, founded on its legitimacy on requirements of necessity and urgency, requirements once again - colleagues, let's face it clearly, and it is not a vezzo - totally absent. I thank Mr Lai for his report, which has been accurate (as always the colleague is expert and certainly attentive in his listings), but which is nothing but a list of expenditure, an illustration of territorial tips - I do not want to call them electoral, because I do not see that at the moment there are elections in progress, except to ignore something that others know - whose red thread - and this states in a very naive way the same illustrative report accompanying the decree-law - is to give little to few, not satisfying anyone and in total disregard of Article 77 of the Constitution, which says that all this can happen only in the face of assumptions of necessity, urgency and - colleagues, let us not forget - homogeneity. This, however, also takes place in contempt of our accounting law that, in the face of every rule of expenditure, there must be a corresponding, consequent and very clear measure of coverage, which in this case - and never like in this case, colleagues - is missing. Here we have a measure that I have called territorial tip - I use the word tip to not use another more unpleasant and certainly does not hair to the sensitive ears of my colleagues - and that is nothing more than a sort of financial mignon, a bonsai measure, which also goes hand in hand with a law of stability that could not have, but had to accept these spending measures. Colleagues, these are spending measures. I realize that for two years now we have been systematically violating the Constitution and "sputting in one eye" of the President of the Republic, who, when installed, recommended that we not make the urgent decree, which must be by its exceptional nature, an ordinary legislative instrument, and adding to be discreet referee if the players are corrected. But here, colleagues, players are not correct. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups and Senator Taverna]] Players are acting very unfairly and this is an offensive measure, once again, against the poor President of the Republic who, like Napolitano, is forced to sign it - I imagine - with mountaineering approach. This is an expenditure measure which should not be examined because it violates not only the Constitution, but also the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which - I understand, it is now a duty to say so - would have constitutional value in itself. In fact, it is said that, when we are in the budgetary session, we cannot either in our committees, or even in this House, schedule expenditure measures. We are, however, doing so, but what do we care? Let us violate the Constitution and, therefore, what problem is there to violate a simple parliamentary regulation? It is true that paragraph 12 of Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure states that, in the face of absolute indefensibility, it is possible to schedule, even at the same time as the budgetary session, expenditure measures. Colleagues, there is one small detail: have you heard the list of my colleague Lai, who goes from the reclamation of the area of Bagnoli (not exactly a topic of burning topicality) to the financing of the city of Reggio Calabria? Someone has to explain to me why we give Reggio Calabria something that is not bestowed on other Italian cities, where the conditions are often the same. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In fact, perhaps some Italian cities find themselves, in a much more blameless way, in much worse conditions. It gives the Expo and the development of an area, on the basis of which there is no need to know anything about the development and design of this Parliament that has been ignored and mistreated. We pass through a Jubilee of Mercy to get to the ecoballs of Campania, to measures for sport in the suburbs, and tips to cinema and voluntary civil service. Do I have to add anything else, colleagues? Are we talking about indifferent measures? We are talking about an unworthy layering of measures, an unworthy piece of legislation that penalises all of us, colleagues. We are going hand in hand, with this indecent measure that offends together the Constitution, the President of the Republic and all of us, to a law of stability as never before seen in nature, on which we had to negotiate desperately a few euros, asking for the acceptance of opposition amendments, as always ignored (for lack of cover, we were told). In the House, on the contrary, we are overestimating the law of stability, transforming it into something that has never been in the history of the Italian Republic, inserting provisions of an importance, of a gravity, of a frightening consistency. This is the case with the four banks which have impoverished categories of savers. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Taverna]] or financial intermediaries. These are measures which I do not even have to list and which are all of expenditure. Colleagues, with this decree-law we are going hand in hand with a law of stability in deficit, increasingly in deficit, which is based on a European flexibility clause. It is a law of stability that starts from the deficit of 1.4%, sails on 2.2 percent and now settles on 2.4 percent. Think of how obese she is, how elephantic she has become in a totally unilateral parliamentary passage, because we have not at all participated in this. We're getting used to being non-participating observers. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S and CoR),]] and not only we of the opposition, but also you of the majority. Colleagues, let us remember that this is a dramatic precedent: we are observing a loss of Parliament's prerogatives without doing anything. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, above all, to reflect on this, because we democratically suffer the minority of numbers and, therefore, equally democratically, we must accept that, while voting against it, this vote against is of no value. Colleagues, we are faced with a financial bonsai, mignon - this shameful measure is a handful - that approaches unduly to a law of stability which has nothing of mignon and which is becoming an elephant, financed in deficit on a flexibility clause that Europe has not yet authorized us. We still do not have Europe's permission to cross the line. In the face of all this, ladies and gentlemen, I would once again ask you to consider that we are beyond the violation and offence of parliamentary prerogatives. Here we are taking risks, serious and important risks of delegitimizing our business, which, moreover, in the eyes of third parties, to those who look at us from outside, still has its importance. We share all the responsibilities of the government's actions. When people hear about what is happening in the newspapers or television programs, they talk about the law of stability, about a law not only of the Government, but of the Government and of Parliament and, therefore, the responsibility is shared. Never before do I tell you to pay attention, because the modus operandi is always to authoritatively impose expenditure measures financed in deficit or with linear cuts (in the case of this decree-law on local authorities even with linear cuts) that are said to be financed with respect to the 2015 budget, which is said - and this would be the rule - not to want to go into economics. It is a further contempt for parliamentary prerogatives, because we have been told that there were no active residues from the 2015 budget. I repeat that, once again, the Government takes on an attitude in contempt of parliamentary prerogatives, it finances measures with unsuited, unsafe posts, which our budgetary service systematically points out to us, on an absolutely unconstitutional merit because it is not based on conditions of necessity and urgency and, in any case, uneven. For all these reasons, the Forza Italia Group requests that the measure not be examined. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S and CoR.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u29	I greet the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Antonio De Curtis" in Rome, who are assisting from the forums to our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u30	He asked Senator Candiani to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u31	Mr President, we have presented the question of the preliminary ruling QP2 because we believe that there are broad and important profiles of unconstitutionality in the decree-law in question, which are dictated by the fact that the same totally lacks the prerequisites of necessity and urgency provided for, instead, by Article 77 of the Constitution. And even worse, it is a measure that is totally lacking in homogeneity. Mr President, it was the end of 2013 when the then Secretary of the Democratic Party wrote a press release imposing the decay of a decree-law that was in conversion: it was called "save Rome." It was a heterogeneous decree-law, which mixed apples with pears and put everything, so that it was not understood what the content was. In that case he shouted at the scandal, because it was a decree-law that lacked homogeneity and the presuppositions of necessity and urgency, and was allowed to lapse, by choice of the Democratic Party. It has been a few months, a little over a year, and we are with the same person, who today plays the role of President of the Council of Ministers, who, with contempt for the Constitution, proposes this decree-law that everything has except the presuppositions of urgency and necessity and homogeneity. Mr President, we should not be surprised that scandals are coming out in the country, that intertwine government policy with shady interests in the world of finance, because these are the same ways that we find in this decree-law, which presents itself with one image and contains another. Urgent action for the territory: but what urgent action, if we talk about ecoballs and waste that have been in Campania since 2009? But what urgency, if we talk about Made in Italy, putting expenditure items of millions of euros when they are just over two weeks away from the end of the year? This money will never be spent. But what homogeneity of the same measures, if there are interventions that give the CONI improper functions, as if it were arbiter to decide which interventions should be meritorious of financing and which not, in spite of any regulation, mixing them together with interventions for the Jubilee? I wonder, then, Mr President, what is the purpose behind this measure. Certainly it is a clientele purpose, which once again characterizes the politics of this Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] a clientele purpose that, once again, the Democratic Party wants to bring in these classrooms, making citizens believe to act with emergency interventions to solve problems with measures that the territory has been waiting for for a long time, creating discrimination. Mr President, I should like to know where the need and urgency lies in leaving in the hands of the Municipality of Reggio Calabria, which once again has gone over the accounts, money that would be due to all the municipalities and which, on the other hand, is made available only to that body, in contempt of any respect for the sacrifices supported by all others in order to comply with the Stability Pact. Mr President, there is absolutely no need for urgency in this text. We believe that this can only lead to a rejection of the measure and that, for these reasons, it should not be examined. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u32	He asked Senator Bruni to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u33	Mr President, I do not return to many of the points made by my previous colleagues, particularly Mr Bernini, because they are all acceptable. I just say that it is bad to find ourselves in this Chamber to call, again and again, a long list of decisions of the Constitutional Court or - as Senator Candiani said - warnings of former Presidents of the Republic sitting here today, perhaps immemorial, in order to remind myself, before you, that the form of government of this country continues to be that of parliamentary democracy. The defence of constitutional rules, which is distinguished from mere and physiological political contradictory, should not be the prerogative of only parliamentary minorities, but a shared objective, because it translates into the safeguarding of democracy; that democracy which today is up to us to defend, but which, in a regime of alternation, tomorrow could touch on you of the current majority. In understanding the human and political embarrassment of who among you, by order of stables, is called to look elsewhere, I believe that the importance of this fundamental value imposes on the entire Parliament and today on this House, transversally, without any distinction between majority and minority, an assumption of responsibility and a manifestation of courage, regardless of opportunistic calculations concerning the individual measures of the decree-law. We are all aware that the principle of separation of powers has been accepted in our order, even in a temperate form. However, I would point out that the Commission's interference in the implementation of legislation cannot and must never result in the permanent and stable expropriation of Parliament's constitutional prerogatives. Since the beginning of the Renzi era, however, the Government has issued 71 decree-laws, of which 70 already examined by the Chambers, thus determining a serious crisis of the physiological constitutional structure of the relations between Government and Parliament in the exercise of the legislative function. As proof of this, consider the major difficulties in the planning of Parliament's work, linked to the need to devote a large part of the time available for the discussion of these measures. In such a crisis of the relationship between the powers of the State, the decree-law under consideration today is another emblematic example of how the Executive should not act. Legal purposes are not necessary to understand the complete unevenness of the subjects covered by the measure: ranging from measures for the Bagnoli - Coriglio area to interventions for civil volunteering, from measures for the recovery of public housing to those for cinema and culture, not to mention the intervention concerning socially useful workers (LSU) in Calabria. All this is then masked, in the eyes of public opinion, by Articles 6 and 7, concerning the Jubilee: therefore, for public opinion, that which we examine is the decree on the Jubilee, although it deals only with two articles out of 17. The large number of measures, which are very heterogeneous among them, are indicative of the obvious lack of the requirement of the extraordinary need and urgency to provide. This was also said by the rapporteur, Senator Lai: the others were measures relating to interventions that were intended to be planned and launched by 2015. I therefore leave it to you to judge whether we are in the presence of the requirement of extraordinary necessity and urgency. In fact, according to the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, the prerequisites for the exercise without delegation of legislative power by the Government concern the decree-law in its entirety, understood as a set of uniform provisions for the matter or purpose. The atomistic breakdown of the condition of validity prescribed by the Constitution contrasts with the necessary link between the urgent legislative provision and the "case" which made it necessary, transforming the decree-law into a cluster of rules assembled only by mere temporal chance. As stated at the outset, however, I have no intention of declaring the long series of decisions of the Constitutional Court, which, moreover, endorse what has been said, nor of bringing back the others that show how the law of conversion, as a law functionalized to the stabilization of a measure having the force of law, can never heal the original non-compliance of the decree with the Constitutional law of reference. Do you really have to wait, then, for the expected ex post reaction of the constitutional judge to take note of what I'm saying? Do you, then, want to continue with this blind pervicacity to ignore the evidence? We in the Conservative and Reformist Group demand that Parliament be the Parliament: not the government, not the Constitutional Court. It is for this reason that, by way of a preliminary ruling, we ask that we do not examine today's measure, because it is unconstitutional because it is clearly contrary to Article 77 of the Constitution, but also and above all because we want Parliament, in the exercise of its ordinary constitutional prerogatives, to examine the capacity of resistance in the order of the measure that is to be issued, without waiting for it to be again the Council to put a further seal of inability on the work of the Chambers. For the reasons set out above, we insist on the question of unconstitutionality, which I have just explained.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u34	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u37	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. In fact, despite the application of which the rapporteur has demonstrated, indeed, precisely from the very report of Senator Lai, who has described in detail the many interventions contained in the decree-law in question, the unconstitutionality of the provision under Article 77 of the Constitution is manifested even more. However, for the truth - I address Senator Bernini - this is ultimately an innovation, because for years now we have been accustomed to the fact that after the law of stability (or the financial law of the past) came the famous decree milleproroghe, which in fact was an omnibus decree. This time it has been anticipated and before the definitive approval of the law of stability, in fact, we find ourselves with a decree-law that can only define itself omnibus, therefore the premises of homogeneity are clearly non-existent. I would like to point out that the text before us contains 18 types of speeches, some of which could also be supported in this respect. I am thinking, for example, of the interventions for the Jubilee, which are certainly also urgent, but we wonder why he expected so much time to launch the measure, waiting for the decree-law on the Jubilee to actually be issued long before. In this regard we could discuss for a long time the choice made by the Government, because the Pope gave the announcement of the Jubilee of Mercy now many months ago, so there were all the conditions to be able to move in time, not creating the difficulties in which we all find ourselves today. There is also a series of interventions that frankly go beyond the unevenness: I refer to 18 types of measures, starting with those for the Municipality of Reggio Calabria. I would point out that other amendments which we have tabled, for example on socially useful workers, of the same urgency and importance from the social and employment point of view have also been declared inadmissible, but this is the mystery that accompanies this type of intervention every time. There are also clearly non-urgent provisions. Do we want to talk about the contribution to the ICON, which, among other things, with these resources should create sports facilities in the urban outskirts? Was there a need for a decree-law in which, among other things, everything is entrusted to the ICON without not only Parliament but not even the local authorities being able to indicate or articulate the priorities of intervention? We could continue, for example, on territorial continuity for Sardinia: a measure that we certainly agree with, but we have been asking this question for a long time and certainly the urgency has been established for a very long time now. So, in our view, there was a need for much more structured intervention. I could then continue with the arrangements for the cinema. I repeat that some interventions can also be supported, but overall they are 18 uneven measures, some of which are clearly not urgent, because they could easily be included in other measures much more homogeneous. It is as if there were some kind of continuation: already the bill of stability in the first passage to the Senate was a bit characterized by a series of micro-interventions. Evidently it was not enough and it was seen, on the part of the Government, a sort of necessity for further interventions and micro-interventions, by means of a decree-law. Once upon a time there was the Mancha law; today the layout and the modalities have changed, but in the end we always get to the same point. This is the 42nd decree of this government. Frankly, for our part, we consider it almost superfluous to re-examine a preliminary question every time, because this has become the normal way in which laws are made and the type of intervention is decided, expropriating Parliament once again almost completely. We all know how these decrees end in most cases: they are uneven and not urgent, therefore in clear violation of Article 77, and they all end in the same way, that is, with the Government that will almost certainly put trust in this decree-law (and so the iter is complete). This has become the only and exclusive way in which in this country it legislates, totally expropriating Parliament, in the law of stability, in the decrees, in the ordinary laws, in the draft laws of total reform, in the delegations. This is exactly the way we are now subjected to every day, and we shall therefore vote in favour of the constitutional prejudices. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u40	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I would just like to make a quick comment, particularly on those Members who raised the questions of constitutionality in relation to the conditions of necessity and urgency of the decree. None of my colleagues has highlighted perhaps the most important feature of this measure, which of course can be discussed, because everything is being discussed in this House. It concerns precisely the coverage of this measure, which is, for the vast majority of the resources used (these are significant resources, because we are close to the billion euros), from the 2015 budget. Therefore, the prerequisites of necessity and urgency derive from this element, which of course could, yes, be the subject of discussion; i.e. the ways in which to use, up to the last cent, all the resources available to the 2015 budget could be discussed. Of course this is part of a philosophy that the Government is following at this stage, which aims to promote the recovery of growth, with a certain tenacity and with a certain determination. There is therefore no attempt to leave anything to promote growth, including the provision of all the resources in the 2015 budget, with all the risk elements that this entails and that have been highlighted in the very serious and in-depth debate (even if rapid) held in the Budget Commission. I would particularly like to ask Mrs Bernini, who has, as always, made a very serious and passionate speech, to bear this important aspect in mind. Then there is an urgency and a need for matter. For example, many colleagues have mentioned the issue of the Jubilee: if anything in this case we are late and there is no time to lose. But the crucial element of this decree is precisely the point I was talking about before and this makes it complementary to the law of stability, which as is known concerns the budget of next year, while this decree insists on the 2015 budget and tries to use - for objectives on which I have not felt great objections of merit, because in itself, seen one by one, are all objectives difficult to dispute with respect to the interests of the country - all the resources that still lie in the folds of the 2015 budget. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u41	We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u42	Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 2145 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the question referred to you for a number of reasons by Senator Bernini and other senators (QP1), Senator Centinario and other senators (QP2) and Senator Bruni and other senators (QP3). It's not approved. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u43	Mr President, first of all I would like to make a brief comment on the issue of financing the Italian Institute of Technology (ITI), remembering that in the Commission itself we had pointed out that the investment that will go to the city of Milan is certainly positive and should not be understood as a further trap to the city from Genoa, where IIT has been present for many years, but rather as a widening of the geographical area of operation of the Institute. When we talk about Silicon Valley we refer to a large area and certainly not small: in the same way, we need a connection between the IIT of Genoa and that of Milan, thus configuring the financing under consideration as extremely positive for the two cities. Another issue addressed in this measure, which I would like to stress, concerns territorial continuity. The city of Genoa and Liguria are now totally isolated. Since the Vueling company no longer guarantees the air link between Genoa and Rome in competition with Alitalia, tickets have come to cost 900 euros, truly creating the isolation of Liguria. Seafarers have no longer attended assemblies in Rome because 10, 15 people cannot be forced to spend 900 euros on an airplane. I emphasize the gravity of the situation of Liguria also because of the presence of the single track in the Ligurian Riviera of Ponente. The situation of the so-called Third Jupiter Pass is also very serious: there is so much talk of a third financed pass, but we will not see its light before eight, ten years. At this moment the connection between Genoa and Milan is guaranteed by shameful trains that take an hour and forty minutes. There is an Italy that goes at high speed, connecting the cities of Turin, Milan, Bologna, Florence, Rome and Naples, in front of areas of the country at low speed like, indeed, Liguria. Even, the connection between Genoa and Rome is guaranteed by trains that take five hours, while it could take three hours and thirty minutes passing from Florence. Liguria is no longer able to move forward in these conditions, being totally penalized in terms of tourism and the establishment of companies. Even there are companies that think to leave Genoa precisely because of the total lack of connections. In this sense it is essential that Liguria is recognized the need for territorial continuity so as to be able to access the public funds of the Regions that in the future will perhaps be allocated to ensure adequate connections. I quote, in this regard, a document from the Study Service of the Chamber of Deputies which states that territorial continuity is absolutely not only related to the islands, which obviously have the highest right and absolute necessity. In fact, in this draft law, Sardinia rightly receives additional funds to improve its extremely critical situation, but the House document points out that territorial continuity, intended as an ability to guarantee a transport service that does not penalise citizens resident in less favoured territories, is part of the more general framework of guaranteeing the substantial equality of citizens and of economic and social cohesion promoted in Europe. Transport, in fact, if on the one hand it is an economic activity and on the other it is an essential element of the right to mobility, provided for in Article 16 of the Constitution, constitutes a service of general economic interest and therefore - important point - such that it must be guaranteed to all citizens, regardless of their geographical location. In this sense I have prepared an agenda (which I will present later, as far as I think I have already done with this brief intervention), with which I ask that the lack of territorial continuity be recognized to the Liguria Region. Conversely, it would not be possible to use public funds to eliminate this problem, because they would become unlawful state aid, while if the Government could obtain in Europe the recognition of an area without territorial continuity for Liguria, State aid would become permissible and legitimate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u44	She is registered to speak Senator Granaiola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u45	Mr President, in view of the limited time available, I would like to be able to deliver the text of my speech, by restricting myself to expressing the issues I am most interested in. With this measure we intend to respond to more than one urgency, with different interventions but linked to each other, as stated in the presentation and as Senator Tonini reminded us, by a fil rouge constituted by the will to use sums available on the 2015 budget, avoiding that they go into economics. Intense praiseworthy given the times, first because allowing the opposite to happen would be a luxury that we cannot afford and second because - despite some perplexities, especially methodological, on which I would like to emphasize - the interventions provided for in this bill concern actions and works that will in any case have a positive relapse directly in different territories, in terms of works or garrison of the territories themselves. The first two articles concern urgent interventions of environmental rehabilitation and urban regeneration: the first is an intervention of environmental rehabilitation in the area of Bagnoli-Coroglio; the second, again in the Campania Region, following the onerose condemnation inflicted to Italy by the European Court of Justice for the non-compliance in the matter of ecoballe and treatment of urban waste. Two issues of serious criticality, which certainly require extraordinary and urgent measures. I cannot help but note, however, that in the end, in some way, in doing so, we always end up rewarding the urgency resulting from a fault: a logic, that of the guilty urgency, which in this country seems never to end. Instead of investing to promote or reward choices, stories and virtuous behaviors, in fact, we are forced to remedy situations that have claimed environmental and urban degradation. That being the case, I can't help but wonder what studies, the ranking of priorities we are responding to. I would therefore like to draw the House's attention to the importance of the culture of verification as a fundamental instrument for assessing both the practicality and feasibility of the projects and their outcome. A proper identification of the objectives, strategies to be put in place and an appropriate evaluation are, in my opinion, the instruments to be put in place to combat waste and inefficiencies, or worse illegal behaviour. And they are certainly the best way to ensure that the resources put in place are not wasted. The same references to concreteness, precision, precise definition of objectives, identification of beneficiaries and evaluation of results seem to me to apply also to Article 6, in particular to paragraph 2 with the too general reference, at the end of the paragraph, to the system of health services. Perhaps it would have been better to be more precise and precise, considering also the fact that we are considering an intervention aimed at the success of a great event such as the Jubilee and a health sector, in deep suffering especially on the front of the emergency (just think about the situation of the first aid). On the other hand, I have some concerns about the wording of Article 15 and the fact that the Commission has not been asked for its opinion on culture, sport and tourism. The title of Article 15: " Urgent measures to facilitate the construction of sports facilities in urban suburbs" seems to me to have little to do with the real content. Meanwhile, the relationship between national competitive sports activities and the care of disadvantaged urban areas is not very clear. In essence, the article focuses on national competitive activities. Obviously I have nothing against the CONI and the competitive activities of high level and professional, but if this is the theme maybe it would have been much better to treat it as such without generating other expectations. I would ask you to attach the remaining part of the written text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in general debate and, as this is yet another omnibus decree, I will make an omnibus speech. I will explain some positions on Article 5 and, therefore, Expo and then on Article 6, more inherent in the Jubilee, which is the article that gives the title to this decree. We have not yet had time to recover from the hangover of Expo that we are still intervening with new funding for this company. I say this because the numbers related to this event are still not known. We do not yet know precisely, having no certified numbers, the real tributaries to this event. Someone is also making comparisons with the natural data of the city of Milan. The standard tourist attraction of the city of Milan stands out on several million visitors each year. This should be compared with the result of the Expo event. I also spoke at the amending level on Article 5 in two main respects. First of all, we are downstream of this demonstration and we have not had any reports. I am not just referring to the data on tributaries, but also to what we promised a few months ago, a few years ago. One of the first acts we discussed here was the Senate Act 576, concerning Decree-Law No 43 of 26 April 2013. Basically in this decree-law it was written that the environmental sustainability of the Expo event was guaranteed by the energy sustainability of the permanent pavilions. At this moment we do not know the actual data on permanent or temporary pavilions. Above all, this energy compensation would have had an effect on the non-sustainability of the event under construction. An overall energy balance on the Expo event would be appropriate for us and above all necessary in terms of law because in 2013, in the Senate Act 576, now law n. 71 of 2013, declared the sustainability of the event. It would be extremely important for us for this sustainability to be certified even in terms of permanent or temporary pavilions. So, we want to have an environmental review of what the event was. The same article also refers to the availability of about 80 million euros for the Italian Institute of Technology. But this is done, in my view, in a rather embarrassing way. It is requested that the Italian Institute of Technology, against a financing of 80 million euros, draft a project for the next years for the Expo area. Now, those who have attended and still attend university workshops and university classrooms, research groups and Italian university research centers clearly read these phrases as a slap, because 80 million euros in the face of a project are really a moral slap for the entire university school class. The thought goes immediately to the thousands of Italian researchers who, in order to see themselves approve their valuable research projects, must expatriate or sweat the famous seven shirts. We have simply called for a rethink, even in the face of fairly obvious criticism of the Italian Institute of Technology itself, which, with an annual contribution of EUR 100 million, we know does not have the same efficiency as our university departments. Very recently a study by the Politecnico di Bari was presented, comparing the efficiency of the Italian Institute of Technology with the Politecnico itself, with regard to funding even twice that of the IIT, considering also the fact that the Politecnico di Bari has to bear other expenses, ranging from normal teaching to all the maintenance and ordinary management of the associated structures. This point has been extremely critical for us. All this in the face of a really low scientific efficiency, because the scientific cost for this Institute is extremely high compared to many of our other research institutes and university departments. What we have asked, therefore, is something extremely simple, that is that in the projects that will involve the Expo area are involved in law Italian universities and Italian research centers, because that is where the cultural center of gravity of our country resides. So, primarily, we owe it to these bodies. Another important element of discussion, more territorial, is the specific article on the Jubilee. Jubilee means, first of all, a world appointment of a religious character, mainly confined to the capital, then to Rome and Vatican City. Alongside this, however, it is absolutely predictable that there is a flow of tourists, pilgrims and indirect devotees, that is initially directed towards the capital, but then diverted to other destinations. I pointed out, simply, that there are at least two destinations in Italy, certainly subordinate to the capital Rome but at first level. The first is Assisi, home of St. Francis of Assisi, the patron saint of Italy. The same current Pope took his name from St. Francis. Therefore, Assisi will certainly be invested by a very significant amount of tourism. Next we have the city of Cascia, which gave birth to Santa Rita, which we too, with great satisfaction but also a little'surprise, have discovered to be the most prayed holy woman in the world. This means that, in the Umbria Region, only for these two realities, there are about 4 million tourists per year. In this historical phase, with the extraordinary Jubilee, but also for contingent and international situations, there is therefore also a need for attention for these places, not only in terms of safety but also in terms of traffic. In fact, we know that people who move also have difficulties. So, in addition to tourists, we also have elderly people. This was the specific intervention for the decree under consideration. Then there was an agenda, which was accepted in the Commission, and I thank the Government for having received this attention. I note from the dossier that another agenda has also been presented on the same subject, with regard to a slightly different aspect. I would like to announce that I will ask for it to be signed if, in the light of the regulatory or institutional issues, we were to arrive at the voting stage. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u47	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u48	Mr President, with this brief speech I would like to highlight the serious problems involved not only in this measure, but in a system that exists, and not a small one, throughout Italy. In this decree-law, where we want to unite completely disparate materials, as has been pointed out with the censures of unconstitutionality, there are also measures concerning the reclamation of polluted sites. It is not understood how only for some hypotheses there is the necessity and urgency, forgetting perhaps that in all the Italian territory and also in the territory of Veneto unfortunately - and we stress unfortunately - there are sites characterized by a very great pollution for which urgent interventions of reclamation are necessary. There are also dramatic situations in some ways and unfortunately there are many, because industrialization and perhaps even a way of doing business in the 1970s, which tried to fly over the possible consequences of the use of certain substances and materials, have led to certain situations. In Vicenza I remember in particular a case of pollution of aquifers, the case of Tezze sul Brenta, where the former Galvanica, which then went bankrupt, left a site heavily polluted by hexavalent chromium. This has soaked the soil for at least 25 meters of depth and has caused, with rainwater, a percolation continues until going to contaminate the groundwater. There have also been sentences of condemnation, among other things with very slight penalties, against those who caused this disaster, but the disaster is not only counted in the number of deaths that unfortunately have counted over time, but in the consequences that continue to procrastinate. Faced with a situation like that of a failed company, the Municipality of Tezze sul Brenta was forced to cope with the emergency safety, providing a kind of hydraulic barrier to avoid percolation within the groundwater. To keep this hydraulic barrier alive, it takes at least EUR 600,000 a year just to try to prevent contamination from continuing. A decisive intervention is only possible with a reclamation project, which is and is very complex, because we are talking about really serious situations. For those who have had the opportunity to visit this factory, it horrifies what has been done and with what lack of civic sense. Let us try to regain this civic sense now, in this House, in the face of these problems. More than ten million euros are needed for this operational project. For now appropriations have also been provided by the Region, there have been from the Province, but it is necessary to supplement them. It is necessary and urgent. That is why we, as a Group of the North League, have proposed an agenda on this issue, precisely to urge everyone to ask themselves: do we want to make decree-laws in which we put everything inside? So why Bagnoli and not Tezze sul Brenta or another myriad of hypotheses? For this reason, we have proposed it. We hope that we will be able to vote on this agenda and that there will be no confidence in this measure as well: a system which we, as always, oppose and consider to be inconsistent, appropriate and dignified for this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u49	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u50	Mr President, I too would ask you to accept the request to be able to deliver the written text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u51	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u52	PADUA (PD). I would like to point out some aspects that are particularly dear to me and also to this Government, which mainly concern the social aspects. The social aspect of both public and infrastructure works, which will certainly have positive effects on our community, is in fact very much appreciated in this measure. Much of the article deals with social and employment issues and is based on what is going on in relation to the law of stability, which pays close attention to poverty and social exclusion. For the first time, we have discussed this in depth in order to ensure the implementation of an organic national plan. The aim is that the use of these resources can really provide concrete and useful tools for social and structural policies aimed at the less well-off. It seemed to me appropriate to point out here that the choices to combat social exclusion and poverty can be linked to this decree. For example, Article 12 provides for an increase in the National Civil Service Fund of EUR 100 million to increase the number of volunteers. If, therefore, a large part of the measure provides for an increase in territorial control for the sake of greater security, the objective of this provision is more suitable for a social reading. There are not only security-related needs, which are indispensable and indispensible at this time, because there is also a valuable opportunity to go beyond this emerging vision and broaden our views, as it is right that it should be, also with regard to our young people. The use of these resources makes it possible to meet the demands of a growing number of young people who ask to participate in national civil service projects. Civil service is a way of defending the Homeland, not only from a purely physical or territorial point of view, and it is closely related to the sharing of common values and founding our order. This opportunity, therefore, aimed at young people from eighteen to twenty-eight years old, which allows you to dedicate a year of your life in favour of a solidarity commitment towards the community and the common good, can be the starting point, the driving point, for concrete experiences in various areas, ranging from assistance to civil protection, from care and protection of the environment to cultural promotion. It is therefore an opportunity to build a new community, made of new relationships, of attention to the most fragile people, to put a stone and build that land of men, not only linked to contingent, small, localistic; an intervention to look from a wider spectrum with a look of hope at a time when the world needs so much hope to be close to those who are subject to greater fragility. Again, Article 14 of the decree provides for maintenance interventions on the assets of public housing, in order to ensure the immediate use of the damaged housing by the subjects in poor social situations and thus avoid phenomena of urban degradation and abusive employment. The regions had reported that the financial envelope was insufficient in relation to actual needs, and it was therefore decided to add additional resources. These funds are of immediate use and the planned building interventions will allow the recovery, in a short time, of about 1,500 residential housing, in addition to the 4,500 recoverable with the resources being distributed. I am beginning to conclude by quoting the construction of sports facilities in the urban outskirts. So much has been said, in this year, about suburbs, seems almost a fil rouge: the Holy Father speaks about it, our colleague, Senator Renzo Piano, all the experts. From there we begin to rebuild, from the outskirts. Sport is certainly an aggregate tool, of great growth and inclusive. I conclude my speech with a note that does not want to be polemic towards the Government, but of hope and reinforcement. I am pleased that the resources have been found for the territorial continuity of Sardinia, a very important and fundamental island in the growth of our country. But I also hope - I had tabled an amendment to this effect - that we can also recognize another major island, Sicily, where it is almost impossible to move, because the trains are still those of the National Unity (even if much is being done for the big cities) and the suburbs are practically unapproachable for the ordinary citizens. I have tabled an amendment to help ensure mobility for these citizens as well as for other fragile realities. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u54	Mr President, I would like to begin by denouncing a very serious fact which occurred during the Commission' s proceedings of this decree-law: the Commission 7a to which I belong did not issue an opinion, nor did it schedule it. Let me briefly summarize the facts. Mr President, this measure has been set by the Budget Commission in its report on Tuesday 1 December and the deadline for amendments to the Commission itself has been set at 7 p.m. on the same day. The next day, on Wednesday 2 December, at the Bureau of my Commission, I denounced this fact, complaining to President Marcucci, who knew nothing about it and committed himself to sending a formal letter to the presidency of the Senate to protest about what happened, which in my opinion is already very serious. But, Mr President, it is even more serious (and I believe that President Tonini should also speak on this matter) given that this decree-law contains some rules that directly affect the areas of competence of our Commission: there is the tax credit for cinema, on which we are discussing a draft law these days in the Commission; there is a part that concerns sports facilities for the suburbs; but, above all, Mr President, paragraph 2 of Article 5, nested and hidden in the paragraph of one of the many articles of this decree-law, there is a measure that qualifies, in my opinion, in an alarming and disturbing way, the policy of research that this Government is pursuing. In fact, in paragraph 2 of this article are previewed the famous 80 million euros that the Government destined to the Italian Institute of Technology for the realization of a pole of research and innovation in the Expo area in Milan. This measure, announced with the usual tweet style by our President-in-Office of the Council, goes over both his own Minister of Education, who I have not heard anything about it, and all the public universities and public research bodies that insist in the metropolitan area of Milan. Mr President, I should like to point out that the financing provided for in this text, the EUR 80 million, is almost equal to the sum that the stability law - which is currently being discussed in the House - is intended, in a cumulative manner, for the totality of the 70 Italian universities and the 12 public research bodies supervised by the Ministry of Education, University and Research for the famous extraordinary recruitment plan (1,000 plus 500); I say this in order to give you the idea of the size we are discussing, equal to what has been planned to be provided to all universities and all public research bodies. I would now like to clear the field, Mr President, of unnecessary controversy about scientific merits: I have nothing against IIT, which does good research, as and how many universities and public research bodies in Italy. The point, therefore, is not the scientific merit and it is not even the 80 million euros: for goodness sake, 80 million euros will come in a research and innovation hub. That is not the point, but another: what is the idea of the government's research policy and the government's research minister? From what I see, the idea of research policy is, in the first place, to strangle and sink universities and public research bodies, which over the last five years have been cut back for more than a billion euros, the little money there - of course we all want to be more - goes to a private-law foundation, created in 2003 by Tremonti, whose summits are exclusively political and which has enjoyed a stable public funding of about 100 million euros since its establishment to date; moreover, increased by 3 million euros with the same law of stability. Well, what is the idea of research policy? What is the role of universities and public research bodies that this Government has in mind to develop and make this country a knowledge-based society? From what I see, the result is completely wrong. Private law foundations are preferred, whose leaders are appointed in a political way, and the entire university world is stopped, drowning continually under the ax of cuts and contentments of spending. Not only that: universities and public bodies are also subject to the constraints of the rules of public administration, but this foundation is exempt from these constraints. I now turn to the initial part of my speech, Mr President. I believe that the 7th Senate Commission had the right to intervene on this very important aspect of research policy, but this has not been done. I therefore appeal to you, Mr President, to shed some light and clarity on what has happened in the course of this measure during the transition to the various standing committees. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u55	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u56	Mr President, when the question of confidence in this measure is raised by the Government, we will soon arrive at the forty-fourth question of trust. The constant demand for confidence on every measure of fact exonerates and deeply violates the fundamental principles of democracy, which are the debate and the confrontation, ending up transforming Parliament into a mere ratifyor of acts already decided by the government. If the data on the ratification of the international treaties are removed, the percentage of votes of confidence, in order to armor the legal texts, exceeds 70%. It is noteworthy that the question of trust was also raised on the electoral law, which is an anomaly of undoubted importance, never found anywhere in the world. Then there is the continuous recourse to the decree of urgency. To date, there are exactly 45 decree-laws presented by the Executive in less than two years, at a rate of two decree-laws per month. Article 77 of the Constitution and Law No 400 of 1988 clearly state that the decree-law is an act of primary and exceptional nature, that is assumed in situations of extraordinary necessity and urgency and that the content must be specific, homogeneous and corresponding to the title. 12:10 p.m. (Following CERONS). The measure we are examining completely violates these principles. I therefore believe that greater prudence and better attention to parliamentary prerogatives would be desirable and necessary, because when a government is in a free fall in consensus and clearly a minority in the country, it should have more respect and consideration for Parliament and oppositions. In addition, it must be noted that the Commission's regulations are being violated, that they meet while debates and votes are taking place in this House, the so-called kangarooing of the amendments, and the artifice of rewording the amending proposals in order to prevent them from being signed by a representative of the opposition. We're really in an awkward situation. Similarly, the explanation given by the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Tonini, to justify the urgency of this decree-law, which is to commit EUR 1 billion by the end of the year, is embarrassing. If this figure were to remain in the state's coffers, it would not be bad, since we are the third or fourth most indebted country in the world. If the Jubilee was ordained by Pope Bergoglio on 13 March 2015, how do you decide of urgency, nine months later, to intervene on the decorum and security of the city of Rome? Where have you been until today? Being also a long-standing administrator, I pose a further problem: usually first you find the resources and then you commit. So, the interventions on the decorum of the city of Rome have already been carried out, since should they be before the opening of the Holy Year? So, these resources are used to heal off-balance-sheet debts that have already been implemented? Or are these actions still to be carried out? In this case, however, the interventions for the decoration of Rome would take place in Jubilee closed. Or is this a pretext to cover the insurmountable budget holes of the City of Rome? Beyond the substance of the measure, Mr President, what I would like to stress is precisely this ever-increasing ambition of the Commission to become a legislator. Once again we must see that this Government is completely inadequate, devoted to propaganda, obsessed with consent, willing and inclined to violate the rules governing the democratic life of our country in order to carry out its designs. We must see an increasingly bullying and arrogant attitude: you can do anything. I don't know what happened to the guardians of the legality of this country, the defenders of the Constitution and the laws, but they suddenly disappeared. To conclude, the decree-law under consideration shows once again that the government thinks, decides and does, but thinks late, decides wrong and does the opposite of what the country needs. The results are in the eye of all: public debt that gallops towards unthinkable and unsustainable levels, non-existent growth, unemployment at tragic levels. Do us a favor before it's too late. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u57	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u58	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 185 of 2015, yet another measure whose urgency, when examining the text, escapes most, while the abuse of this instrument is clearly evident. As has already been pointed out in my fellow Members' speeches, the President of the Republic, who, as in other situations, was trying to ensure that this Government acted in respect of its roles, leaving Parliament with the right right to operate in the forms which it is responsible for. This is an abuse which Parliament has already suffered in allocating the measures to the relevant Commissions: in fact, even the time and methods of examination in the Budget Commission have been very rapid and not acceptable. The measure contains 18 articles confirming the unevenness of the measure. It deals, in fact, with matters which are unrelated to each other, in the face of the principles of simplification and legislative transparency, not to mention the requirements of necessity and urgency that are difficult to recognize, even if they are essential for a decree-law. It seems much more like a thousand-pronged measure, a maneuver after the bill of stability, whose examination is now underway in the House, but which here in the Senate as an opposition we wanted to carry out with collaboration and with a clear intention to arrive at the Assembly. As I said, it is an omnibus measure that undermines parliamentary prerogatives, a confirmation of the government's interference when all too often it alternates the decree of urgency and vote of confidence, or, as in this case, it uses both, because this will be the end of the measure under consideration. Going back to the text, since everything is clear about the method, there are no decisive project interventions. We are in the presence of disorganic measures that do not solve old problems, such as that of Bagnoli or the emergency waste in Campania, and so urgent that they have been going on for a decade now; moreover, through this measure we are only trying to buffer the problem with financial resources and not with planning, therefore with answers that lead to the closure of these old problems. I would also like to talk about the fact that suddenly, at the end of the year, we discover - excuse me for the term - resources that come from supposed savings and the haste to allocate them, as if there were only a part of the country that always suddenly reappears. So let us think of the workers who must be protected, but only the socially useful workers of Calabria, as if the others of this country, of the other Regions, did not have the same rights or the same difficulties. For them to be different yet it is not given to know. As I said, it is an omnibus measure that passes from the Jubilee of Mercy to arrive at public housing, civil service or Expo areas to be redeployed. Returning to the workers, the malt is still worth paying attention to the exodus fund, which has been taken away from the remainders to pour them into the Social Fund for Employment and Training, leaving the exodus without hope for the safeguards expected, workers unfortunately already deceived previously by the Fornero law that massacred them, and left out of work, without an economic future and now without the hope of returning to new safeguards. Then let's talk about Made in Italy support. Article 8 provides for a further financing of 10 million euros in 2015 for the promotion of Made in Italy instead of adopting, after what has been decided in the bill of stability, restrictive interventions that protect it in a definitive and constructive way, giving the companies that breath they need. In fact, the seriousness of the losses for our producers should be reviewed, dealing specifically with the problem, recognizing and protecting our excellences; let us think, for example, of agro-food, not to mention other products, of which there are unfortunately examples in this matter. From infrastructure to transport - I said - to the employment sector, in order to arrive at measures to retrain the urban outskirts. Everything and more. Many problems are addressed without being in depth, in a chaotic ensemble, when they would have deserved individual deepening and specific interventions, perhaps decisive, through measures shared also with the opposition; such interventions, through constructive work fruit of sharing and confrontation, could have given effective and definitive answers. It is expected to strengthen the regional railway service only for the Lazio region, with 47 million expenditures, as if there were no need in the rest of the country, there were no difficulties and there were no limits or discrepancies for rail traffic, which obviously is not at the top in most of the country. I think you should take a tour, perhaps in my Province that is entirely mountainous, to understand the inconveniences and daily delays that workers, students and commuters suffer every day, as true pilgrims, without having to go to Rome for the Jubilee, but simply going to do their duty. A colleague spoke before territorial continuity. Well, if we have to guarantee services for disadvantaged areas, I believe that at this point there are areas that will always be disadvantaged in comparison with others, which still do not see resources, and then probably not even have concrete answers. By this I certainly do not mean Sardinia, for which we share the intervention and we hope that there are also organic reasonings made there. Unfortunately, my Province has no metropolitan lines; perhaps, if we had them, you would have given us resources. I say it with irony, that it does not spoil at this moment, in which the territories are really dying. Another issue concerns the 50 million for the National Emergency Fund. It is a shared measure, but about which I remember, also in this case, that we need interventions for all that part of the country that has suffered disasters and emergencies, not least the Venetian areas (we think of Mira, Dolo and Pianiga) or Bellunese, with landslides in Cadore, Acquabona or San Vito di Cadore, where unfortunately there were also three victims. I am beginning to conclude with a final passage on Article 15, which concerns sports facilities in the urban outskirts. This is certainly an important proposal, the result of the desire to retrain peripheral urban areas as degraded urban areas; in fact, this simply enhances those areas that you have already highlighted in this article. Having adopted an agenda which was also intended to take action on sports facilities in support of schools, in the measure before it in the Commission, now, with an amendment which was still before the Budget Commission, this commitment made a week ago has been rejected directly. Mr President, this certainly does not remove economic and social imbalances or, if they are removed, this only happens for some suburbs, forgetting the other disadvantaged areas and forgetting the great imbalance that suffers those great realities that live in morphologically complicated, expensive and onerous areas for everyday life. Instead, we finance a new fund, "Sports and suburbs," which is essentially linked to national competitive sports - the term "competitive" makes it the idea - and only apparently so we go in the direction of disadvantaged areas. In short, it is clear the use of resources with disorganic interventions, which do not find to a large extent our sharing, if not for a few measures contained in it. We condemn for our part the choice of trust - the 42nd, as someone has already emphasized - that unfortunately is expected for the umpteenth time, to rub off the parliamentary work, and that will certainly be confirmed shortly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u59	Mr President, this draft law in the Chamber contains a wide and copious review of actions that are necessarily heterogeneous, but all linked to the common logic of necessity and urgency, for the destination and for the use of the sums available for the 2015 budget, aimed at the realization of interventions of environmental reclamation, the valorization of disused areas, infrastructure and urban regeneration, of garrison and safety for the extraordinary Jubilee event. The measure also deals with the promotion of Made in Italy, sport and cinema and the financing of the National Civil Service Fund, to which my colleague Mrs Padua referred, and the Social Fund for Employment and Training. I would say, therefore, that this is a measure of doing things and not of chatter. I would like to focus in particular on the content of article 5 of the decree-law, which intends to collect with determination and pride the winning legacy, and not the hangover, as someone said earlier, of Expo Milano 2015, in order to concretely enhance its fruits after having demonstrated that Italy can always be up to the international commitments it assumes, as in the case of the International Exhibition. It is essential that the material and intangible legacy of Expo finds an ambitious and new challenge that comes to life precisely with this provision. It is necessary to enhance an extraordinary site that has welcomed the world and that the world has known with more than 20 million visitors, through the realization of a great cultural bet for the future of the new generations that spreads the values of Expo. This is the meaning of the measure under consideration: to create a research and development centre which aims to become a global reference centre for the study of new technologies applied to improving the quality of life. Culture, innovation, environmental and artistic heritage protection, food education and the well-being and care of degenerative diseases will have a place of excellence where the best researchers will exchange their knowledge and research. The first contribution amounted to 150 million euros: 50 million for the activities of valorization of the areas of Expo, 80 million attributed to the most used Italian Institute of Technology for the realization of a scientific research project, 20 million as a contribution of the State to the competition of the security charges of the Expo site. It is clearly written in the provision that, with reference to the research carried out by the Italian Institute of Technology, it is necessary to hear the local authorities and the main scientific institutions concerned. I repeat: it is written and I am amply remembering it. I wanted to mention a few numbers because all too often in the past there have been wonderful ideas on paper, but not supported by adequate financial resources. I am beginning to conclude, given the limited time available. The discontinuity that the measure marks with respect to the past is total. As far as the agri-food sector is concerned, it is important to finance the fight against the Italian sounding phenomenon. In 2012 the Censis quantified the damages deriving from counterfeits and imitations: the loss of an added value is estimated at 5.5 billion euros and 110,000 full-time jobs not activated because of the market of counterfeit products; the value of the missed collections and direct, indirect and derived taxes would be estimated at 4.6 billion euros. This data should also be supplemented by non-directly economic damage. The fight against counterfeiting, and the investments to support it, is truly significant and it is good that the Government considers it, as done in the draft law under consideration, a priority.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u60	I greet the students of the Institute of Higher Education in Otranto, in the province of Lecce, who are following the work of the Assembly, at this time engaged in the general discussion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Milo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start with a comment. The text before us requires a great deal of understanding with regard not only to the general system but also to the alleged goodness of intent or the spirit of initiative from which it should arise. I will try to illustrate some of the critical issues that we have found, apart from the awareness that many others are those raised by this decree-law and that they will remain unresolved. First of all, I would like to start by giving a preliminary consideration to the title of the Decree-Law on urgent measures for action in the territory of the Community, on which I would like to give at least the attention of this House some concerns about the inappropriate, and even grotesque, contribution of urgency to rules which are urgently needed. I am referring, for example, to the shameful waste of EUR 10 million provided for in Article 8 on Made in Italy but also to Article 14, which allocates EUR 25 million for the recovery of buildings for public housing where the theme of the house should be a programmatic figure for a central-left government and not an extemporaneous emergency, and still to the funds of absolutely not extraordinary order provided for in Articles 12 and 13 for civil service and employment and training respectively. It is clear that, because of their own contradictory nature, they are all more concerned about the actual nature of the urgency, at least because when it came to discussing many other legitimate priorities, such as a development plan for the Mezzogiorno, at the time of the recent stability, we seem to recall that the necessary resources had been declared not as easily available. Now that the law of stability is being discussed in the House, we allow ourselves to go back to insist on this point, all the more in the light of the fact that, very clearly, the real legislative criterion of this majority is not the content but the paternity of the signature, because otherwise we would not explain the snatch of initiatives of which we have certainly been victims since amendment 7.39 is approved with which the Government incorporates, in part, our proposals on the Mezzogiorno. Will our recriminations on the subject be worth it? Welcome, if so, if only in the sole interest of the Mezzogiorno of our country. However, ladies and gentlemen, here too we are witnessing a success in the middle of this government, which every time throws the rock and promptly pulls back its arm. The tax credit for investment in the South, for example, could, quite clearly, be adjusted upwards in the incentive, especially for small enterprises in order to promote the Mezzogiorno and make it possible to start a series of new initiatives in favour of young people. The approach was ours, so the numbers - alas - for this Government are down. We would have appreciated that the theft of ideas was at least pedissequo. As for the other proposal of ours, that of tax decontribution on recruitment in the southern regions, at the present time the Government makes known, again in the law of stability to the House, that in an attempt to find the appropriate funds, it refers to a verification of the amounts identifiable under the Development and Cohesion Fund, so it refers us back to the spring. Now, while it is unacceptable that the measures for the South should be reduced to a panem et circenses, we know that it is not a question of having concrete pockets of resources, but of political will to identify them and use them in some ways rather than in others, and that is all the more true for the Fund to which the fate of the measures for the Mezzogiorno is referred. Well, those reforms for the South that are so much needed and which we have repeatedly called for the financial commitment of this Government to be addressed could obviously have been allocated a large part of the funds used precisely for the actions of dubious urgency that we are discussing today in this decree. We, however, and I say this to the Government, will not lower our guard on the Mezzogiorno. Beyond the content and with regard to the priorities of this Government, they may not coincide with our own but we will certainly continue to monitor and fight for our two proposals, the rise of tax credit thresholds and the implementation of tax decontribution for the South, to finally see concrete implementation. However, let us say that it is really sorry to see a majority who praise and cheat for the few things scattered, and often self-referential, obtained here and there while indoring the pill of the many things instead necessary that they cannot do. At least one merit of this majority, however, we must recognize it: that of consistency and constancy in repeating procedural flaws and flaws. In fact, not that extending the evaluation to the entire decree this seems to offer some margin of improvement. If there is a thread linking the entire package of articles of the provision, it is undoubtedly the absence of a thread. It is a pastime of interventions with a heterogeneous character that, by paradox, in view of the observance of the Constitutional Court, ends up rendering the decree-law illegitimate. Therefore, if the assessment of incompatibility between orders of priorities and interventions made together with approximation is not sufficient, it should be considered that the measure that this majority is asking us to vote today is contrary to Article 77 of the Constitution. In this regard, I would like to point out that not long ago, during the legal debate on the so-called rescue measure in Rome, the same de facto circumstance led to the release by the Presidency of this House of 18 articles of the measure then under consideration here in the Senate, as they did not respond to the principle of congruence. Therefore, we are wondering why, given the same circumstance, the Presidency of this House does not apply the same considerations as would make this decree-law equally unacceptable. We will keep our legitimate doubts. In the meantime, I am sorry that the Government has not at least taken into account the amendment that we tabled which allowed us to suggest - and we are going to do so again here - an even more comprehensive proposal to amend the title of this decree-law. You will agree, in fact, that in order to make fully the incomprehensible combination of various and possible norms and measures, rather than urgent measures for interventions on the territory, it would be without a shadow of doubt more correct to talk about environmental reclamation measures, for national emergencies, for the enhancement of the Expo area, interventions for the Jubilee, for the protection of the Made in Italy, for the airports, for the territorial continuity, for the metropolitan lines, for the national civil service, for the employment and training, for interventions of public housing, for the construction of sports facilities in the urban suburbs, for the cinema and for the financing to the Municipality of Reggio Calabria. Mr President, we are sorry if we have also forgotten the additional ideas offered by the rapporteur's amendments. In this respect, a margin note deserves at least amendment 13,1000, which provides for the allocation of 50 million for the stabilisation of the social useful work (LSU) of the Calabria Region. Without prejudice to the good intentions, we do not understand by what criterion we choose to support the category of workers engaged in socially useful jobs resident in Calabria alone and not those of the other Regions. I don't think there are any "A" and "B" workers. Why not consider an intervention which can benefit the entire national territory, given that policies to support employment and incentives not to abandon the regions, especially in the Mezzogiorno, are urgently needed? I would like to take a moment to comment on the general problems of this measure because many other issues are left open, starting with the whole of the funds identified to cover the planned interventions, which would have been supposed to offset part of the public debt, since they were recovered from unused resources and given the current time of the year. The logic then requires us to believe that a good administrator would certainly have opted to set aside the resources, if anything to the leveling of that rock of about 2,200 billion, which is our public debt, instead of financing measures of doubtful urgency. Apart from the above considerations, I will try to draw a brief overview, at least entering into the merit of those most evident inconsistencies that, by installation and content, make this measure a real decree-tip of this Government. I would start from the premise that that of Naples-Bagnoli-Coroglio had already been identified in 2000 as an area of national interest for environmental rehabilitation interventions. The result is that, to date, still an area of 120 hectares, out of 180 total, is seized by the Public Prosecutor's Office of Naples for the lack of realization of the reclamation interventions and other. In relation to this yet another urban regeneration programme, we would therefore find it appropriate to have a clarification from the Government on at least two important issues. Firstly, instead of removing the filling, the procedure of which would be costly in terms of both economic and technical difficulties, one could consider securing the site hosting this open-air ecological bomb. Secondly, the recovery plan does not include "bonification at sea." Ultimately, no planned or synergistic intervention appears in this measure, which appears very likely to be ad hoc in order to realize the edicts of the coming to Naples of President Renzi before last summer. This Parliament is entitled to greater transparency, particularly as regards an estimate of the costs of implementing the programme and the effective use of the financial resources concerned. At least to avoid, ladies and gentlemen, in some time, hearing us say that the bell towers and, more generally, the southern ones waste public money without restraint, where instead the irrational and confusing management of resources is upstream, and therefore comes from the government. On the other hand, the intervention on waste in Campania would claim to solve this age-old problem. But the €70 million planned for the year 2015 and the €80 million for 2016 are, from my point of view, a small resource for a real reclamation of the sites occupied by the so-called ecoballs. Therefore, although this is the only intervention that would have benefited from a decree of urgency from a certain point of view, it is the management of waste disposal itself that sins in planning. In fact, my Group has repeatedly stressed the serious superficiality of dealing with this problem in the Commission. A mistake on all we tried to highlight in our amending activity: part of this extraordinary fund was also to avoid further damage to the state treasury and again to censor all those landfills authorized during the emergency period in all municipalities of the Campania Region. Article 3 intervenes with a financing of 10 million, drawn from a fund of 40 million, with discretion of the Government. And these 10 million should go to heal as reimbursement the debts of the public administration of a loose municipality for camorristic infiltration. Well, I would like to remind this majority that it is not the first time that mistakes of inequality have been made in this sense: this was the case in 2008 with the Berlusconi government, when half a billion capital was destined for Rome, where the lid has just been lifted on the vast and complex tentacle of mafia infiltrations, evidently before everyone's eyes. And the problem is always there, in Rome, despite having further wasted public money. Another case of amnesia by the Government, which provides for the allocation of a large share intended exclusively for the reconstruction of the flooded territories of the Region of Sardinia. A measure that seems disproportionate even if incongruous to the extent of as many calamitous events that have affected, for example, the Veneto, Campania, Puglia and Liguria regions, and for which we ask that an appropriate chapter of expenditure be prepared. In view of the fact that this intervention is reflected in the provision of funding to the National Emergency Fund, it is not clear then where the inaccuracies lie: whether in the Government, as already happened in the Commission, that the coverage is identified in funds already set aside, or in those who have subscribed the related coverage from the National Emergency Fund. If so, then it is not given to know why it has not adequately provided for all the other emergent interventions that are in place on the date of entry into force of this decree-law. Allow me to make a reference to the Expo, President: to date, between State, Lombardy Region, City of Milan, Province of Milan and Chamber of Commerce of Milan, we have financed about 1,300 million euros, a highly praiseworthy activity, as far as we are concerned, but what the decree-law leaves us stucco: 50 million euros allocated for not well known which interventions of valorization or reuse of the disused areas, to which are added additional 80 million euros destined to the Italian Institute of Technology for a project of study and research, that - it is read in the provision - would represent a first contribution. At this point, we would demand to know the amount of future contributions after the first and, above all, what they would consist of, on the understanding that it raises serious doubts, once again, the choice to proceed with a decree of urgency, all the more with regard to an event by its own temporary nature such as the Expo. Not to mention, Madam President, the annexation of some areas of the Expo: we do not know which areas this intervention should be carried out on, because the decree simply says "also using part of the areas in use at Expo." I would also like to speak about a moment of territorial continuity (Article 10). Where to start? For example, from the obvious inappropriateness that has motivated the decision to limit an initiative of efficiency of the system of transports and connections to alone Sardinia, waited that there is another great Region-island in our Country, Sicily, whose equal attention in the development of solutions of territorial continuity would certainly be useful and important. Therefore, the usual inconsistency of the infrastructural implementation projects advanced by this Government, is accompanied by the complete absence of a large-scale design planning, which is to cover the entire economy of the territories of the Mezzogiorno and not just some of them. I will dwell further on this which, among the articles of the decree, is undoubtedly the one that most lends itself to highlighting the confusional inadequacy of the interventions put in place by the government and its majority. In this sense, it is certainly an emblematic amendment 10,1000, which the rapporteur has sent to the measure, on which you will allow me to have a necessary digression. With it, it is expected the extension for the years 2015 and 2016 of the current contract of service of the company Trenitalia. I mean, in short, that both the Antitrust and the DAC (with Resolution No. 8 of 6 March 2013) have practically put a ban on this procedure, so that the national transport system is open to the market and ends the current monopoly. With the rapporteur's amendment 10,1000, we provide Trenitalia with the same amount of contracts as in previous years, when in its own report this same company states that there has been a decrease in demand for service. I do not understand why, faced with a decrease in demand for service, we recognize the same contractual amount. I begin to conclude, Mr President, and yet I want to do so not before I apologise: excuse us if we sin for insufficient capacity to flatten ourselves on approximate and rapid logics, for not wanting to adapt or justify an emerging modus operandi that betrays the inability to develop a planning that is instead really strategic and systemic, and denotes a total lack of programmaticity and the lack of a far-sighted vision. Excuse us again, but it can be said that we are suffering from an evil, which unites me and my group's colleagues, a benign professional deformation that requires us to always look with one eye... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you should finish, because you've already gone over 20 minutes. MILO (CoR). I'm finishing. I was saying, it is a benign professional deformation that requires us to always look with one eye at those norms that affect the territories, because it is precisely in the territories that we believe the central mechanism of the whole mechanism of this political system is nested. For this reason, we apologise, Mr President, for those many, too many excuses that this Government should instead owe to all Italians. [[Applause from the CoR Group and the Council Senator.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u63	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we must stress and denounce the continued use of urgent and extraordinary measures. I am referring to the first articles concerning this decree-law, which contain measures which serve to patch up, here and there, situations and subjects of high general interest, in place of policies of forecasting and prevention which would prevent, from principle, such events. Among other things, these interventions are very often the result of convictions imposed by the European Union, only after which there is a sudden awareness. Not to mention the tight deadlines for examining such important and varied measures. I am also concerned about this new injection of money for an event that has already cost us so much in economic and social terms: I am referring to the post-Expo financing plan: 150 million euros that add to the purchase figures of those land where the event arose, bought at ten times their market price. Since it has tried to sell them and the auction has gone desert, now we find ourselves refinanceing with public money, money of the citizens of this country, an event that has benefited only the multinationals, that instead of feeding the Planet they have not spent half a minute, for example, on the theme of hybrid seeds and similar practices that hunger four fifths of this planet. This is an event that has only been a showcase of representation of a resource management approach that culminates in the creation of the TTIP of European matrix; an event that has benefited mafias and various speculators (just think of the myriad arrests for rigged contracts and bribes); an event that even in the forecast of post financing has never thought of a relocation for workers engaged in the set-up and management and, indeed, will use funds that will also be taken from the safeguard fund for the benefit of exodus. Money spent on new projects when the structural situation of our territory (as evidenced by the extraordinary interventions present in this decree-law) is at the loss, especially in reference to unfinished works. The importance of some infrastructure works for the security of the territory is not taken into account. I am referring, for example, as I have already done on several occasions, to the project of the Padua-Venice waterway: a channel for hydraulic safety between these territories and an additional eighty opportunities from a commercial point of view. Suffice it to say that the 2010 flood alone has caused damage for more than 500 million euros and the cost for the completion of the project is estimated at around 600 million euros. But as usual we prefer to support projects from electoral ads and then intervene only after disaster has been accomplished. As far as the subject of Made in Italy is concerned, I find the allocation of funds for the support of trade fairs and advertising campaigns to be reductive; all the more so because it is not clear from the text what kind of fairs we are referring to and how these funds will be divided and according to what criteria. I find it absurd that every time we have to predict means of support that do not bring medium and long-term benefits in the absence of a specific plan: only one-off solutions. There is a need for a project that leads to the re-evaluation of social agriculture; a concrete support to enhance the short supply chain; a plan that re-launches the Italian craftsmanship and that the whole has as its central point not the free market and the competitiveness end in itself, but a social use of resources. Many of the titles of these articles, at first sight, may appear perfect and exhaustive. Let us think of the urgent measures to encourage the construction of sports facilities in the urban outskirts. It is true that this type of retraining is needed. But it is also true that giving the CONI the implementation plan for the strengthening of sports activities in disadvantaged and peripheral areas is not adequate for the purpose. It is clear that, on the basis of the division of the areas of competence and, above all, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, the action plans would fall to the regions and municipalities and, in general, to those bodies with a more direct contact with the citizen. In addition, in my opinion, alongside a plan for the construction of sports facilities, a plan for the management of sports facilities should be accompanied by a plan based on the concept of user rates within everyone's reach, i.e. a popular sport. I can only conclude by pointing out my regret at the tight timetable for the study and analysis of this draft law, and especially that concerning the tabling of amendments to it. It is essential, today as today, to carry out more structured interventions, with more information on the projects to be carried out. Slogans aren't enough anymore. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u65	Mr President, I appreciate all the Members who have spoken, who have had the courage to enter into the substance of this measure, because the question is: do we still need to get into the substance of the measures? We have a continuous, systematic debauchery of Parliament from its primary role, that of being a legislative body. We have a decree-law and government decree-laws continue to arrive. Are there constitutional requirements? Preliminary questions have been rejected, but we must ask ourselves: isn't it that the Government really and instrumentally waits for the requirements to be fulfilled and then arrive with its own decrees-laws? He expects things to expire to say that there is a need to intervene by decree. Provided that these requirements were (and do not exist), it still remains another constitutional bond, that of homogeneity by subject. I will now give you a list and then we can ask ourselves what combines all these commercials, all these interventions, how does this pulverization of interventions reconcile with the requirement of homogeneity in matter. In the first articles we talk about the waste of Campania (it is necessary to compensate the Region for not being able to manage its function and its competence), and if I think of the waste I refer to the environmental matter. Then we talk about areas of the Expo (and in this case we are probably in the context of the commercial recovery of areas with other destinations), of expenses for the Jubilee (an inconceivable matter, namely security for the city of Rome and assistance to a tourist flow that must arrive and that will arrive quite massively), of made in Italy (which we certainly place in the field of economy and competitiveness, but what will it have to do with the other subjects?), of interventions for the metropolitan lines (which are certainly the subject of transport), of residential construction (the same word says) and, finally, of sports facilities (it will be an extraordinary intervention in the field of sport) and of support for cinema (intervention that concerns culture, but what does it have to do with it?). How can a government be allowed to act disorderly on the wider issues? If we do not say anything, Parliament will no longer do anything. President of the Senate, President of the House, what do you expect to raise a conflict of interest? Who has to make the laws in this country, Renzi and the government, period? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Then they come here with confidence and we don't even discuss it, because we just have to say yes or no to trust. Colleagues, what marginal role are we cutting ourselves into? What role are we entering into? Once came an idea that seemed to leap (but if we propose it to Renzi maybe makes it his own), a parliamentarians stood up and said: but what is the point of talking about so many things, with longness? Wouldn't it be better to give each Parent Company some sort of multiple vote? There are ten group leaders who say what they think about one measure or another and who say they are for or against; a Parent represents for example 100 parliamentarians, the other 80, another 20 or 25, they form majorities in a side table, they come here and the game is done. It is a good simplification: it could be sold as an innovation of the parliamentary system. We are convinced that distributing money on the territory is also a positive thing, all right, but colleagues "older barracks" know that there has always been the so-called "tipping law," brutally defined as "trademark law." Gentlemen, today the "Tip Law," the "Tip Law" makes it exclusively and unilaterally the Government. Once at least there was democracy: the various groups, the representatives of the various parliamentarians, said that there were some extraordinary interventions on the territory, for the North, the Centre and the South, and they were made up of interests, without wanting to brutalize them, but with a democratic relapse. This is no longer the case: the government decides, puts confidence in it, and Parliament must say 'yes' to it. We're not playing this role. I would like to read a part of the text that we will approve, on the contrary, that you will approve, because the League will not approve it. In relation to the Expo areas, which will become ex Expo areas, it is said that by decree - clearly the possibility of using the law no longer exists - 80 million euros will be given to the Italian Institute of Technology (ITI), to carry out a scientific project, which will predict the use of these areas. According to Article 5 of the text under consideration, the executive project drawn up by the Italian Institute of Technology is approved by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. The President-in-Office of the Council, therefore, already has the money available, has already found out who will entrust the project to him and he himself will entrust it to him. According to the following paragraph, of Article 5 of the measure under consideration, the initiatives aimed at the valorization of the areas are defined by a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. Colleagues, is there still democracy? Certainly not here anymore, at this point. We also want to say that we are witnessing continuous bluffing. This is the bluff government. Previously he puts taxes on the house, when the center-right governments had taken them off; this year he says he will remove such taxes and he will clearly make a good impression by turning back. Last year it increased VAT on certain products, such as pellets for heating; this year it announces that it wants to return to the previous VAT, then it realizes that it doesn't have the money and, after the announcement, it doesn't do it anymore. Comedy goes on! Renzi announces that the country is finally moving and that we will have a growth of 0.6% of gross domestic product. The authority experts, who have to do balance of payments calculations, have calculated that the positive effect of the extremely low price that has characterized the oil market for a year and a half, allow us a point and a half of gross domestic product of savings. If we say that we have grown by 0.6%, thanks to this breath equal to one and a half points of GDP, Renzi should say that if we had not had the price of oil at these levels we would have gotten even worse by 0.9%. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is the truth: the rest is a bluff and the propaganda that this government does remains. If there was some movement on production, this was due to the appreciation of the dollar, or the depreciation of the euro, which meant that the export sectors had a minimum of oxygen. This was the restart. So is it the government's merit? If we pay less spread on debt securities and we could save almost EUR 30 billion a year on the 80 that cost the debt, this is due to the fact that the European Central Bank provides a frightening liquidity of EUR 60 billion per month, buying securities, calming down and keeping very low speculation on the securities of the countries most in difficulty. Thanks to all this, the country is slowly recovering, but do we want to tell the truth or do we want to believe the government's fandonies all the time? Astrologers would say that there is an astral conjunction not only favorable but among the most outstanding in our history. These are our fortunes and not what the government is doing. We say that it is not Renzi's comedies that will help this country, because only the truth in the end pays and the sooner we pull the plug on this government and the better for our country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u66	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u67	Mr President, I would like to speak on one point. The measure, in fact, has a quite wide variety of interventions; however, since a small debate has developed on this point, I would like to speak on the subject of research and in particular on the area where the Expo took place, because I have heard things that do not correspond to the truth. It is true that the Italian Institute of Technology in Genoa starts a journey, but it is coordinated by the scientific director of the Italian Institute of Technology and sees the participation by the rectors of the Politecnico di Milano, the University of Milan and the University of Milan-Bicocca and this guiding committee has the task of analyzing synergies, organizing collaborations and developing all the joint initiatives necessary for the definitive drafting of the Human Technopole project. In addition, the executive plan of this Human Technopole, with its logistic and infrastructural plan, will be subjected to the evaluation of independent international advisors and there is also a date: i.e. it will have to be completed and presented by 25 February 2016. As this is an extraordinary development plan for our country and, in my opinion, for the whole of Europe, I would be careful to get rid of this intervention by talking of 80 million in the hands of the President of the Council, because if that were the case no one could agree and I for first; however, once and for all that precious areas are handed over not to speculations of various kinds, but to the growth of research in the technological and human field, I think we could also talk about it with greater respect. Everyone remains of their own opinion, but I would also like to stress that it makes no sense to oppose university funding for research development. We would make a huge mistake if we considered that all the possible funding must go to the university penalising the research centres and vice versa; we need to put them in synergy as this project does, to multiply the resources, to start a relationship between public and private, to safeguard independent research but to strengthen the transnational one, because only then will this country be able to seriously get out of the crisis using ideas, resources and brains, and not keeping them within the framework of a bureaucracy of operating plans. I think we need to make a big leap forward and the use of the Expo area in this direction is extraordinary. Lombardy, together with the rest of Italy and I also believe in Europe, will finally be able to launch itself into an extraordinary national role that is to work for men and women, for their progress and for their health. Precisely for this reason I think that, beyond what is written in that article, the project is of extraordinary importance and must be supported to the full, today and also tomorrow. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u68	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u69	Mr President, as a group, we have always expected and expect the government to bring us structural reforms, which change the state, not commercial measures and with great criticality, both in terms of content and the method followed by the government. President Tonini, who wanted to defend an indefensible decree-law, spoke earlier - and I regret not to share this - precisely because the rules contained in it conflict with the similar content of the law of stability. This last measure is still suspended, pending the vote of the House of Deputies; then next week it will come back to us. For the rest, it is an omnibus measure, which uses the spending review and the cuts to the various Ministries, for an amount of 483,8 million euros (equal to more than half of the total expenses), not to obtain resources available for the reduction of the tax burden or the implementation of the reforms that we ask this Government, but to feed new expenses. So you don't go anywhere. The shot can not be taken and have with the brake pulled; with the brake pulled it merges the engine and merges the same brakes. This is a government that must release itself from the pulled brake of its internal left, which continues to make it do alms in rain, rather than implement real structural reforms. My Group reserves a more comprehensive assessment, but I say that we cannot vote on this measure right now, precisely because it is not a reform decree-law, but only a begging that we give to the territory and that it will not bring great benefits. In participating in the general discussion we want to make a contribution by focusing on a single subject, the importance of which is constantly neglected by the Government and which should instead be subject to structural reform. I am referring in particular to the protection of Made in Italy, an issue dealt with both in the law of stability, with the former Article 23, and in the decree in our examination, with Article 8. Well, the Government is theoretical of only passive protection of the Italian brand and brand. This explains why only a few small amounts are needed to finance promotional campaigns, while very little is done to ensure Italy from the systematic counterfeiting of its products, an objective that requires many other instruments. Allow me only - and I am addressing the representative of the Government - to give some information on the damage these fraudulent practices do to our economy. The phenomenon has an international scope, but, as far as Italy is concerned, counterfeiting annually subtracts 18 billion euros of production from the national economic system, 6 billion euros of value added and 5 billion euros of revenue. But the damage becomes much more important if you take into consideration the counterfeiting of Made in Italy or, more properly, of 'Italian sounding, whose value stands at around 120 billion. But the government, if there is, beats him a blow? This is what Italians want: to prevent these 120 billion (which is the value that is attested) from transiting abroad on a foreign basis and nothing remains in Italy. That of fake must be considered a parallel economic sector, a real competitor, with which companies have to confront and against which they must protect their market share, which is the prerogative of bad and criminal societies, which earn great profits. To their increasing diffusion contribute the contradictions of a logistic chain that, in order to make turnover, favors the positioning of the counterfeit products in the great places of sale (near the supermarkets, in the online points of sale, etc.), disturbing the consumer with products sometimes harmful to the salute itself. Dear colleagues, Mr. Representative of the Government, this business is illegal and cannot be fought only with the Finance Guard, which more than once closes an eye, if not both (even at times, the financiers buy products for their wives), but it is necessary to put the consumer in the possibility to control the quality of the product he wants to buy, thus providing him with appropriate technology to verify in person whether or not the product he buys meets his legitimate expectations. In this regard, there are European patents which can guarantee, without any possibility of further counterfeiting, the achievement of this result; what is missing for this objective to be achieved is only the political will. The Ministry of Economic Development has often entrenched itself behind European bans, but these constraints, which also exist because of the reluctance of the bloc of the countries that belong to Germany (it is always Merkel who gives the cards), can be easily overcome by providing for the voluntaryness and not the obligatory use of the related technologies. What has so far been lacking from the State has been the indication of a logo (call it as you like, Leopolda, Leopoldina or Leopold) that characterizes the production offered by Made in Italy. Individual companies could choose this logo without having to place it on the label of their products, assuming the burden of proper certification. In this way, at an additional cost almost non-existent would correspond a strong increase in revenues today deducted from counterfeit production, equal to 120 billion euros. In the course of the debate on the draft Stability Act, my Group had tabled several amendments on this subject, which a deaf and blind government did not want to take into account. These were amending proposals which, at zero cost, would have allowed us - yes - to return to a growth of our economy equal to that recorded in the eighties, when - I always say this - there were governments that really did reform (I refer in particular to the Craxian one). Mr President, allow me to open a parenthesis. In a municipality of the great Lombardy, the mayor of Lissone (or so) wants to remove the title of a square in Craxi; he does not know what to do in life and thinks about these things and nothing more. This is an expression of smallness. The mother of the fools is always pregnant and I think in this case she gave birth to an entire city council. We need to return to guarantee our production in the fields of luxury, furniture, ceramics, agro-food, etc., in order to prevent our products from being put out of the market because of the fraudulent practices of international competition. Otherwise, much of those efforts would prove useless. For this reason, we need a government that promotes structural reforms in this area too, which is very important. My Group has also tried to provide you with its experience to promote growth. We hope that we will return to thinking about growth, to relaunching the South and that, turning all our sleeves, we will return to make the country grow again with that GDP that was 4, 5 or 6 percent in good times, when there were statesmen who had courage and put on the corner their internal opposition for the good of the country. We ask this Government to put its internal opposition at the corner, which prevents it from making structural reforms, and to bring us back to growth, not in the form of hypophysial dwarfism (i.e. growing, but remaining dwarfs), but perhaps administering the somatotropic hormone, which can actually raise the stature of Italy from the economic point of view, relaunching it as when it was the fifth economic power. Now we just have to be six or seven. [[Applause from Senator Serafini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u70	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u71	Mr President, I consider the time but not only the time, also the time and the fact that we are facing, they tell us, a sort of institutional jam. We must issue many decree-laws by the end of the year and we must elect the constitutional judges that we cannot elect; certainly, for Parliament's responsibility, because it always pays Parliament (as if we were making plenary assemblies or organizing a draw to bring out a name to be proposed to the attention of all colleagues). On the other hand, I think that failure, if it is a failure, is not a failure of Parliament, but of the secretariats of the parties and, in the case of the Group Presidents, which do not agree with the proposals to be made to the rest of the House to elect the constitutional judges. Having said that, I would very briefly like to make a note. The one that we examine is certainly a decree-law that contains things that serve: they serve the socially useful workers of Calabria as well as the areas affected by natural disasters, serve Sardinia from the point of view of territorial continuity, as they also serve the Campania region and the citizens of Bagnoli to see if it is finally possible to clean up an area ecologically affected and environmentally compromised. The measure we are examining, however, has in itself a limit, a defect that is very serious and that is systematic in the measures that we are going to examine at this stage and in these months, and I say also in these years because it is not only the responsibility of this Government, it is a habit that has now become a custom for which we go ahead with buffer decrees, with a "infirmistic" system of public finance (a patch here and a patch there), a nursing system of the country's social and economic system (a patch here and a patch there), without solving the real problems, which let themselves be incantilized, and unfortunately without introducing more suitable working methods to solve in a structural way the oldest questions. This decree-law is inside a more comprehensive maneuver of public finance because these days we are also discussing the law of stability, the House is doing it now, we have done it first and then the law will come back here and of course the discussion will be very restricted because we already know that we will go towards a vote of confidence. I believe that the law of stability must not be adversely represented by what it contains but must be criticized for what is lacking, for example an organic policy on the revival of productive activity and the economic and social system of the Mezzogiorno. Yesterday there were two pages in a well-known economic newspaper that narrated the disaster of the Mezzogiorno of Italy and the islands, told the significant difference in performance from the economy of the Centre-North to the southern one and told of a difficulty that is chronicized, derives from choices always wrong and much but much suffered in almost genuflex way of the ruling class of the Mezzogiorno of Italy. This is still happening today. We have, therefore, this fact which is confirmed also in the decree-law under consideration. It's a patch system: there's a wound and I put a patch on it; there's another one and I'll put another patch on it. Eventually, one should be full of patches and, since the patches are not enough, they remain exposed wounds. Therefore, the problem of the socially useful workers of Calabria is solved and the problem of Sardinia or Puglia or Campania is not solved. Efforts are being made to contribute to a structural difficulty in the linking system between Sardinia and the continent with EUR 30 million intended to support territorial continuity; but then, in the same rule, there is a reference to the Community rules that inges the aid system and make virtually impossible the expenditure of EUR 30 million for the purposes of territorial continuity. The problem is not only to give 30 million: the problem is to obtain recognition of the island state of Sardinia, to treat it as the so-called outermost regions of other States are normally treated, because it is through flexibility of the aid system that we can intervene in transport and, above all, air transport. In this way, during the Christmas period, the student of Erasmus or the temporary worker who leaves Sardinia or the military who serves at a place distant from home may on 22, 23 or 24 December or 30 or 31 December return home to spend at least one of the holidays in his family. And I am saying that beyond our opinion on this, because it is not worth insisting on. Imagine if I don't agree that we have to intervene on the reclamation of Bagnoli. I absolutely agree that this site is being reclaimed and recovered to a socially useful productive activity. Perhaps the Commissioners we appoint should account for what they have done and continue to do and not leave things exactly as they find them. However, I would like to draw the attention of the rapporteur and the Government - and I do so as far as possible - to ensure that some proposed changes are accepted in order to improve the structural solutions of the text under consideration and that there is a small sign of a reversal of the trend in relation to the model of legislative intervention taken. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u72	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u73	We are still talking about research and the Italian Institute of Technology, because I have heard that they finally give money to the research. First of all this is not the way to give money to research, because the same needs programming and multi-annual plans and not tips and brands. The second thing is that you give money not to research, but to Confindustria. Let's get this straight. All this is part of Renzi's central design, which has passed through the school, with the good school, for the jobs act, in which all the powers are centered also on the works on the territory, to arrive at the constitutional reform in itinere. Getting used to making political climbs through the donation of favors, continues his modus operandi, pretending - this time - to finance research and instead giving tips to the industrial world, probably hoping then for a return of votes. To those who have asked how much money will be given to this that - we remember - is an institute of Confindustria, the president Renzi has already replied from the Milan pulpits of our great and bankrupt Fair, announcing the redevelopment of that site with what will be called "Human technopole. Italy 2040," announcing the donation of money to the Italian Institute of Technology. EUR 150 million per year will be allocated for this project for the next ten years, a total of 1.5 billion. And on time, after Renzi's great announcement, came the Senate Act 2145 with the first 80 million. So, it's just a small portion of a huge amount of money that will be given to industrialists and not to research. To make a comparison, to support all the Italian public research will be destined, through the PRIN funds - they are the research plans of national importance and, in order to respond to the senators of the PD, they are the real research, and certainly not that of the Italian Institute of Technology - only 92 million euros per year for the next three years. In essence, to support all Italian research, you will give a lot of money to research and many to the Italian Institute of Technology. But then let's see what this Italian Institute of Technology is. Established in 2003 for Tremonti - in fact it is also called Tremonti Institute - this famous research institute was to become the new MIT, that is the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, one of the most important research universities in the world based in the USA. While Renzi, in his populism, calls him the great world research center, the symbol of a "new Humanism." If this is humanism... For us, however, it is something different. History tells us that this Italian Institute of Technology was only a wheelchair eats money. Managed by the ruling class of Confindustria, it was born with an initial contribution of 50 million euros for 2003 and then 100 million euros per year until 2014, in a period whose PRIN funds were suspended. Therefore, the Tremonti Institute of Technology was financed, but not Italian research. The total sum is 950 million euro, plus 130 million capital inherited from IRI. Meanwhile, the university turnover was blocked and the PRINs were financed with only EUR 100 million per year. Despite the sea of money, the Institute has not returned excellence. Or, at least, he gave some excellence, but not compared to the money he received. And in ten years contracts have been concluded for not even 3 million euros, hired about a thousand people with fixed-term contracts and realized a number of ridiculous scientific publications compared to the money allocated. Now, our Matteo Renzi compared the Institute to Fraunhofer, which is the Institute for the Development of Applied Research, which could be considered the German equivalent of the Italian Institute of Technology. But it has 1.7 billion capital, 70% of which comes from industry (and not 3%, as in our case) and 30% from public sources. Therefore, we are in front of an institution funded by the public, but which does private research and we must understand who the patents are. Despite such a contribution of public money, IIT must not be subject to the same transparency profiles as other public research bodies and, therefore, we do not have the same type of regulation for it. Despite the participation of public institutions - as a senator of the PD has said - it will, as usual, be false because the criteria of transparency are not provided for. So, I'd like to tell you that, if you have to give money to research, you don't do marcettes, as you did in the law of stability, with credits to friends of friends. Please fund university and public research. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u74	He's enlisted to speak Senator Boccardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of this decree-law, the first question I asked myself, and which I submit to the Government, is why the measures contained in it have not been incorporated into the law of stability and why the resources allocated to it have not been used to respond to the legitimate issues and problems that emerged during the discussion of the law of stability. During the discussion of the law of stability in the Senate, in fact, it was said by the Government that the margin of manoeuvre was reduced and was worth about 300 million euros. Many of the measures we wanted to revive employment and the economy, especially in the South, were denied us because you told us that there was not enough money. In the course of the debate, however, the Government itself passed a decree-law that allocated about 1 billion euros to the territories. I mean, it looks like the government wanted to save a little bit of money so that it could be distributed in anticipation of the upcoming local elections. In fact, it intervenes for Expo, for Bagnoli, for the waste of Naples, for the territorial continuity of Sardinia. Where you vote, the government's money arrives, with methods that recall the first Republic very much. The judgment, therefore, on the decree-law in question is negative: firstly, for reasons of method which I have just mentioned, since it uses funds not spent in substantial discrepancies from the forecasts of the accounting law and in violation of an obligation of correctness towards Parliament, to which the consistency of the funds has never been given. On the contrary, both when approving the draft settlement law and in the context of other measures, the Commission has consistently stated that there is no financial resources available for several important purposes. But the measure is also critical of the substance, in my view, and, given the small time available to me, I shall confine myself to just one point. Article 8 provides for an appropriation of EUR 10 million for the special promotion plan for Made in Italy. I would like to understand from the Government whether even Apulia, my Region, is considered Italy, and if even its agro-food excellences deserve to be protected as those of the other Regions. I would like to remind you that the opening of an infringement procedure initiated in recent days by the European Community against Italy on the case of xylella is precisely to show how superficially the Government has handled the matter. Perhaps, according to the Government, the Apulian oil, our crops, our nurseries obviously do not deserve to be protected. The xylella emergency was addressed with a chaotic and inconclusive plan, which had as only result to put in crisis the agricultural and nursery sector of Puglia. One of the key areas of Puglia's competitiveness is now in danger of being finally brought to its knees, with serious repercussions on employment levels. The land, its products and those who work it are our wealth, which the Government is guilty of deevaluating. These measures are of vital importance and, if we want to hope for a real recovery, we need a timely, serious and careful programming, and not a mere and tapered listing and then have free hand in the destination, perhaps to meet the demands of deployment. This - in my opinion - is an old way of understanding and practicing the policy that is badly suited to the real needs of our territory. There is so much talk of encouraging businesses, especially in the South, of having an eye on the South, but it seems to me that this is the poor son of our nation. Ladies and gentlemen, for politics to change, we must first change. We cannot expect things to change if we continue to act in the same way. We still cannot afford years of conflict, division and tension, with coalitions more interested in obtaining political victories and defeating the opponent in turn than in solving problems. The change must be addressed in this way, in order to face the discomfort of the people, the distress of the families, the anger of the young. The government today demonstrates, with this measure, once again, inability to use a compass and indicate a round of buoys, floats and sails in rituals that no longer enchant anyone. Our nation, rather than buffer measures, needs greater parliamentary governance and representativeness, first of all to address the most urgent problems facing citizens (the economic and social crisis, unemployment, precariousness, insecurity, protection of the territory). These are the ingredients to mitigate the dividing line between politics and public opinion, taking away space from anti-politics and the defeatism of despair. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucherini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an important measure, which allocates substantial funds (a total of EUR 875 million), mostly earmarked for investment expenditure, and which also serves, beyond specific destinations, to support a recovery which, in our country, is taking place and must also be supported by interventions of this kind. These measures are of territorial significance and are of urgency because they are mostly financed from the current budget at the end of the year. And I consider it positive that the government rakes up the funds for interventions that allow us to quickly open yards, give work and bring development into peripheral realities in our country. This is not about electoral tips or rain interventions, as I have heard from many senators who have spoken today. Of course, that there was the Expo in Milan was decided well before it was decided to make the elections in Milan. I believe that an intervention like what is done on the Expo in our country is meritorious and also with respect to the great events of the past, allows us to reuse its worldwide success by putting its experience at the service of the whole country, with an intervention of European and global level such as that foreshadowed in the decree-law under consideration. I think it is virtuous that, instead of realizing in the unused areas (as often happened at the end of big events) supermarkets, shopping centers, offices or palaces, this time we make a choice that goes in the sense of giving development to a fundamental sector of our country like research. Similarly, it was not decided by the Government to do the Jubilee in Rome and, therefore, it is out of God's grace to say that they give themselves the funds for this event because there will be elections in Rome. The funds for the Jubilee are being poured out because Pope Francis, a few months ago, without consulting the cardinals, and therefore least of all the President of the Council of our country, decided to call the extraordinary Jubilee of Mercy. It is not, therefore, the event of 2000, which was ordinary, and which is shown every twenty-five years, for which it is predictable and for which laws can be issued in good time. In this case it is an extraordinary event and the only legislative instrument to face it and to allocate resources was the decree-law, which provides minimal interventions for the city of Rome. If we remember the amount of interventions for the Jubilee of 2000, we see that in this case we speak of very limited funds, which fall within the scope of the Pope's choice, who wanted a Jubilee of Mercy very park, providing for the opening of the Holy Doors in many cities in Italy and in the world. There will be, therefore, an influx of pilgrims certainly not comparable to that of the last Jubilee, but that nevertheless requires interventions to secure the City, especially in a situation such as the current one after the attacks in Paris. From all this comes the funds intended to finance, for our security, 1,500 units at work during the year of the Jubilee and altogether all the yards opened in the last days in Rome to improve the usability of the city. In the same way it is not rainy and electoral funds that are planned to recover the housing of public housing. Overall, with this intervention will recover thousands of housing of public housing - about 12,000 - with maintenance operations, ranging from 15,000 to 50,000 euros. Moreover, it is not electoral funds for sports facilities where we find a very important event. It was launched yesterday in Rome, by the president of CONI Malagò and by many sportsmen, the candidacy of Rome and Italy to the Olympics of 2024, after, during the Monti Government, in an emergency situation, it was decided to withdraw our candidacy. Today Rome's candidacy for the Olympic Games is a great national commitment, as was the Expo, as was and is the Jubilee. It is important, therefore, that funds be allocated for sports facilities throughout Italy, especially to enable our country to support Rome's candidacy for the Olympic Games, which can represent another exceptional event, to relaunch. I conclude by saying that, today, we must not be afraid to spend the name of our country in major international events. The EXPO has taught us that there is a Italy that wants to resume to run and that exceptional and extraordinary events, if well directed, as it was Expo, can be the flywheel for the take-off of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u77	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u78	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u79	I give up the reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u80	The Government representative's reply will take place after the sitting has been suspended. I suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.45 p.m. and resumed at 16.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u81	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, he died yesterday in Rome, at the age of eighty-nine, Armando Cossutta, the protagonist of Italian and parliamentary political life for ten legislatures, from 1972 to 2008. Born in Milan on September 2, 1926, son of a worker of Trieste origin who worked in Sesto San Giovanni, he spent his childhood and adolescence in the Lombardy factories. It is here that Cossutta, in 1943, enrolled in the Italian Communist Party. Immediately after the armistice he joined the Resistance at the age of seventeen and, fighting against the Nazi Fascists as partisan in the Garibaldi Brigades, was captured and sentenced to the shooting. The war, the imprisonment, but also the experience of partisan solidarity represented for him the political apprenticeship. After the Liberation, he became secretary of the Party in Sesto San Giovanni and then city councilor in Milan, secretary of the Milan Federation of the Italian Communist Party and regional secretary. In 1972 he entered Parliament, where he remained uninterruptedly first as a senator and then as a Member, until the 15th legislature. As part of a political career developed in a bipolar world scenario, Cossutta chose to remain faithful to his youth ideals, often in contrast to the decisions of his own party. It was Cossutta who, in 1982, expressed himself harshly against what he apostrophe as Berlinguer's tear in relation to General Jaruzelski's coup d'état in Poland. As a leading executive in the delicate two years of transition 1989-1991, he openly showed his disagreement with the dissolution of the Italian Communist Party. In February 1991 he founded with Sergio Garavini and Lucio Libertini the Movement for the Communist Refoundation which, in December of the same year, became Party of the Communist Refoundation, of which he was president. Again, in 1998 he opposed the decision of Fausto Bertinotti, who became secretary of the party, to withdraw his confidence to the first Prodi Government and with Oliviero Diliberto formed the Italian Communist Party. From 1999 to 2004 he was also a Member of the European Parliament. It was, above all, the last few years of his political militancy that led him to reconsider the role of the Community institutions in the development of democracy in Europe as a fundamental one. As a Member of Parliament, during the debate of 25 January 2005 on the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, he stated that he strongly believed that our future, Italy and the world of work is, and I have no doubt, in Europe and with Europe. The first years of the 21st century were for Cossutta a time of balance. In 2004 he published his autobiography, titled emblematically "A communist history": Italian history and Italian lefts, but also profound reflection on the topicality of a communist identity in the context of the cultural and political transformation that had invested our society. Senator Cossutta was, by his own definition, a communist without shame and abjure. Together, he was a man of institutions and a man of democracy. This is how I think he would like to be remembered: a communist, a parliamentarians, a man who fought and lived for republican institutions and made history of them. I address an affectionate greeting to the family members of Armando Cossutta and invite all colleagues to observe in his memory a minute of silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u84	TRONTI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the news is warm and the word cannot be improvised. The character, moreover, is complex and also contradictory and we will have to go back with more attention and precision. Armando Cossutta's life was long and much spent - as has been recalled - within the parliamentary institutions for more than three decades both in Italy and in Europe. He was a party man and, therefore, present in the society and history of this country: from the Resistance to Fascism, to the working-class struggle in his Milan of which he was an interpreter and representative. From Togliatto school and, therefore, from good political school, he was among the top executives of the PCI. He was also a controversial figure. The public image, especially in the final phase of its political activity, has remained that of the irreducible, of the nostalgic, even of the sectarian. Today, in the time of easy and light communication, we know how much it means to be the victim of this label. True, as long as it was possible, it had a link, as was said at the time, of iron and steel with the Soviet Union, even when its own party had distanced itself and this was the cause of internal confrontation. He was a fighter and did not escape this conflict. When he decided to close with the history of the PCI, he rebelled and wanted to become the protagonist of a difficult and also unlikely continuity. But until then he had been a convinced exponent of the Italian way to socialism, with those characteristics that the PCI had assumed from the turn of Salerno onwards, of the party of the people, party of the Constitution, product of the best national history. That's why I don't know how exact that image we were talking about earlier. He was actually a kind, jovial, communicating, firm in his convictions, but never closed, never arrogant. These days I think we will talk about its consistency. It is said now, and it is a thought of common sense, that certain coerencies must be abandoned when the replicas of history wrong us. But history isn't always right. There is a tragic struggle between the human intentions and the objectivity of the mechanisms, between the revolutionary will and the irresistible power of the always equal that returns, the eternal struggle between freedom and necessity. To be consistent with oneself, with one's own history, so when it's a great and noble story, it's quality to appreciate and re-evaluate. He said, not long ago, before his illness cut him off, anyway, after a long and good life: If tomorrow there will be a stone on my ashes, write on it: Armando Cossutta, communist. I want to remember one last memory, which I have of him. I have never shared many of his positions, but at a public assembly of militants - I no longer remember the occasion - I saw tears come down from his eyes when the comrades, standing, began to sing the International, and this episode made me feel close, makes me feel close again and will make me feel close once and for all. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, AL-A, LN-Aut, CoR, GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI) and Mixed.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u87	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Armando Cossutta has been an authentic gentleman who has devoted himself passionately to politics throughout his life and can only remember him so also who was and is on political positions distant light years from his own. Its political formation is all within the sphere of communism. In particular the Soviet communism, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. His position was so philosoviet that he challenged the revisionist opening desired by what can be considered the most innovative secretary of the Italian Communist Party, Enrico Berlinguer. It was that rift, as it was defined in 1981, by Berlinguer that allowed over the years to follow an electoral growth of the Italian Communist Party and led the historic leftist party to confront the Christian Democracy, reaching it in number of votes. Cossutta was what a professional politician would call himself today. A man who devoted his whole life to politics, who saw him sit in the Senate, the House and also the European Parliament for over thirty-five years. But he was a politician who carried his ideas forward with great consistency. Politics was the passion that inspired his whole life, just as his communist creed inspired, ten years after the tear, in 1991, the "communist refoundation," just when the new leadership began to dissolve the Italian Communist Party. After this refoundation a second one followed when it came to the constitution of the Italian Communist Party. Much has been said and written about his relations with Moscow. What is certain is that Cossutta was part of the old communist school and could not help but have relations with Moscow, with the largest communist party in the world, which has so much encouraged and influenced the growth of the communist parties of Eastern Europe and in part of the rest of the world, including the Italian one. Those who remember him in the last years of the first Republic also remember him as a great architect of parliamentary activity. At the Senate he was able to unite the forces of his own small parliamentary group with those of other opposition groups, even of different political inspiration, in order to hinder, in regulatory terms, the action of the last Governments of the Pentaparty and inspire an opposition to those non-shared political ones. Passing to the House he consistently carried forward his political path from the far left, with a former Communist Party that in the meantime had undergone various structural changes towards the Democratic Party. Yet, he must be recognized the enormous coherence throughout the life journey, which sees him born son of worker of the Marelli of Sesto San Giovanni, where he began to make politics, enter into resistance with the Garibaldi Brigades and continue his political career in Milan and then at national level. He was always at the highest level, with great constancy and continuity in his ideas and with a great charisma, a rare gift to be found today. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, AL-A, LN-Aut, CoR, GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI) and Mixed-SEL. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u90	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am honored to have been a personal friend of Armando Cossutta, as well as an estimate. He was a man from whom they divided me from abyssal political distances, but of whom I want to honor, with deference, pointing him to young people as an example, passion, uprightness and political coherence. Armando Cossutta was a man of the Resistance; he loved and defended communism, but in the same way he showed love for politics and institutions. I have learned from people like him and others of his generation the exemplary and upright way of living his parliamentary experience, his love for the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, his passion for politics. He was a cultured man of great irony: he also knew how to have fun and have fun in private moments. I don't forget his extraordinary human warmth; his unbearable passion for sport, for Inter, of which he was an access and passionate fan. He has always been a partisan, but with a rare quality: the ability and curiosity to talk and dialogue with others, even with people who are farthest from his political experience. Honoring men like him, as you wanted to do in this session, is something, in my opinion, inescapable, also to cultivate the memory of what we have been and of the men who have done in good and evil, through sad pages and also pages of great successes, the history of our Republic. I think that on Armando Cossutta we should dedicate after these first moments not trivial and more in-depth reflections. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), PD, FI-PdL XVII, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, AL-A, LN-Aut, CoR, GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI) and Mixed-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u93	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I was lucky enough to meet Senator Cossutta here in the last two years of his parliamentary experience. We were in the same Group together with the Italian Green-Communist Union. So I learned, in those two hard, difficult years, for the numbers here in the Senate, to support the Prodi Government, to appreciate the qualities of Armando Cossutta political leader, the qualities of Armando Cossutta parliamentary, which supported us, also in suggestions, initiatives, in the style of parliamentary work. And I have had the opportunity to appreciate it also for its human qualities, in a group made up of men and women, even so different from each other, with such different political paths. Yet, it was, for those two years, I want to remember here, an element of unit building. A little 'all his political path was marked by the attempt to the end also to build a path of unity of the left. Of course, his political path was different from many of us, from mine, from ours, everything within the history of the Italian Communist Party. He was a communist to the end and remained so until the end, without abjuration, without repentance, but with a strong claim of a history and a story that contributed strongly to the construction of the Italian Republic. And even when he was considered, within the Italian Communist Party, as the leader certainly closest to the Soviet Union and more philosovietic, he did so with conviction, even when it was often difficult to have his own views on that country and on that matter. But yours was an exemplary story of the left of this country. Very young partisan fighter, with this history and with his struggle he helped to build and give this country, not only freedom and democracy, but that wonderful republican constitution for which he fought. I say this with cognition of cause, having met him also recently, accompanied always in demonstrations by his daughter Maura. To the end his thought and commitment went to defend our Constitution. So, even in the difference of his path, which was one of the most important in republican history, he was at the same time a political man and a parliamentarians who served and honored the republican institutions and parliamentary institutions in which he deeply believed, in a mixture of competence, passion and sense of responsibility. Therefore, even from different positions, as we have heard today, we honor him as an extreme defender of democracy and institutions. On its crystalline transparency, on its commitment to politics, on its passion, no one has ever been able to advance the slightest doubt. He was a man of exquisite courtesy, as he has shown all these years. Throughout his life he has been sided with the weakest, coherently. And when he thought that his party, the PCI, by changing his name, he was preparing to abandon that social side also did not hesitate to abandon him, to give life to the Communist Refoundation. For this reason, I believe that today to greet Armando Cossutta with sincere emotion is not only the left, of which he has been for many decades great political leader, but the entire Italian democracy, which from partisan has helped to build, and whoever has at heart the defense of democratic institutions can only today weep and honor him. To his loved ones, to Maura, to those who have accompanied him in all these years also of political militancy goes the embrace and closeness of the senators of Left Ecology and Freedom and of the Mixed Group. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, AL-A, LN-Aut, CoR, GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI) and Mixed.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u96	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, Cossutta struck me a lot when I read, on 10 October 1990, on the occasion of the presentation of the symbol of the nascent PDS depicting an oak, which commented caustic: It looks like a carnation. Whoever is speaking has a clove in his eye and, as he was proud to be a communist, a philosoviet communist, I am proud of my reformism and my carnation. I would like to recall Cossutta not as everyone else did and as you did: I would not like to remember him as the philosoviet politician, but rather for that rare political lucidity between communists and post-communists. This morning I spoke about the town of Lissone, where a square will no longer be named after Bettino Craxi. Well, Cossutta supported Bettino Craxi's project to build a large socialist party on the model of the German SPD - Cossutta was also this - capable of ruling as an alternative to Christian Democracy. While the various Occhetto, D'Alema, Vendola, Bersani were opposed to the socialist unity, Cossutta said to me Craxi, and it is in the documents as well as in the memory that I still have of the conversation in Hammamet when as mayor of Aulla I had the opportunity to bring to Bettino Craxi the honorary citizenship - he was the only one to have understood the importance of this political project of unity of the socialists, so he would join willingly having in mind and reserve himself - he always told me Craxi - to make his own internal cosutian current. It is from this point of view that I want to remember it. The participation and closeness of all of us and of our Group goes to the family, but here I wish to emphasize - I repeat - its lucidity oriented towards a left-wing agreement in which the two, Craxi and Cossutta, have always respected each other, unlike others. Someone also called him a militant chaplain, depending on the moments in which he was in the relationship of strength at the level of the governments of the Republic. I should like to conclude by saying one thing. His family were close to him. He had the luck - he did, as an Italian politician - to finish his days on the patriotic soil, that luck that others - like the statesman I mentioned earlier - did not have. I believe that now, in the afterlife, the unity of the Italian socialists will be found precisely with Craxi, Pertini, Armando Cossutta and others, who will continue to do what we have not been able to do here in Italy: to bring to the government, as they wanted Cossutta and Craxi, a great left, on the model of the European one. [[Applause from Senators Longo Eva and Conti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u99	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, yesterday afternoon at the San Camillo hospital in Rome, Armando Cossutta, historian of the PCI, died. He would have turned 90 this year. Cossutta is remembered by all as the most philosoviet of Italian communists. The PCI was one of the pillars in the years when the relationship with Moscow was stronger. He joined the party in 1943 and had participated in the Resistance in the Garibaldi Brigades. In the post-war period he became leader of the party; he was secretary of the Communist Party of Milan, then entered Parliament in 1972, staying there until 2006. In 1981 he strongly opposed the revisionist line of Secretary Berlinguer, who said that the thrust of the October Revolution had run out, trying to detach the PCI from its historical relations with the communist regimes of the Soviet bloc. Cossutta was so faithful to his communist dream that he risked a heart attack to the famous interview in which Berlinguer confided that he felt more secure under the umbrella of NATO than under the Soviet one of the Warsaw Pact. In the years of the turn of Bolognina he was among the main animators of the fight against the liquidation of the historical and political heritage of the Italian Communist Party, so much so that in February 1991 he founded, with Sergio Garavini, Lucio Libertini and others, the Movement for the Communist Refoundation, which in December of the same year joined Proletarian Democracy founding the Party of the Communist Refoundation, of which he was president. But when, in 1998, Fausto Bertinotti, then secretary of the Party, withdrew his confidence to the Prodi Government, Cossutta opposed, detaching himself from the Party and founding a new party, the Italian Communist Party, with Oliviero Diliberto and Marco Rizzo. Again, some disagreements and in 2008 he finally withdrew from active policy. He was a consistent man, faithful to himself, to his feelings and to his illusions; a consistent man also against the evidence of facts. Famous was one of his words: If tomorrow there will be a stone on my ashes, please write on it: Armando Cossutta, communist. He was, yes, a communist, because the faith in socialism never abandoned him, but he was also "right" on the internal political line; he was the builder of the broad understandings in the municipalities when he was responsible for the local authorities. He was very strict in the battle of the Italian Communist Party against terrorism and extremism. As someone has already mentioned, we read in the newspapers that the left is sorry for this very serious loss. I think politics has lost an important man. I have not met him, I have read something in recent hours and, on our part, from the Lega Nord Group and the Autonomous Senate of the Republic, we offer our family our deepest condolences. [[Applause from the groups LN-Aut and Aut(SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u102	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I do not add many words to those already spoken in this House by my fellow Members who have preceded me and have outlined, both from a historical and personal point of view, the extraordinary, very important political history of Armando Cossutta. I remember, to focus on one of the aspects that I care about most, some of its fundamental passages, first and foremost that of partisan. From there I believe that he has moved the first steps towards a strong adherence - strong, as strong was his characteristic trait - to a model of life and society, which in our country was instead strongly opposed by other cultural and political forces. He is therefore one of the main protagonists, together with his party, of the contrast between the vision of a collectivist society, on the Soviet model - that is, on the Stalinist model - and the vision of a society, which placed the person, before the State, and the community, before the community, at the centre of its attention. We are talking about this today and we owe it to men like him if, in the years of the birth of Italian democracy, built by men like him, this debate has been able to unravel and evolve up to the present day and give us with the history of the parties, the history of a country and of many communities, increased thanks to the great ability of the parties to represent the real, the most real society. His realism was basically this, before even being that belonging to real socialism, which instead created a long distance between the Italian people and what the Italian Communist Party represented at the time and which it represented until a few years ago, to the point that the revisionist line of Enrico Berlinguer was seriously opposed by men like Cossutta. We know that in that revisionist line there was also much of that sense of opportunity, which instead Armando Cossutta refused, because he did not have the opportunity or opportunism in his cultural background. Instead, he had the clarity, clarity and strength of his convictions. Much, almost everything, distinguishes us from Armando Cossutta, except for the most important thing: the love for those institutions, built and rebuilt, with the value of men, women and their blood, the one really poured out, and the daily commitment to defend the institutions and the representation of citizens, essential salt of democracy, which we, often, treat too lightly today. In uniting myself with the condolences of all of us in this House - and I thank you, Mr President, for wanting this memory - I offer my condolences to the family, knowing that I give you the sense of esteem and respect of every Member crossing this threshold, in the memory of those democratic institutions, guaranteed and supported by the daily commitment of men like Armando Cossutta. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senators Buemi and Russo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u103	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u104	Mr. President Grasso, I think you're right: Armando Cossutta was a democratic communist, I would say an Italian and democratic communist, because without this connection one risks not to understand the complexity of the political man and the figure that so many signs left in his action, even within the institutions. This association - an Italian and democratic communist - is evident to me in two extraordinary moments, in the course of essentially a decade: the opposition to the politics of Enrico Berlinguer, which originated from Eurocommunism and which led him to the opposition to the dissolution of the PCI in a new political formation - as was said then - that is, the PDS and, a few years later, the break with the party that had helped to found, following that split that I recalled, in order to allow the continuation of the Prodi Government, that is, the first Government of the Olive tree. This was Armando Cossutta. It had clear how to connect ideals, coerencies and general interest. He has been elected several times in Lombardy, I have known him and I remember his kind traits, dialogues and never presumptuous. Severo with himself even before others, a truly rigorous man, a personality that has helped the weakest to nurture hope and that has well interpreted the sense of the State and the Nation, who has been able to combine their co-erences with the general interest. It is with these expressions that I join the condolences already expressed by President Grasso and many colleagues and I address this same sentiment, also on behalf of the Government, to the family. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u105	I announce that Palazzo Madama will host Armando Cossutta's fiery room tomorrow, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u106	He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I would like to raise the question of confidence in the approval of the amendment that I am going to present, entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 2145, of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 185 of 25 November 2015, transposing the amendments proposed by the Commission. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] NUGNES (M5S). Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u108	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government. In accordance with practice, I transmit the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission because, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it informs the Assembly of the financial coverage profiles. I therefore call upon the Conference of Leaders to organise the relevant debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 4.43 p.m. and resumed at 5.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the text of the Decree-Law on urgent measures for interventions in the territory. For the general discussion on confidence, which will take place this afternoon, forty minutes were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The explanations of vote and the call will take place tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. The other arguments provided for in the current timetable remain confirmed. Therefore, after the vote of confidence, the House will move on to the discussion of the draft RAI reform law and the public radio and television service. Amendments to the measure will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. tomorrow. The communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 17-18 December 2015 will be held tomorrow from 3.30 p.m. The Conference of the Leaders also approved by a majority the timetable for next week's work: the Assembly will hold single sessions without prevision of closing hours on Monday 21 starting at 3 p.m. on Tuesday 22 and, if necessary, on Wednesday 23 December for the second reading of the draft stability and budgetary law. The committees in the consultative committee will have to submit their reports to the 5th Commission by 1 p.m. on Monday 21 December, the deadline for tabling amendments to the debate in this House. Please note that, at the request of the family, Senator Cossutta's fiery room will be set up on Thursday 17 December from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., to change what was previously communicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u112	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement Group calls for the motion of no confidence to be tabled by Mr Boschi today to be included on the calendar as a matter of urgency. We do not believe that there is a need for such a serious point on which our country is waiting for clear, public and precise answers from all political forces. The citizens are waiting not for talk on television but for discussions in this House, President. We therefore call for the motion to be scheduled on the first useful day, i.e. Saturday or, alternatively, if this proposal should be rejected, we call for it to be scheduled next Monday, moving the treatment of the law of stability of one day, thus making the sitting scheduled for December 23 no longer possible but clearly certain. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u115	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we discussed this again at the meeting of the RAI group leaders, on which we have once again tried, and we hope that this will not happen, but I want to say it clearly, that we will also arrive at this House without concluding our work in the Commission. I do not think that the 100 or a little more amendments which have been tabled in total to the text received by the House in the Commission can be obstructed. Among other things, there are perhaps less than 40 left and so I believe that for this draft law we must absolutely follow the normal procedure, also because we can no longer endorse this gossip for which the work of the Commissions, at a certain point, is bypassed and we arrive at the Assembly with very delicate measures and, in the specific case of the RAI, of great importance also constitutional being at stake a constitutionally sanctioned right such as that of freedom of information of the public service. I therefore hope that the process of work in the Commission will be concluded peacefully. However, as you know, Mr President, we have repeatedly stressed the need - and this morning too we have voted on a proposal to do so - to deal first with the debate on delegation on procurement - which seems absolutely fundamental to me - and then, immediately afterwards, to discuss RAI. I think we have a great need. The proposal to schedule the motion of individual mistrust against Mr Boschi was put back in the House. In addition to this, we are also asking - because I believe it is crucial - that the draft law on conflict of interest be set up on Monday once and for all. Mr President, we have been discussing this for a long time. In fact, in one of the first Leopolds it was one of the first proposals made by the current President of the Council, but then the issue disappeared from the attention of this House, of Parliament and also of politics. I therefore believe that it would be very important to schedule and incardinate the measure in this House, even when we are debating the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u118	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the RAI measure seems to be a karst measure: it sometimes appears and sometimes disappears. However, it seems to me an extremely important measure for the future of public service and for what the same represents in our country as factory and consent machine, as well as being the most important company in Italy. Changes have been made to the House of Deputies in relation to the highly controversial text of the Senate. As many will recall, in this House Article 4 was sunk down by a vote where the majority lost for very few votes and, therefore, we believe that the change that we are obliged to call for today is a timetable in this House, where work in the Commission has been completed. It is not acceptable to imagine that we will arrive in this Chamber without having completed our work in the Commission, taking into account the fact that, out of 140 amendments tabled, a hundred have been voted on and withdrawn. There's only 40 left. On the part of no group there has been a obstructive attitude to such a measure and, therefore, it seems to us obligatory that the debate should continue and end in the Commission and that it should come to this House for once, once and for all, experience the capacity that the Commissions have, as is well known, to give an appropriate insight into an extremely important issue in this case. The amendment we are proposing is therefore as follows: yes to the timetable for the draft RAI reform bill, but where the work in the Commission has been completed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u121	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the outcome of the group leader does not satisfy us, especially because of the lack of a sense of responsibility of those who represent and represented the majority at that meeting by refusing to schedule the motion of distrust to Mr Boschi, whom we support. President, this is not simply about the lack of confidence in the Minister, but about giving answers to tens of thousands of swindled citizens, who are reading from the newspapers of turbid interweavings among government representatives - first of all Minister Boschi and related relatives - and financial circles that have led these people to lose all their savings. Mr President, the decision not to accept the proposal for a timetable in Group Leaders is an insult to the clarity of these citizens. We consider ourselves, like these citizens, to be damaged because this means damaging democracy. Preventing that motion from being discussed in here means preventing citizens from having answers. I have been able to read in the daily press - as all the senators and citizens can do - the questions that are raised about how much money has been circulating and how much money has been paid to the administrators of that bank, of which Minister Boschi's father was vice-president. For example, in the daily newspaper "Il Sole 24 Ore" we want to know how many credits in jam or suffering in the head of directors or former mayors of Banca Etruria are worth 90 million euros and how many of these are due to Pierluigi Boschi. Mr President, a motion of distrust also makes it possible to clarify these aspects. It is not only the question of a member of the Government, but of respect for tens of thousands of citizens who have lost all their assets and who today read, in the press, members of the Government protected by President Renzi who, on the other hand, seem to have taken advantage of their savings! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Scilipoti Isgrò]] We must make this clear and I also wonder who, in here, opposes and who, instead, pretends to oppose! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Because one cannot but support a motion of distrust which, I repeat, is a moment of clarity. It cannot be said that it does not concern, as we heard from President Paolo Romani earlier, a motion of distrust of Minister Boschi, after what we are reading in the newspapers. It is a moment of clarity for the citizens and to oppose it means, first of all, to be clear before the citizens! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u124	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I repeat once again the importance of the motion of no confidence to Mr Boschi. In addition, I would like to ask the Commissions 2nd and 10th for the immediate consideration of the 1950 Senate Act, namely the class action, also because it was unanimously approved by the House, so also by the majority. It would be an answer to all those citizens cheated by the banks. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u127	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since we in this House have a very bad habit of bringing the positions taken at the Conference of Leaders, so do I. I did not hear, on the part of the League, ask in the Capigroup the presentation of the motion of individual distrust to Minister Boschi; instead I heard it done by Senator Giarrusso. I have expressed this view, and therefore made it clear and definitive. We are not interested in individual motions of distrust; instead we are willing to understand what has actually happened in the scandal of the four failed banks, on which CONSOB supervision, the supervision of Bankitalia and the supervision of the Government have probably been lacking. [[Applause from Senator Alicata.]] To this end, we have called for the establishment of a bicameral parliamentary committee of inquiry, whose founding text is ready, on the basis of which we will finally be able to know the truth. So, these games and games, dear Senator Candiani, if you keep them for yourself and another time you learn to say in the Conference of the Leaders what you claim to mean in this House. [[Senator Volpi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u130	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I would like to add a few words to the words of my previous colleagues, in trying to bring back as correctly as possible the debate held at the Conference of the Leaders. Of course, it is not up to me to do this, but I hope, not unworthyly, to remember that, in view of Senator Giarrusso's proposal, the Groups have each expressed their views. With reference to the first opinions, which first concerned the timetable and its timing, also linked to the definitive approval of the law of stability, I consider the approval of the law of stability an absolute priority for the country, which has the preferential lane on anything. We are still in the budgetary session and, precisely for this reason, we are obliged to respond to the citizens first of all to the country's establishment. As far as the burning issue is concerned, I also think that the crucial issue facing dismaying citizens, who risk seeing their confidence in the banking system further cracked, and the most useful solution is that of a Commission of Inquiry into the credit system in general. In particular, it would be a great moment of clarity, which we would seize with the occasion, to explain and tell the truth to the Italians, not only about the banking system, but also about the debt system that concerns the life of all the Italian Municipalities, of each of us - first of all of the Italian State - on the situation of derivatives that soften our public debt and credit. Having said that, for me that is the main way to follow. It is right that the House has remembered how today we call for an overall vision on the distrust of the Government when instead cases as striking as that of Minister Bondi, who for a wall fallen in Pompeii had to undergo a motion of distrust by the PD, are not remembered by anyone. But in this case, in order to return to our question, I am of the opinion, Mr President, that if a motion of distrust must be, this must be directed towards those who, as Senator Paolo Romani has just said, are in charge of the supervision of the Bank of Italy or CONSOB, or worse still, of the supervision of the Government, which has not been, calling into question the Minister of the Economy; anything but Minister Boschi! [[Applause from the CoR Group]] Because here the answer must be given to Italians not with regard to Minister Boschi, but with regard to what Minister Padoan did or, worse, did not do to defend Italian savings. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Paolo Romani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u132	In the meantime, if the group leader is to be brought back to the House, we might as well change the regulations and make the conference directly and transparently in the Chamber. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] , because everyone then needs to express and reaffirm the positions expressed at the Conference of the Leaders. That said, Senator Candiani intervenes briefly for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u133	Mr President, much less is enough, because this is not about clarity, it is about intellectual honesty. I in that group leader, and I was sitting much closer to Senator Giarrusso than in this case to Senator Paolo Romani (it will also be a sign of destiny), I supported that initiative and I say it today once again, because those who want to be opposition have clear ideas and do not need subterfuge. [[Applause from Senator Calderoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u134	We greet the members of the association "Insieme per voi" of Cornedo Vicentino, in the province of Vicenza, who follow our work and our debates. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u135	I put to the vote the proposal to include the motion of no confidence on Mr Boschi, tabled by Senators Giarrusso, De Petris, Candiani and Bottici in the agenda of the Assembly. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Santangelo, it's obvious, and the secretary senators confirm that it's not necessary. If it were necessary, we would. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u138	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, excuse me, but it only takes 20 seconds for me to finish the sentence. During the vote, there are several Members on the move. I understand that perhaps the vote can be certain in a certain direction, but I believe that my request also goes in your favour in order to simplify the work. We don't take anything to do a rehearsal. It's just a matter of common sense. Then you're the president and you're the one who decides. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have already decided and the Secretary Senators comfort me in saying that the proposal for variation is not approved. [[Ironic applause from Senator Morra. Comments from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). You're all going home anyway. It's not enough to be smart!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u139	I put to the vote the proposal to include the discussion of the draft law on conflict of interest, as well as the change in the agenda on delegation of contracts, made by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to include in the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, with reference to the draft law of reform of the RAI, the words "Ove concluded by the Commission" put forward by Senator Romani Paolo. [[The Senators of the M5S Group raise their hands both to the request to vote in favour and to vote against and to declare abstention]] It's not approved. MORONESE (M5S). We voted three times differently!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u142	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, it is not our custom to disregard the Rules of Procedure, but on this occasion we deliberately voted on all three solutions: how could you say that one solution was valid and the other did not? And the secretaries didn't notice. I would ask for a counter-proof of the previous votes, because it is not possible to vote in this way. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u143	Senator Santangelo, despite...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u144	SANTANGELO (M5S). She does not have the gift of ubiquity and is not the Nostradamus of the Senate. You have to keep counting and, when these are not clear - objectively you always vote in this way - it takes you two seconds to do the counterproof. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u145	When I think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u146	SANTANGELO (M5S). But it is a clearly false vote and you know it!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u147	I put to the vote the proposal to include in the calendar of the proceedings of the Assembly the examination of the bill on class action, made by Senator Bottici. [[The Senators of the M5S Group raise their hands both to the request to vote in favour and to vote against and to declare abstention.]] I see you raise your hand several times. Despite this, the assessment does not change. SANTANGELO (M5S). How can you tell if the vote is positive or negative if we raise our hands on all the solutions? How do you do that? If we raise them all, what's our vote? Are we for or against? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is very simple, because the first vote by show of hands is what is considered valid. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Who said that? That's ridiculous! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not approved. We have thus concluded all the votes concerning changes in the timetable. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u150	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, in view of the absolute refusal by the majority to address this issue directly with the motion of confidence, I would ask you whether it is possible, as soon as possible, to have Mr Padoan here tomorrow, so that you can explain exactly the same things that you had the time to explain to the Leopolda. I think that Minister Padoan, who has a relationship with this ectoplasmic Chamber - we have only seen him once for three minutes - should have the courage and dignity to appear before this House, which remains a parliamentary Chamber - at least, as long as you exist as President, I imagine it is - and explain to us what he has gone to explain to the Leopolda about the banks and everything else. I would therefore urge you to make a statement by Mr Padoan in this House as soon as possible, because people are sick of getting fucked up. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u151	Do not use these expressions, which do not fit your style at all.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u152	I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Tonini, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of amendment 1,800.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u153	Mr President, the 5th Commission has examined the maxi mum amendment proposed by the Government, entirely replacing the draft law to convert the Decree-Law under consideration, and has concluded that there are no financial findings, being supported in this assessment by the technical report of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. The Commission has also noted two minor variations from the text approved by the Commission, which do not alter its substance, at least in the view of the President. However, I think it is right that they should be made known to this House. The first amendment can be found in the Annex to the Decree-Law of 25 November 2015, in the paragraph beginning with the words: In Article 10, after paragraph 2, the following shall be added: In fact, the text refers to the universal service of rail transport of national interest. It did not appear in the amendment approved by the Commission. 18.17 (continued TONINI). Similarly, to the paragraph beginning with the words "In Article 11," after paragraph 2, the following shall be added: "At the end of paragraph 2-b, the words "The contribution" shall be found, which shall take into account the lower external costs." In this case a different expression is used than that used in the text approved by the Commission, in which we talked about avoided external costs, rather than lower external costs. Again, supported by the technical report, there are no significant variations in substance from the point of view of the 5th Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u154	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u155	Madam President, I would like to take advantage of this debate, which takes place immediately after the vote on the calendar, to make a suggestion to the President of the Senate and to the Conference of Leaders. It seems to me that the time has now come for us to begin to identify the week of trusts in order to organize the Senate's work, rather than to take place in the Commission and to return the measure to the House. This is the third time, in a week's time, that a measure is regularly dismissed by the Commissions - I must also say with the support of the opposition - so that we can arrive at the debate in this House, and this debate is interrupted by the position of the matter of trust. This is true, despite some important issues - the Government is witnessing this - have not been defined, with the express understanding of the rapporteur, and therefore of the majority and the Government, to discuss them and define them in the Assembly. All of this, of course, is detrimental not only to the opposition - I am speaking here mainly to my colleagues in the majority - but also to Parliament in its entirety. It is no longer acceptable to do so, which is characterised by the position of the question of trust, in order to frustrate the debate in this House. What is the government afraid of? Are you afraid that Parliament will be able to express itself, one-off, in this parliamentary term or in the course of a debate, by establishing something different from what is decided in the seats outside the government? [[Brusio. Recalls of the President]] Then, the absolute contempt of the Government results not in a vote of confidence, but in an attestation of distrust of Parliament and - worse still, I repeat - of absolute disregard for the parliamentary function that is the basis of our Constitution. Ours is, until now, a parliamentary Republic and not a governmental Republic, Madam President and, above all, colleagues! I want to know as long as you have patience, not to mention the absolutely uncritical acquiescence of putting up with this kind of attitude on the part of your government. It is primarily you who I am addressing, so that we can have a serious plenary debate on important issues, which concern the country, and which must be seriously addressed. On the substance of this measure, we have said in general debate and in the Commission, but at this point nothing goes outside, because the debates of the Commission are not reported as those of the House and, therefore, the citizens cannot listen to the views of the parties on individual measures. This is about Expo, Jubilee and Bagnoli. We are talking here about a number of heavy measures, much more important than those dealt with in the law of stability. And we know that the House is still arriving, in the Cesarini area - as is said in our current language - very important amendments during the discussion of the stability law: amendments that not only the Senate will not be able to discuss, because they are also forced by the outcome of the calendar to a few hours of debate on a further presumed and presumable confidence, but cannot even discuss our party colleagues in the House. These are, in fact, amendments that go beyond the debate in the Commission and come directly to this House, and they will also be defined by a vote of confidence. Now it is time to end it, and I say this to you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to you who bear this state of affairs and support it: it is not only the Government that despises, tramples and humiliates Parliament. It is primarily you, with your acquiescence, who do so. It is not possible to arrive in the Chamber in perfect order, with the rapporteur and with the amendments adopted or rejected, and with the reservation that we approve or reject others, expressly referred to as a majority will, and that is why we are interrupting the debate here! I think there are no more comments to make on the measures. The opposition and also a part of the majority, which is still considered autonomous and with the dignity of its decisions, should refrain not only from voting on trusts, but also from voting and discussion in the Commissions, because this becomes absolutely useless! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u156	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u157	Madam President, yes, it is true: the real record of Matteo Renzi is the issues of trust. I think it's 44, but it's hard to keep track of it. "What is the government afraid of?" my colleague asked: Nothing. This, in fact, is a measure that shows that the Government does not raise the question of trust because it fears to go into the minority and does not do so to recover time, because - as we see every time - it takes time; it does so precisely to carry out an act of force, an act of contempt towards the Assembly of the Senate. And this is done systematically, in order to demonstrate to us and to show you that it does not take any account of us, that it does not take into account Parliament, the democratic institution governed by our Constitution. That is the truth of the facts. So I also address you and ask you: how can you endure this state of affairs? There are three questions which pose a procedural difficulty to the measure under consideration. First of all, it is a measure that we could not even have discussed, precisely because we are in the budgetary session. It is also a decree-law which - as has already been said - does not respect Article 77 of the Constitution, because it is an omnibus, sectoral, heterogeneous and localistic measure. There is, however, a common denominator that binds all territorial choices: they are all territories (or almost all) that will soon go to the vote and therefore, in Renzi's best tradition, they are measures that serve to make cash, to monetize with economic measures those that will be the future votes. As we said, there are some 900 million for heterogeneous territorial interventions and certainly very often not consistent, because - for example - some would be part of the current expenditure and because, with regard in particular to Made in Italy, they have already been foreseen in the bill of stability. 206 million are allocated for the Jubilee in Rome, 150 million for the post Expo (still money at the Expo), 150 million for the land of fires, 150 million for Bagnoli, 25 million for the popular homes, 50 for the bad weather emergency, 100 million for the sports facilities on the outskirts, which put in the hands of the CONI a suprastructural power. And then, again, millions are allocated for civil service, for the Social Fund for employment and training, for cinema, for Sardinia and for Reggio Calabria. At this moment we want to highlight how the Renzi model emerges from this; a model that wants to be proposed not only in this act of force, which he perhaps considered manly and muscular, but also in what he believes is his victory, that is the Expo, that he wants to propose as model also for Rome and Naples. On the other hand, we want to stress that this model is absolutely a loser. What do Rome and Naples have in common? The fact of being a commissariat or subcommissariate: on the occasion of the Jubilee 206 million will go into the hands of commissioners and subcommissaries Tronca, Gabrielli and Monsignor Fisichella. What about Bagnoli's recovery? It is taken away from the territories, the police station, managed by a government commissioner and a decision-making body. As laid down in Article 33 of the Italian unblocking decree, with the creation of the area of significant national interest, an important historical territory, full of force (in fact, on the territories at this moment there are tables of discussion on the destiny of Bagnoli) is taken away from the territories and the management of the urban planning agencies; the plans and the environmental constraints, the choices that have already been made and the will of the city council, are unknown, in order to deliver in the hands of the government commissioner, to the subject actuator and to the very particular interests of the private ones what should be the reclamation of the area and the urban destiny, because, besides the reclamation of the SIN, there is talk of urban regeneration that will be decided by the private ones. 50 million are transferred to the actuator without, however, defining the modalities and the times, nor specifying the destinations and what this first phase really means. The same applies to ecoballs: I refer, that is, to the 150 million for the ecoballs of Impregilo, criminally scattered for Campania by a private subject, an international entrepreneurial society that, for the time being, has emerged free from the immense erorial damage and the disastrous environmental damage caused. It is 150 million for an extraordinary plan to be managed yes to the Region, but with a pre-commissiamento, that is, a threat of commissioning disposed to paragraph 6 of Article 2, because, if in thirty days this plan will not be realized, the central government will intervene. It is also decided to provide permanent safety in situ, without actually assessing what are the sites of the ecoballs and without specifying what would then be the management burden; permanent safety means, in fact, a permanent cost. Time and mode are not specified and, for reporting, reference is made to a ministerial decree to come. But let us return to the Expo, to this model which, only thanks to the rhetoric of the Government, which has mobilized a propaganda operation and a manipulation of extraordinary public opinion, has been sold as a positive operation. Instead it has been the biggest flop in the history of the universal exhibitions of the last fifty years, which leaves a disastrous budget hole, and it is definitely a big problem for those who stay and will have to put the money to come. 20 million admissions to public opinion and television were promised and, in order to get the big rows to the box office, who were audiences and were essentially demonstrating only disorganization - in Renzi's mind meant the great success of the Expo - they were sold at half prices and even gave themselves tickets; in order to reach that number, and did not care for the economic return. I mean, she had a party with other people's money. We know that the total cost is around 14 billion: at least 2.5 billion was spent on the event itself, while 1.5 billion was spent on the construction of the site, 960 million on the management of the event, 170 million on the purchase of land, which - we must remember - cost ten times more. However, the data are provisional, because there are also the extra cost disputes demanded by the companies that have worked. It is known that for the time being these costs amount to 29 million only with regard to the Italian pavilion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude, Senator Nugnes. If you wish, you can attach the text of your speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. Conclude, please. NUGNES (M5S). Then there are the reclamation costs, which amount to 72 million and were not foreseen. I will deliver the full text of my speech, Madam President, so that it is annexed. However, I would like to say one more thing. What certainly does not fit us is the coverage of these expenses, based on linear cuts and above all on a mugging that is done at the bottom for exodates. That's something you can't accept. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The question has been raised in the Commission and it has been said that it is true, but that the House will be provided for during the discussion of the law of stability.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u158	Please conclude, Senator Nugnes. He's finished his time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u159	NUGNES (M5S). So, it is once again the policy of the patches and the three cards. We cannot accept this kind of reasoning. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u160	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u161	Madam President, first of all I would like to express my solidarity, but also that of my colleagues in the League, to the majority senators, who - alas - will have to face the forty-fourth trust. We ask ourselves what is the limit of the endurance of the majority. I would remind my friends and fellow citizens that, when the question of trust was raised by the last government voted by the citizens, which I was proud to support as a representative of the majority, they were hurling at each other saying that it was yet another confidence on the part of the Berlusconi Government. Well, I'm supportive, and I'm addressing my PD colleagues in a special way, since we're at the 44th trust today, if I'm not mistaken. We've really crossed the line. Personally, I thought I saw the limit of parliamentary indecency with the Monti Government. But Monti was a technician and we were hiding behind the fact that, when his holiness Monti said what had to be done in Parliament, we had to obey. But we've seen worse with the Renzi government. This measure is also the plastic representation of the consideration that Renzi and his band have not only of Parliament, but also of local authorities and, in more general terms, of democracy. Renzi and his gang don't give a damn about democracy. If that were not the case, this government would not have promoted the so-called Delrio law, which is a scumbag and is proving to be a failure. That too is the plastic representation of Renzi's political end and his gang: weakening and annihilating local power. But, even more, what does the charlatan of Florence want to do Machiavellinaly? He wants the adoption of this omnibus measure. Madam President, let us try to do a scientific reason and I can also say that I have done some scientific research on the territorial information system. If on the map of our country we marked the distribution of the resources that are provided with the measure under consideration - as was done in London at the time, in order to identify the fountains through which smallpox spread - we would have exactly the representation of the places where the next election campaign will take place. But I am not surprised by that. I am not surprised by this Government which, in a very serene way, cancels the objective law with which I, who am a gullible and dreamer, agreed, because I was promised that the Code of Procurement would probably be reformed. Now I know where the catch is. I didn't want to believe it. If it is true, as it is true, that one of the fundamental strategic works, of national importance for our country, is the sway of Florence, you can understand what death we must die of. The boy, Mr. Leopoldo, is not stupid and he made the reasoning that it was best to put immediately inside the sway of Florence because the times will be gritty. Times are getting gloomy because our country, Madam President, is hungry for infrastructure. There's little money in here, and the light at the end of the tunnel is all you see. There may indeed be a light at the end of the tunnel, but it is millions and millions of years away of light and therefore, in fact, there is no end. It is enough to go among the people - I am referring to my territory - and this appears very clear. But the thing that surprises us most and leaves us even today speechless is the political attitude, the political mission of this Government, which - I repeat because I want it to remain in the act - is not recognized by a popular vote. Affixing the forty - fourth trust leaves us bewildered. I repeat: up to now 44 trusts have been placed and we have not finished, because someone has remembered that the reform of the RAI must still be examined. We saw what happened this morning: millions and millions of euros in black in RAI procurement. I would not exclude the imposition of confidence even during the examination of the RAI reform. One thing is certain: I shall return to this House the amendments that I withdrew from the Commission, because there were no opinions from the Budget Commission, and we will also see where we are going to die. The same applies to the reform of the procurement code. And I have to beat myself up because I was a gullible guy. I believed in Parliament's good intentions, and I also put my face on it with my colleagues, saying that the Commission had done a good job. In fact, the Commission has done a good job, but the problem is another one: we are talking about a delegation that we must give to the Government, which has already laid its hands on us and is coming out a bloodbath also for the delegation law on procurement. This country, Madam President, is hungry for certainty about the issue of the procurement code. Firstly, Europe is asking us to do so because we are archaic and have a list of prescriptions that only we want and can afford. We are procedurally prediluvian and I wonder what will happen now, because we will no longer have clear procedures on the objective law because in fact, even if not officially, it is no longer there, so we will go into ordinary procedure. And I wonder what we're gonna do with the contracts. I am convinced, however, that there is bad faith behind all this. It is clear that there is bad faith on the part of the Government that in this country wants to create the conditions for nothing to go on, to have the opportunity to get hands on resources and works that it wants to do. That's pretty clear to me. I believe that this attitude, at the end of the day, leads to very little. It will certainly lead to a failure of the country because we pay in front of our fellow Europeans, we pay before the whole of Europe an inefficient system from the administrative point of view. So great can be the excellence of the individual and of the enterprise and so is the deficit of the state, instead, on the political-administrative level. And this umpteenth confidence, this attitude on the part of the government is its plastic representation. I'm also personally concerned. I stand in the opposition and perhaps the opposition is easier to say that it is not okay. But I am also very sorry for my colleagues in the majority, some of whom are serious - there are and have my deep respect and often talk to them - because you also have to vote for this measure. A man must also have his dignity. You cannot have an attitude of microphones off and then not have the balls - let me say - do not have the determination to fight against a system that is destroying politics and democracy within our country. This is very worrying, and I say this not for a party and personal matter, but for the sake of politics. Says someone who did the local administrator. What interests me most is the well-being of the citizens. And our mission is that things work. Here in Parliament, where it is up to us to legislate, we continue to have such a unique attitude in Europe, so those who vote for this trust will have to take responsibility for failure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u162	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u165	AMATI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Max Fanelli has stated that acting indifferently in the face of the pain of the terminally ill, their families and the tens of thousands of people who have signed the bill on the end of life, cannot be considered an option but it is a duty. In these situations, in the face of so many demands, it is the responsibility of the State to discuss, not to ignore. The first and only response of those who legislate must focus on the "When" not on the "If." We all know that 260 proposals for popular initiatives have been submitted since 1979 and few of them, three, have come to the end and only 53% have come to the Commission. Now, I believe that on the issue of the end of life we need a response of dignity on the part of this House. We have Senators Palermo and Manconi's bill. Senator Palermo's proposal takes up exactly the bill of popular initiative. I believe that from now on all those who share the need for dignity for those who, like Fanelli, are in extremely serious conditions can urge the House to a strong response so that we can at least begin to debate. [[Applause from Senators The Judge and Morra.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u168	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Government publicly here and, with it, the Emilia-Romagna Region for the very important recognition that Parma, my city, has had with the UNESCO designation as a Creative City for gastronomy. [[Comments of Senator Montevecchi.]] This is an important recognition because the creative city is a network divided into seven areas: music, literature, folk, design, media art, gastronomy and cinema. It was established by UNESCO in 2004 with the aim of creating an international platform based on the socialisation of experiences and on the strength of cultural creativity between cities able to support and make cultural creativity an essential element for its economic development, offering local operators an international platform to channel the creative energy of their cities and thus laying the foundations for projecting local experiences in a global context, with the aim of promoting the culture industry. Cities designated as creative cities can share their experiences and support each other, enhancing their capacities and increasing the presence of their cultural products on national and international markets. This is the first time that an Italian city has obtained this prestigious international recognition in this area. It is a very important opportunity because it creates conditions of knowledge of the whole food valley and we know what the importance of the agro-food industry throughout the country is. This initiative - which, I repeat, has seen a decisive contribution from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Emilia-Romagna Region - is an initiative of which my city should be proud and I wish to acknowledge here to the Government of what has been done.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u171	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, I learn from a camaraderie that the Consorzio Nuovo CARA Mineo, whose object would be inspired by the principles of mutuality and social solidarity as well as respect for the individual, consists of the following persons: Zurlo Cosimo, Ferraro Rocco, Roccuzzo Roberto, Novello Antonino and Aceto Camillo. From press reports, I read that the same subjects were at the center of some judicial investigations. With reference to Cosimo Zurlo, e.g., the Republic in June wrote: On 9 February 2010, the employee of the company Auxilium was referred to the Bari judicial authority for non-compliance with public supply contracts and fraud in public supplies, in competition with Pietro Chiorazzo. As for Rocco Ferraro, apart from having held the office of chairman of the board of directors of the consortium Sol. Calatino instead of Paolo Ragusa, press reports say he was legal representative of San Francesco cooperative society, another associate of the consortium Sol. Calatino, whose fate we all know well. On Roccuzzo, always press bodies, they write that they were sentenced by the tribunal of Modica to three months imprisonment for disturbing freedom of charms, as well as to have been advisor to the Sisyphus Consortium. As for Antonino Novello, on the other hand, seems to have been tried for scam and auction disturbance, but probably the crime has been prescribed. Finally, on Camillo Aceto, the Republic has always written textual words: "arrested in 2003 because he is held responsible for the troubled freedom of the charms, fraud in public supplies, association for delinquere, material falsehood, ideological falsehood committed by the private in public act, use of false act, fraud in the exercise of the trade, sale of food not genuine." I wonder, then: if this is the new company, doesn't the New Consortium risk being involved in new scandals? Madam President, I have put a question to ask whether Minister Alfano wants to call for monitoring and verification, given the questionable company composition of the new consortium CARA Mineo. I look forward to a serious and swift response. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u172	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-553.ana.u173	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.51 a.m.
