ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u4	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1880, 746, 760, 1570, 1795, 1815, 1823, 1841 and 1855. I recall that during yesterday's sitting the examination of the articles of the bill n. 1880 was completed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u11	BONFRISCO (CRI). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, over the years the public broadcasting service has profoundly changed its original nature: as an instrument to inform citizens by effective and effective means of disseminating literacy for the improvement of the socio-economic conditions of the country, it has become something else. The progressive liberalization of the ether, with the necessary and consequent multiplication of the information and cultural broadcasting offer, that has seen the birth of new publishing groups in direct competition with each other and with the then monopolist RAI, the development of the Internet from the nineties and the consequent diffusion of personal computers and many other devices of telematic connection, the ease of access and interconnection of the information systems, have greatly expanded the possibilities of the individual to pack his daily schedule both for information, and, above all, for recreational-recreational and cultural character. This has opened the door to the emergence of a new social awareness of the right to information, and therefore to the progressive erosion of that original perimeter of the functions of the public broadcasting service, in favour of an increasing freedom of choice on the part of the citizen. Cultural production and therefore need to accompany the country in the technological challenge of which it can be protagonist, also today using that Juncker plan that is implemented in our economic system by the promotion bank, that patient investor, such as the Deposit and Loan Fund, that can play a great role. Our commitment is to redefine the canon which, as demonstrated by the sound rejection of Article 4, is a subject that can and must be discussed, and not only in a delegation. We have proposed, and not only provocatively, that we should abolish it in order not to burden citizens further with the cost of a service which has not yet clarified whether it is a real public service or whether it believes it can be on the market, by seeking resources on that financial market and on the more traditional one of advertising. Otherwise, Mr. Undersecretary, what is the use of the proposed amendment on the new role of issuer entrusted to RAI, if not to circumvent the rule on the roof to the salary of managers? That's our suspicion. However, we do not care about the number of advisors and we understand the governance needs of a complex company such as RAI and the right of the Government-shareholder to express an address in choosing the most appropriate personalities, or at least so we hope. However, we see how Parliament is usurped with the right to see plurality guaranteed and implemented in such a special company for democracy. Even to us, Senators Conservatives, Italian Reformists, it seems that the dual system can meet the requirements of that guarantee of plurality for which perhaps not even Parliament is more sufficient. To whom, therefore, do we entrust this delicate and fundamental role, if not to a system of rules necessary and to the valorization of the great heritage that RAI has been able to build over the years through professionalism capable of producing cultural content and information useful and valuable for the growth of the country and for the promotion of the Italian citizen? The RAI for Italians, and not for parties, is a RAI with a governance based on the best management of resources, capable of enhancing professionalism without confusing the island of famous people with the public service mission. This is the RAI that must accompany the cultural and technological development of the country. However, there are no visible traces of this in the reform that we would like to vote on this morning. On the contrary, there are very extensive delegations to a confused Government, whose President-in-Office, only a few years ago, was looking for an epochal reform that, however, could not be called "Gasparri" (Gasparri). As you can see it's still called Gasparri and you can't and above all you can't do anything about it. This reform has nothing to do with Article 21 of the Constitution, it does not guarantee any freedom but will continue to guarantee batching, even economic duopoly, and will continue to do so from the pockets of the Italians who, even changing channels, will not exercise any option of freedom. To that citizen who pays and does not decide, we conservatives and reformists dedicate our vote against. Alongside all this, alongside the continuous attention to the civil and uncivilized reality of our time, even that with its tragic emblems, we ask for more attention. As we read in the review of a famous book by Sergio Zavoli "The part in the shadows" is a part in the shadows of the country that is not represented by anyone, especially in the information system. You could have asked Sergio Zavoli to prepare a reform project for the unfortunate time we live in; he would have done it with greater modernity. Instead, you preferred a creature without breath and with a fixed gaze, immobile within an economic and unproductive understanding for the country. I would like to thank you, Mr President, for, in putting the question of the legitimacy of a Supervisory Committee on RAI, where that principle of representativeness must always be guaranteed, I know that you will work to achieve at least this minimum result. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u14	DE PIN (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the RAI, the country's most important cultural industry with its 12,000 employees, more than 15,000 external collaborators, a company that competes on par in Europe with Germany, Great Britain, Nordic countries for quality and share, with the proposed reform becomes simply the political colony of the majority, the exclusive reserve of armchairs of the Government, the very emblem of the enslavement and the subjection of information to the diktats of the policy ofrenziana. Where has pluralism, independence as a guarantee of information gone, and objectivity which are necessary conditions for providing proper and proper public service to citizens? It is only a question of governance; the figure - perhaps too ministerial - of the Director-General disappears, which in reality only changes its name so that RAI may look more business than public service. In fact, the figure of the CEO is established, but the roles and functions are far from any good rule of company law. The managing director, in fact, is also a member of the board of directors and since the board of directors assumes functions of control is at the same time controlling and controlled. This is the first macroscopic anomaly. To think about it well, however, there is not really a real problem of a substantial nature because the board of directors is also the result of the exclusive and armored political designation, just like the managing director. Do we just want to call it an anomaly? Once it was feared for the lottification; today a real leap forward in the same sense has been made because we can speak with absolute certainty of expropriation of the public service to the sole advantage of the majority, stuff to make pale fears of lottification of the good old days. The appointment of members, reduced from nine to seven, is entirely of the exclusive relevance of the majority. Except for the employee representative, six out of seven are appointed by the majority because: two nominated by the Chamber of Deputies; two by the Senate and two by the Government; but if doubts arise about the remote possibility that a member of the board of directors can somehow bypass the political leader who appointed him, here is the real reform: three years of office instead of five, just to be clear about who commands. The political majority, which unfortunately and more and more often has neither correspondence nor coincidence with the electoral one, will take everything, without having to account for the oppositions and we know well how much information is worth today. In the face of the pluralism and the Constitutional Court, which already in the distant judgment n. 225 of 1974 proclaimed that the governing bodies of the RAI must not be constituted in such a way as to represent, even indirectly, exclusive or predominant expression of the Executive power, in order to guarantee the objectivity of the RAI. But it was a long time ago and the Constitutional Court hoped to be clear once and for all. But you know, constitutional principles don't have an easy life, especially with this government. As spokesperson for the Federation of Greens, I must strongly stigmatize yet another attempt - fortunately, at least this time, gone empty - to cash in spite of the quality of the services to the citizen, because the delegation to the Government for the discipline of the financing would have meant, in fact, that the Government could have established on its own the size of the RAI canon, giving rise to a real variable tax, in spite of all the constitutional limitations and without even consulting Parliament, which already today considers a mere appendix. It is a surreptitious and clearly unconstitutional operation, aimed at constituting yet another treasure, or the patch good for all the current and future budget holes. This is because the promise to reduce taxes made to citizens must be maintained. Dear President-in-Office of the Council, we know, however, that yours is Pinocchio's land and you do not deny it. To be honest, the Group Grandi Autonomie e Libertà, of which I am a member, shared, in respect of political convictions even different, many of these requests, presenting numerous amendments to guarantee the citizen, in order to avoid at least the change of the board of directors at every change of parliamentary majority, but in vain. My Group has proposed that the CEO should come from a tern of names enunciated by the Assembly, to be then expressed and appointed by the board of directors, but this instance has not been accepted either. We would also have liked to clarify and definitively establish the nature and public role of RAI and impose the reduction of the fee through the transformation of this into a tax of purpose, with exemption for disadvantaged classes, but all this has fallen into nothing and the reform that has come out of the Commission contains certainly many new definitions to be sure of leaving absolutely unchanged the substance. Instead, it ensures the disappearance of the public service to the citizen, in order to transform it into pure and unconditional political servitude to the governments that are and will come. Also this time the citizen will serve the bitter abuse done under the umbrella, with an expropriated service and culturally impoverished to the detriment of the quality of information and its objectivity. Once again, the Renzi Government defines reforms as those irremediable losses of democratic quotas so important for the Republic, bartering deception with necessity and transforming the opposite sense of its actions with indisputable media skills. This reform, which proceeds in the direction of strengthening the powers of deception and media distortion of reality and also renounces to provide the minimum guarantees of political representation to oppositions, inevitably also plunges into the abyss of unconstitutionality. It will be our moral, political and personal responsibility if we allow yet another compression of citizens' rights. We will be pointed out as those who have not been able to prevent the dictatorship of information from being established, because it has not been done enough and because it is only a truce to the Renzi government's strategic plan to reject Article 4 of the draft law just yesterday in this House, thus removing the government's delegation on the variable size of the canon, because we would have ended up too soon under the caudine forks of the Constitutional Court. It will soon be re-proposed - you will see - in another form and perhaps under another name, to strengthen the catalog of the lies of this governmental group that certainly does not stop in front of a small leap of democracy. It is the whole design that must be demolished, because it constitutes irretrievable damage to the principles of representative democracy and freedom of expression, while supporting the cornerstones of the unscrupulous exercise of information as a fifth power. However, there is more, ladies and gentlemen, because just two days ago, when we were struggling in this House to counter the RAI's draft reform law, Minister Padoan, as Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, the majority shareholder of RAI, formally asked the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services to proceed with the appointment of the RAI's board of directors with the old rules, thanks to transitional rules previously approved by Parliament. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government has mocked us with no respect, for just as it proclaimed the overthrow of the Gasparri law, pummeling all the newspapers with the reform of the RAI, it urgently called for the renewal of the Board of Directors with the old rules to the good old Supervisory Committee. The last veils of institutional modesty have really fallen: we here to criticize, amend, patch up a bill until late at night and the government in the other rooms to divide armchairs with variable majorities of which it seems to have urgent need. It is an insult, an institutional offense, which nothing good makes us evoke, with such a derogatory government, which already shows what it is capable of in order to preserve power. In conclusion, I am obliged, having taken advantage of the spaces of intervention intended for the Group, to specify that with the necessary distinction, attributable to the various political and personal sensibilities represented, the Group Grandi Autonomie e Libertà, will vote against the measure under consideration and will certainly do the same.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u17	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday and today Tele Renzi was or should be born. In other words, there is a television that probably has no power supply, but it will still be black - even in shades of grey - for various reasons. First of all, the Prime Minister, as always, had access to the fireworks by saying that one of the fundamental reforms that he would carry out and to which he cared most, was precisely the reform of the RAI. He said that he would remove politics and parties from the RAI and that we would absolutely no longer consider the law that defined an obnoxious, that is, the so-called Gasparri law. We would never have considered the Gasparri law again and we would have done a reform, for free television, for pluralistic communication and for an independent RAI. The North League is certainly not going to vote on this measure, but you, ladies and gentlemen, are going to vote on a measure that is exactly the opposite and, indeed, is even more bankrupt than one might have thought or assumed. We already had the first signs in the Commission's examination that this was a wrong reform, because in almost all the hearings we held, listening to certain competent audits, there was a red light bulb of danger, which indicated to the government and to the majority that something was wrong. Even someone, detached from national politics, that is, the general director of the European Broadcasting Union, which represents more than a billion users, has pushed to say - you can find it written in his report, filed in the proceedings - that if our country had approved a reform with these contents, it would have been comparable to Bulgaria. Only we could think of doing such a thing! It has been a very heavy statement and it has not been made by me - which, as a political party, I might rightly not be taken into account - but by an authoritative European President, whom you like so much, who - I repeat - has given us a very heavy statement. At this point perhaps, as we had proposed to the Government, it would have been appropriate to make a serious reflection and not a split or a plea of ideas or anything else, in order to approach this reform, possibly important, through another method. Instead, in this case, the arrogance of Matteo Renzi, who knows no limits and borders, wanted to continue on this furrow and the results are evident, even worse than those that could be assumed. In fact, if this Tele Renzi was obscured, you did, since yesterday's amendment, on which the government was beaten, was not ours. It is not conceivable that the opposition will save this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You've done everything. Make a serious reflection and draw conclusions. Having said that, the thing that leaves you most dismayed - not only us, but I also believe the operators of the sector, journalists, the media and Italians themselves - is that we have not stopped to make a law that we do not share; we have gone further because, like it or not - and certainly the thing will like so much from my colleague Gasparri - Tuesday will be renewed for three years the Board of Directors of RAI precisely on the basis of the Gasparri law. Even an amendment has been approved during the examination of this draft reform law that we are going to approve in which it is said that the new Board of Directors of RAI will be renewed on the basis of the Gasparri law. We wonder whether it would perhaps have been better to take another path, which we had suggested to the Government, which has already been tested in this House and which has brought benefits. In this respect, I recall, for example, the important step that has been taken here in the Senate with the reform of the procurement code. On that occasion the Government had presented a text that, from a first reading, was very similar in the method to this reform of the RAI. We did not like that text and there was in that case the will, both of oppositions and of the majority, to put aside the original text, take a blank sheet and try again to rewrite with four hands with the Government a more serious, shared, concrete, real measure that was part of this world. The result was evident, because there was a large sharing. The operators of the sector - apart from those who are waiting for the usual brands, who have been wrong with us - have shared and, in our opinion, we have done a good job. This same work the North League wanted to do on this reform as well. During the preparatory work in the Commission, we tabled only fifty amendments, all of which were of substance, which were recorded off record by the rapporteur, but also by the representative of the Government, as amendments that could be taken into account. However, those amending proposals have not affected us and, at that point, as it is right that they should be in the political debate in this House and in the Commission, we have stiffened ourselves, given the rigidity of the government and, with harshness, the League is not afraid to show how hard it can be. We have tabled so many amendments, many of them of substance and some of them, we can certainly admit, obstructive trying to show the government the muscles too. At this point someone said that the League did the usual obstructionism, but this happened also for the other oppositions. We tried again to see if the government and the majority were prepared to reason and we did what was right: we withdrew over 600 amendments, Mr President, it is not a mystery, and it was a serious job. Even during the voting phase we did not do a rigid obstructionism or, as some may still define it, above the lines. We really tried to be strong. I would like to acknowledge Mr Ranucci, who has tried to be truly a glue between the opposition and the government, that he has really been busy. We have thus come to introduce into the measure something which will not change the substance of the reform as a whole, but which is at least a signal. I must say that the Undersecretary, even at times of obvious embarrassment over all this negotiation, has also tried to put his own. In conclusion, Mr President, I believe that this reform of the RAI constitutes the real failure of the current Government and Matteo Renzi, who continues to deceive the Italians of wanting to make reforms, of wanting a modern country, projected towards a more pluralistic Europe of his own, and instead does the worst of the worst. On Tuesday in the RAI Supervisory Board we should appoint the Management Board under the Gasparri Act, and I have to admit it: "aridate" Gasparri, which is anyway better than what you want to vote! The failure of Matteo Renzi - and his Government - is due to the fact that he cannot make reforms, because he does not know how to deal with oppositions; he does not even know how to manage the various sensibilities and souls within the Democratic Party, and in particular he is very able to deceive the Italians. However, Mr President - and I am really beginning to conclude - the Italians are beginning to understand. Renzi's reforms are a failure across the board. This RAI will go to the Chamber in September and then return to the Senate; we will work again and perhaps for Christmas we will find it under the tree, although we do not know well what kind of gift we will do in this case to the Italians. For the moment it is a failure on the whole line: Tele Renzi is switched off and obscured by the same PD. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u20	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we would have sincerely expected that, in the course of the debate that has accompanied this draft law in recent days, we could finally face, with calmness and a sense of responsibility, the real knots that are before us and any country that wants to put its hand in a serious reform of the public service. The reform has given rise to a debate whose echoes have also been heard in this House during the general debate. I am thinking, for example, of the intervention of Senator Zavoli, who once again wanted to try to take seriously the reasoning about the end, the mission of the public service. The fate of RAI, in fact, which should be dear to the whole country and to Parliament - because we are talking about the largest Italian cultural industry - is also a matter of the development of society, of democracy. Therefore, whoever wanted and intended to put their hands on a serious reform of the RAI should first of all investigate, and therefore seriously regulate what is the mission of the public service, in a time, President, in which, precisely because of the advent of new technologies and the many competitors on the market, a sort of almost widespread opinion has been created that the need for public service in this situation is now something that belongs to the past. From here, the same discussion also in our country on the necessary reform of the Gasparri law and on the norms on conflict of interest - great absent in our debate - has practically shifted on the crisis of representation of RAI and on the necessity or not of a public service still today. Instead, we believe that, precisely in a situation like that we live in our country and in Europe, in the presence of new technologies that present a strong problem of social inclusion (or because technically expensive or because they are difficult to use or because they do not materially reach all citizens), we need the public service even more. If there is more need for public service, it was not necessary to set up a draft law on RAI, pompously described as RAI reform, only on the issue of governance, but to investigate and make a strong relegitimacy operation of RAI and public service, giving back, also by statute, a real articulation to its mission, in such a complex situation from the point of view of competitors on the market, the new technologies and the problems of democracy that they pose. First of all, the issue of the relegitimacy of RAI and the public service had to be tackled with passion, linking it with the idea of clearly fixing the issues of the public service mission and the question of resources and governance, starting from a fundamental issue, that of the independence of the public service, closely linked to its mission and the problem of resources. It was necessary to use the best tools first of all to free RAI from the game of politics and lottification, which in all these years has ruined it and has questioned its legitimacy towards users citizens. When it is said that the canon is considered one of the most hateful taxes it is because there is a strong distance between citizens and RAI: precisely the game of politics, division and lottification have negatively influenced this close relationship between RAI and citizens. As usual, President Renzi's announcements seemed to go in the sense of finally putting in hand a reform that wanted to face the nodes and the challenge with contemporaryity, to arrive at a new relegitimacy of the public service. The slogan was "free RAI from parties," but instead we found ourselves with a bill, with a project, which first - I repeat - is not the reform of RAI, because it has not put in place the fundamental reasoning on giving the mission back to RAI and to public service, but has led to focus on governance. Once again, we were faced with the unveiling of the Venetian propaganda. What did the unveiling consist of? We started from a slogan, outside the RAI parties, but in reality we are with a model of governance that puts the RAI completely in the hands of the Government and the majority. How do we define the idea of a de facto CEO almost appointed, on the proposal of the assembly, then the principal shareholder and the Government? How do we want to define the list of the various members of the board of directors who, also given the electoral law, the Italicum, in the end will be, to a large extent (here is the majority vocation of the Premier), the expression of the majority? So, with this redesign of governance, we started from an operation that, in fact, consecrates a model that is not certainly dual but exactly opposite: a model of society for shares, a corporate model with a design that, once again, is centralist and that, in fact, puts the public service, and therefore RAI, not at the disposal of pluralism, that is, of the plural representation of the interests of society, but in the hands of the Government. Undersecretary Giacomelli explained, in his speeches, that RAI needs a streamlined management and that for this reason the dual system, of course, could not, in his opinion, work. We think, however, that RAI would need a much more complex reform. This is the intention which we will continue to pursue and which we have proposed and articulated with our amendments, because we believe that the new legitimacy of RAI and the public service should lie in the capacity to articulate pluralism and to give its representation. As far as we are concerned, the reference model is that of the Guarantee Board in which, at last, professionalism, experience and civil society become guarantors of the public service. The guarantee board should then have the legitimacy and therefore the appointment of the board of directors itself. In this way independence is articulated. The model that you are about to vote on today, on the other hand, I say this once again, violates the principle of independence and pluralism of information which is sacred and is not only constitutionally protected but also that indicated by Europe. You have chosen a model of public service which is certainly not the most widespread in Europe, but which we have been inspired by and inspired by the whole debate on the democratic information and public opinion of this country regarding the fate of the public service and RAI. We have been inspired by Article 21 of the Constitution. You, on the other hand, have been inspired by the Bulgarian model (we do not say so but we have also had hearings in the Commission), a model that actually puts RAI and information in the hands of the government and the majority. In all this you have also managed to make the masterpiece of starting this reform of governance and, at the same time, from Tuesday, you will continue to perpetuate the old model of appointment, because you will redo the appointments of the board of directors with the law Gasparri. The masterpiece is complete. Meanwhile, start the reform but continue to remain on the path of partitioning and batching which is exactly the opposite of pluralism. Certainly political pluralism must live but must also live the representation and capacity of RAI to be a voice of the great issues of the country. RAI and public service can and must be, as they have been in the past, a great tool for the development of the country, democracy and social cohesion. But in order to do this the principle of independence and pluralism cannot be sacrificed, once again, to a centralist and centralised vision that is informing all the so-called reforms that this Government, the Renzi Government, is pursuing. We do not surrender (this is only the first step) to this destiny that we want also for RAI. We have already had a success yesterday and you have had a setback with the elimination of the delegation contained in Article 4, which is no small thing. We will continue our fight together with so many associations and citizens to get citizens back to the centre of the system. Above all, we will continue our battle for the public service to be fully recognized as a common good, because Article 21 of the Constitution, as our constituent Fathers have taught us, protects freedom and pluralism and indicates only and only that way. The RAI can regain its strong legitimacy if it restores in the hands of citizens, plural representation, its destiny and does not place it once again in the hands of the Government. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u23	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE declares its support for this measure, but, as sincere friends have a duty to do, we point out that it is a highly critical support. We believe that RAI is a very important cultural institution, but also an important industrial company of our country, but it produces a particular product and fundamental for democracy, a product that has within it information and culture. Therefore, our approach is to certainly give this company an efficient governance, able to face the challenges of competition, but at the same time to represent the peculiarity I was talking about before. To make this concept more simple, I make it clear that the RAI industrial company is composed of two capitals: one economic and one financial and one democratic. These two capitals cannot be managed by the same entities, because economic and financial capital has rules, very clear objectives that must be pursued, because competition is wider and not only within a closed system; it is therefore right to give powers, autonomy and capacity for rapid movement. At the same time, however, we also have the problem of democratic capital and, while economic and industrial capital is rightly in the hands of the Government, the democratic capital of this company cannot be in the hands of the Government, but it must be in the hands of Parliament, as provided for in our Constitution. Hence the opportunity to have a more sophisticated and refined governance than that of a simple industrial company that produces bolts, cars and bald. We believe, however, that this specificity must be realized within criteria and rules that refer to our normal system, to our civil code, to our company code. It is not necessary to realize once again in this country something special to apply to a particular situation; therefore, the civil code, the company code that applies to all public limited companies in our country must also apply to RAI; of course, with the specificities of which I spoke before and therefore with the forecast within its statute of those elements (which to some extent can also be oriented by the law that concerns it) that characterize this particular peculiarity. The RAI is a company that must also be able to enjoy certain revenues and from this point of view, Mr President, representatives of the Government, we think that on the canon we must make serious reasoning. We cannot divide the users of the public broadcasting service between smart and stupid, between honest and dishonest; we must put in place a system of financing our public information and culture system, as is the RAI, through mechanisms that seriously recover the amount of evasion that exists today. To do what, Mr. President? To try to introduce a concept that is even more necessary today, at a time when many Italian families, who have in RAI a daily reference point and a daily need to improve their quality of life through entertainment, knowledge and information that is distributed, are not able to bear the cost of a canon, which from honest people pay, even if not wealthy, while others make smart and do not pay. We did not vote in favour of the deletion of the amendment regarding the delegation to the Government on the issue of the canon, but it is clear that there was a serious political problem there and that it was underestimated, in the parliamentary debate and in the positions that the rapporteur and the Government have taken on it. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in July 2014 we presented a proposal for a law on the new RAI governance, which had these contents within it. We did it in time, because we knew that we would arrive on 26 May, when the board of directors elected under the Gasparri law expired. Although we had tabled this proposal more than a year ago, it has crossed the line, it has been expected too much time. We do not understand why, in this country of ours, in this historical phase, in this Parliament, the measures must always be dealt with in haste, penalising the fundamental element of a law: the quality of the law that is proposed. These are the issues, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, on which we wanted more attention. Nevertheless, we think that through the parliamentary passages to the Chamber and the eventual return to the Senate - which we hope - we can define a better organization of the company, which leads to maintaining RAI within the normal industrial companies of our country, enables it to represent its specific characteristics and make them overcome - I want to say this in a formal forum like this - those grey areas of non-transparency, lack of rigour and the necessary refusal of contiguity with criminal environments. In particular, this last point is indispensable compared to a large public company that has made history and costume and has formed generations of Italians. We believe that the biggest investment a democratic country has to make is in its system of information and cultural training, where RAI is certainly an important protagonist. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u26	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the People's Area Group will vote in favour of this measure, knowing very well that this is the beginning of a reform of the RAI, on which we rely. Today we have focused on governance and on this the next steps will also determine the improvement of other situations that we have touched on in recent weeks. We therefore vote in favour of this first step, one of the first, on a reform which we consider to be absolutely important in our television service. We would like to thank the rapporteur and also the Undersecretary and, paraphrasing, one of the great sayings of Italian television: we have seen everything and more. We hope to reach the bottom by giving our Italian citizens a comprehensive reform of what is a reference point within the homes of all our citizens. Mr President, I would like to say that we will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u29	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary Giacomelli, if we were to tell what has happened over the last few days about the RAI affair and perhaps write a script - given that RAI is a major cultural industry - it would surely produce a text that is not credible. In fact, the downward twists that have taken place in this affair have for the umpteenth time deteriorated Parliament, the work of the rapporteur Ranucci, that of the Undersecretary Giacomelli, that of the Assembly, that of my Group, that of those who tried to influence a text that, in the end, will probably be a dead track, given the recent choices. It would be, therefore, as I said, a very unbelievable text; it becomes credible only because the Italians learned to know Renzi, a man who uses the laws and resources of the country to make comfortable exchanges to his political projects. As it has been defined by some newspaper, it is a "House of cards de' noantri", always to remain in the theme of fiction. What the public service needed to resurrect from death, which was probably sanctioned in 2004, with a law bearing the name of one of the parties to the pact with Renzi, were basically three things: independence, the good repute of the members of the board of directors and their competence. These were the three points on which I have committed myself and on which I have also found some shores (in this regard, indeed, I thank the rapporteur, Mr Ranucci, for his attention). But I must denounce the fact that these three principles - of which something has passed into the text - have actually been ignored in their fundamental core, which was, in fact, independence. We wanted a public service like what we learned about when we were children; we all have a certain age and we knew the RAI that really helped build a cultural aspect of our nation. After twenty years of commercial television and inciuci (because it has always lacked a law on conflict of interests), after twenty years of shows and soubrette, RAI has been slowly dragged into a vortex that has destroyed all its best aspects and has saddened the good part that was in the public service, that there is still, but that lies in the underscale; because in today's RAI they make career the mediocre; because today's RAI is the maximum of the possible and imaginable lotization. To do this, it needed someone who had little face, but so much language and desire to fulfill certain commitments. Let's see it's so from so many things, at all levels. RAI is a giant company that needs to get old and that is why we proposed a slender board of directors. But the operation and agility of the board of directors is directly proportional to its independence. In this House, one of the basic amendments we proposed was not voted on, the one aimed at making the appointments of the members of the Management Board on the basis of requirements that would eliminate the revolving doors between politics and RAI, at all levels. Believe me: it's a daily matter to see fucked politicians looking for places as editor-in-chief or deputy editor-in-chief to come up. You should at least have voted on the only point that would have freed the RAI, excluding from the possibility of being appointed on the board of directors elected politicians at all levels and, from the post of CEO, members of the Government (even if something has passed) or members of party secretariats. It is the RAI that we wanted and that will never come, because these three years of board of directors that the Premier has imposed us will be the song of the swan for public service. In three years, the generalist TV will begin - and it has already begun - an inevitable decline, which will lead to death. In these three years RAI would need a complete revolution. But in order to make this revolution, we would have needed competence, another point on which we have spent. There too something has passed, but also competence without independence perhaps does not work, and I must say that it certainly works more than choosing to restore this system of Gasparri law, which I mentioned today, even if I did not want to. The competence is that which allows a journalist to really do his job and to contribute to the information of the country, because a competent journalist does not want to lose face (and I do not say this, but many journalists have said it, even important figures passed for RAI). A journalist who is not the ghost writer of some politician does his job: a director, an author, a technician who does his job with competence helps to give the country a real wealth. The professionalism that could be found in this work in RAI, and that still exists, are those of those who still believe it, because to do the work of the journalist and to make television you fall in love: you die inside when you see that you can not be realized as authors, technicians and journalists and slowly you abandon also the enthusiasm to contribute to the evolution of a country. We should have thought of these profiles in the RAI, these people and this great treasure that Italy has and is trading for a little 'political power. Why can't RAI today be a proud mirror of what it was? Because today there is this political class: even in the past, in fact, it has been partitioned, but there was still pride and the need to have great skills and great good repute. In the RAI Supervisory Committee we worked two years on everything that was the mission, the first topic we should have talked about, even before governance, and we all agreed. I have also agreed with so many of you on many points that have not passed into this bill. However, I think that we will never be able to get out of the nightmare of a totally enslaved information system, and I am talking not only about RAI, but also about Mediaset and Sky: in this market, in the end, we have to confront politics by force, because it has deeply invaded both the public service and the market; many competitors have done it, first of all Berlusconi, that we remember for years. This has killed the public service, I repeat, turning it into a sloppy breast to which many friends, friends of friends, friends of politicians and politicians themselves have attached themselves. We would like a public service that does not see the money between Tinni Andreatta's " happy five "; we would like to see a public service that does not ask precarious workers, inside and outside, to make a 10 percent discount in VAT to be a programmer in a broadcast. It is clear that with these premises we do not go anywhere, then faced with leaders and journalists who also take hundreds of thousands of euros a year, to the continuous sedimentation of directors-general after directors-general, each of whom brought his own. They built an elephantic system, an archipelago of pirates where everyone has their own small island. In order to intervene in this system, we needed a dry decision, we needed to finally cut off this link, as in all public services in other European countries, but it is necessary. Today, in fact, a politician with a service at the TG obtains a media overexposition, as has been denounced several times. Think about how information works in Italy, when Renzi made the announcement that it would change RAI: there were millions of journalists, it passed on all RAI channels. Think of yesterday, when we have finished voting, and even today, that we are here to give the final vote to the reform of public service governance, what deafening silence there is. Look at the stands: they are almost empty, there are few journalists, no one talks about them. We really tried to hack, but we couldn't. The only consolation is that this law will end up on a dead track and that the board of directors elected next Tuesday will last three years. We could have elected it in September and we would have had at least the chance to evaluate all the profiles, because now it is on the profiles that we will play the only possible game, the only battle that still can perhaps cheer up or allow the survival of the public service, with high profile names, certainly not those that are shooting now (I heard names like that of Todini). We want people who have made television, who know it, people who are capable, otherwise we will never get out of it. The only consolation, as I said, is that this board of directors, which will last three years, will survive the end of this legislature and this Assembly will not see the change, but it will probably see a new Assembly, in which the majority of the 5 Star Movement I guarantee you that it will cancel and propose its resolution. Perhaps then we will really have an independent public service, a public service in which we will be able to really inform the citizens and not this monster, this blob, just to quote a figure dear to television, that everything encompasses, that produces nothing, if not disinformation, but an even more Servant people, even more uninformed, even more in the grip of the delusions of a Premier, that we really hope will vanish as soon as possible and stop demeaning this Parliament that, even when trying to work, is regularly denied. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u32	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many things could be said and many of them have been said, but obviously the time limits and also the effort of the debate require a summary. On the substantive level, what happened was that the President of the Council Renzi made numerous statements also in television broadcasts, including an interview with Lucia Annunziata, which among other things I thank for what he wrote on the blog of the "Huffington Post", recognizing the substantial victory of our political side. It had been, the transmission of the Annunziata, one of those gyms where the President of the Council had exercised himself to say that a law such as the one in force was ignoble, unsuitable for regular events of content, quality and culture; but I want to save attitudes of maramaldo towards Renzi, that being young will learn that life is a bit more complicated than he imagines and that therefore mediation and confrontation are necessary and that everyone in life has reported victories and defeats: even I happened to win and lose, so I have a little experience of a normal life, and Renzi will learn too. The law in force applies, which is a good law. I have said several times, and I have no reason to dwell here, that the law in force is in accordance with the judgments of the Constitutional Court, which I have here with me and which I read and reread, which speak of the role of Parliament, the role of the Supervisory Commission. Then, if there is a degeneration in the division of chief editors or deputy directors, that is an evil that must be fought, but other is if Parliament, in its democratic sovereignty, expresses a board of directors. For those who do not know it, Parliament elects members of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The president of the Authority for Communications Guarantees, which is a supreme guarantee entity, which has important powers to enforce the par condice, to impose fines and sanctions, is appointed by the Government and becomes such if the Telecommunications Commissions (ours in the Senate is transport and communications) express with two thirds their liking. Thus was born the rule on the President of Warranty, which we did not write when we launched my reform of the RAI, but we left it to Parliament and Parliament, in the discussion, proposed to do for the president to RAI what was done for the president of the Authority for Communications Warranties; that on the AGCOM is a law that was born in the period of the Prodi and surrounding governments, so the inspiring source was a law that was brought back within RAI to have a presidency of Warranty. I would like to thank Mr Giacomelli for his wisdom - although I do not wish to praise him too much in order not to cause problems in political life - which, unlike the President-in-Office of the Council who, even for the youngest age, has made Rodomonteschi proclamations, has listened to the Commission, has defended his positions in the Commission and in this House, but on some aspects he has accepted the demands of the parliamentary debate. So much so that we will not vote on this bill because we are opposed to the excess powers of the CEO, because we believe it contains a series of errors, and then it arrives a little 'forked to the examination of the Chamber for the vote yesterday that rejected Article 4, for some inconsistencies that there are and give powers as CEO to the CEO, if this bill is approved. The general manager will be requalified, therefore, who will be appointed by the law in force; however, while the managing director will have to be on the board of directors, the current general manager, who will be appointed in the next few days, is not there. I leave it to my colleagues in the House the freedom to pee on the mistakes and horrors of this bill, which was brought to the approval today to try to soothe the blow of the application of the Gasparri law. So they can say: we apply the current law n. 112 of 2004, but we have a great reform in progress. It is the reform of an article of the current law. I want to remember that, colleagues. The law we did in 2004 will remain in force. The antitrust rules, the protection of minors, the integrated communications system (SIC) are the rest of that law, which is made up of 27 articles. We're maybe modifying one here. When the House approves it, then it will return to the Senate and there will be time to discuss it again. Yesterday I allowed myself to point out to the rapporteur, Mr Ranucci - I hope we are all in a relationship of mutual respect - that one cannot say that one can accept the agenda that talks about the dual system, which is quite different. I'm not reopening the discussion. I thank Senator Fornaro who had the intellectual honesty to admit that he proposed another thesis. So, in terms of courtesy, it can be said that this is a legitimate thesis. Of course it's legitimate. All the arguments are legitimate, but there is the Constitutional Court in a nutshell. Fornaro's thesis, which I do not agree with, is not totally unconstitutional; but, Senator Fornaro, look for future reflections at the judgments and the Court imposes a relationship with Parliament. Friends and colleagues, a link with democracy and popular sovereignty is not an ignoble thing; otherwise we ourselves delegitimize ourselves and, as far as delegitimization of politics is concerned, it seems to me that there are already a lot of them. Many arguments are evoked. I would like to thank the President of the Republic, Mattarella, who I did not vote for reasons of political leadership, but whom I know for a long parliamentary visit. I am sure that the fact that there have been no decree-laws, votes of confidence on this matter and that, therefore, there has been a respect for the parliamentary dynamic is not only due to the awareness that the Government has matured, but also to the fact that the Presidency of the Republic - I am sure - is aware that this is more parliamentary matter than others. It is good, therefore, for this debate to proceed in this way and I believe that proper and institutional attention to the rules has been without interference but with the awareness of those who have a long experience. I would also like to thank Senator Buemi who, as co-rapporteur, said and reiterated some issues in the relationship between Parliament and judgments today. I don't turn the knife into the plague because I'm not going to exploit it. I also want to defend RAI and public service, which in recent years I have defended more than certain alleged apologists. I defended RAI when they took away 150 million euros. I remind you of the Renzi Government that the canon - whether it pleases or not - is very hated by Italians, but it is a tax of purpose and to have stolen a part of that money for other policies is a mistake. There is a dispute that RAI has done, will continue and we will see how it will end. Undersecretary Giacomelli, I say this because the canon will continue to be discussed in the Chamber since article 4 will have to be resumed. We have also discussed that in the Commission in a positive and serene way, also with regard to the role of local broadcasting, dear to so many of us. Undersecretary Giacomelli also has a personal and direct experience. Beware of certain schematisms too! I read today a ridiculous interview of RAI Councilwoman Tobagi who is in violation of the Gasparri law, thanks to which she made the councilwoman. If you didn't like the law, you could give up your election by Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] President Grasso, there has been a lot of discussion about last names these days. I respect the surnames that mark Italian history, but sometimes not enough a surname neither in Palermo nor RAI to have a great ability. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I close it here to avoid misunderstandings and misunderstandings. Even those who say they want RAI like the BBC answer: it's good that RAI is RAI and it's not the BBC. These days the BBC dismisses 1,000 people for lack of revenue and listening crises. The BBC is a beautiful historical model, but it fires 1,000 people. Type in on your iPad: "BBC layoffs" and you will find the news. The RAI, for beautiful, ugly, antipathic or nice (I am the critic many times), has instead called a competition to hire 100 journalists with transparent procedures (out of 4,000 young people participated in 3,000, many obviously excluded). So, for God's sake, the BBC is beautiful, but it fires; while here, in the end, there is a balance, even in the imperfection of this world. Mr President, we will vote against this draft law, because we believe that the role of the CEO is excessive and that there are a number of mistakes that we will see in the House of Deputies. In conclusion, I would also like to point out that there is a reading of the days just passed. I leave out the episode of the day before yesterday, relating to events of justice, which I believe have caused many sufferings and discussions within the Democratic Party. I believe that that vote on the judicial case has been dictated to the left more by political necessity than by undiscovered guaranteeing. We have made our judgments on that matter transparently. Yesterday, a debate at the eternal Congress of the Democratic Party (which is not a matter for us) allowed some results in the Chamber and the reading of today's newspapers is quite clear. I want to say to the Government - Undersecretary Giacomelli, in this case the competence is not his, but of the Executive - that we do not go to propose pacts or exchanges. We have worked and worked on RAI events in the light of the sun and we have had exchanges in the Commission by tabling amendments that have both been adopted and rejected, as is the normality of democracy. We want to say that, on some rules, it is not with the Seventh Day Adventists that the great reforms that are needed by this country will be made. Those guys are gonna crash! We too have sometimes tried to lengthen our lives with the parliamentary passage of the moment, but this does not go far. In any case, we will talk about this in September when we address the major issues related to the reform of the Constitution and electoral law. They will say that the electoral law has been passed, but we will have to discuss it. These issues do not impose secret pacts, but a transparent debate like what we are doing on the public radio and television service, where even those who think they have numbers and a majority actually, one day yes and the other pure, come out with some dents. We'll see what happens to the bill that rephrases an article in the so-called Gasparri law. The political fact that emerged in these days is not so much that of the approval of a law and its passage to the Chamber of Deputies (even in that forum we will be critical), but that of the government that does not have the numbers to be able to face decisive evidence. If you have limped on a virtual law for now, let alone what can happen on other topics. We do not hold hands to anyone and defend our ideas: we have always wanted to overcome bicameralism and reform the institutions and we will continue to say ours; those who pretend to move forward with some acquisition of the last moment, with some complicity or with the spirit of survival of those who see the lengthening of the legislature as the only political program they can have, do not go far. Dear President Renzi, I think you need to reduce your expectations. As for the other thousand polemics, I even read on Twitter that a senator did not sleep last night because he heard too many times the name Gasparri. Senator, sleep quietly, Gasparri law is a good law. For this reason, we will not vote for a bad attempt to change a part of it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u35	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, rapporteur, colleagues, the subject we are dealing with has a very close connection with the quality of our democracy. Television and the media produce images and in the collective imagination there is the hidden and shared memory of a people and therefore its conscience, its identity and its material and moral constitution. The media, including the network, build what is called mainstream, i.e. dominant culture. What doesn't appear in our mobile devices - tablets, smartphones and televisions - simply doesn't exist. Instead, what passes through it creates images, strong emotional engagements, behaviors and canons and, therefore, becomes public opinion, which is the subject that nourishes democracy. As Vincenzo Cerami wrote a short time ago, RAI must ask itself whether its civil and public function is compatible with the market, claiming that he believed it, because making good programs is good for both the market and public ethics. The relaunch of the RAI is a fundamental part of the relaunch of the country. It can bring with it an added value for our moral, economic growth and for the strengthening of a strategic sector, also from the employment point of view, that of our industry linked to technological innovation, to the new digital media, to the audiovisual. RAI will have to be a decisive factor to overcome the challenge of internationalization, to convey in the world that story of Italy, which is the suggestion that drives the success of export related to Made in Italy. The RAI must finally be fully aware that it has the enormous task, all the more important at this time, to help rethink a new European and Euro-Mediterranean culture. The link between RAI and Italian society has been and continues to be strong and is due to the ability, in the decades immediately following the Second World War, to carry out a function of modernization, advancement and social inclusion. This is again the meaning of the challenge: to give a voice to society, at the time of the radical crisis of the representation of the intermediate bodies and at the time of the fragmentation and vertical crisis of democratic institutions; to promote civil and cultural growth, social cohesion and participation; to make information with as broad and objective a view as possible and, therefore, for this very reason, critical of the changing world, starting from two decisive words, such as pluralism and impartiality, which President Ciampi and President Napolitano have repeatedly recalled during their mandates; to be an instrument of citizenship. In all this there is the mission, today even more than yesterday, of the public service. Today we want to strongly reaffirm, in the midst of a tumultuous and incessant digital revolution, marked by web 2.0 and interactivity, the reasons and the need for public service, public policies in the complex system of digital communication, to rebalance the failures and distorting effects of the market and to stem dominant positions. RAI must stand in the market by distinguishing itself, producing discontinuities and its own strong and recognizable identity. This is what we are discussing today and nothing else, because rewriting the governance of RAI means rethinking it from its foundations. There is a reason why RAI, in the last fifteen years, despite high ratings, has lost legitimacy, credibility and social recognition. This has happened because the lottification has been passed on by pluralism and has distorted the company, mortifying its potential, paralyzing it in the mix and in the daily negotiation with politics. This degeneration has its culprit in current governance. There is a distorted role of the Supervisory Committee today, which we want to change, because as it is it appoints and controls the Board of Directors, fueling conflicts of interest, rents of position for the sub-currents of parties and a degenerative practice that we want to cancel, because this is not how Parliament's role in relation to RAI and the public service is safeguarded. On the contrary, these degenerative practices delegitimize Parliament and kill the public service. RAI will win its challenge by innovative, experimenting and putting at the center of all quality, languages, content and product. At the time of Netflix, of the great players of globalized on demand platforms, the public service will succeed finding the courage to change and to transform from what it is today, that is, a Broadcaster, that offers an equal product for everyone, to what we want is an average company, with many products, for many different platforms. This means making a revolution, abandoning bureaucratic pastimes, focusing on the industrial vocation and on an enterprise that competes internationally. This is the sense of a strong reform, also on the organizational level, of a separation between a board of directors that we want renewed, reduced and participated - with the intervention of the same representative of the workers - that directs, and a head company, the managing director, that decides taking responsibility. All this means having efficiency and operational effectiveness, enhanced functions in line with a clear legal nature, powers that add autonomy and independence and do not harm, President, the role of primacy of the Parliament sanctioned by the decisions of the Consulta, which is expressed through the board of directors, whose majority is identified by the Chamber and Senate classrooms, a board of directors that appoints the managing director and can revoke it. The law that we are about to vote on finds its balance and balance on this point between the prerogatives of the shareholder and those of Parliament, which is confirmed as the primary reference. There is a separation between the level of political and management direction, reinforced by the introduction of transparency and quality rules in the selection of summits, because there is a link between the public value of choices and independence and authoritativeness: this also applies, of course, to the reform that we want to make and that we will make of the financing and the canon, to give the company certainty, autonomy and strategic stability. Similarly, Mr President, it is right to deal with the financing of local broadcasters which, as Enzo Cheli pointed out a few days ago, play a fundamental role in public service in the territory. Here, the one made today on the reform of governance is the first step of an overall path: renewal of the summits and reformation of the company go together, we are seeing it in these hours. Moreover, just a few months after the renewal of the concession, there is the strategic theme for us of the writing of a new single text, of that code of crossmedia convergence foreshadowed several times by the Undersecretary Giacomelli, always maintaining the protagonism of Parliament, as has been done in recent weeks, in a constructive dialogue, which we have always sought, but also having a public confrontation and participated, making this theme live in society. The goal is to close one failed season and open another. I want to tell Senator Gasparri that we will do everything we can to ensure that this legislature puts into the attic rules that are old, inadequate and ineffective, that no one will regret. [[Applause from the PD Group]] What we want to do is to give RAI the strength to erase the shame of having indulged, in a time that we remember well, because it is still a wound not healed, authoritarian diktat, hunting professionals like Enzo Biagi, who have so much given our country, rei to exercise the ethics of responsibility, beliefs, freedom of ethics. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Today we strongly demonstrate that the RAI is at the heart of the political agenda, which is also a constitutional and social reform, a thread to reconnect a pact of trust with the citizens, to regain ground. Speaking of television, Sergio Zavoli a while ago feared the risk that this instrument would be flooded with an abnormal wave, capable of overwhelming with the alphabet of fear our weak and infragilite society. That is why we are voting today to prevent this from happening. We in the Democratic Party will vote with conviction on this measure because it is a step to find again, through a renewed RAI, strength, shared identity and the place of Italy in the world. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u37	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u38	MINEO (PD). Mr President, Senators, I have worked in RAI for 35 years. I met journalists, technicians, employees who didn't look at the clock and did more than was required, not for glory but because they believed that the public service was worth it. I knew leaders who had not become such for party merits, and others who moved, yes, in the spirits of the lottification, but showed that they had at heart the company and the mission that was called to absolve. I have worked in RAI for thirty-five years and I know that enslavement to the Government is the worst lottery, which carries with it the spoil system, which prevents the company from planning, updating, relaunching its mission and putting into operation the consequent industrial policies. I know the RAI and I know that government verticalization can coexist with the association; it can leave the opposition more available the choice of a president or the right to concert the nominations of directors of a news, thus making perfect the taking of parties on the company. The draft law that we are called to vote transforms the general manager, today chosen by the Government, into CEO, and makes him enter fully into the board of directors; he grants the responsible opposition the choice of the President, plunders the board of directors, maintains the Supervisory Board, in addition to AGCOM of course. How many men of government and party on the head of every single executive, every single professional RAI needs a true reform. In the last quarter of the century it has adapted to the logic of public-private duopoly RAI-Mediaset; it has grown too much, counting to be guaranteed, as a public leg of duopoly; it has innovated little; it has underestimated the innovative force of Sky, and now RAI is the weakest link in the chain of television networks, those that rake the bulk of advertising and divide much of listening. But this that the Government has presented is not a reform, it does not give a mission, it does not indicate a way to beat, it does not suggest innovative industrial strategies or offers the financial cover to a project to relaunch. The government's law is limited to changing governance. Nor does this matter, given that Minister Padoan has asked the Supervisory Committee to renew the RAI summit with the old Gasparri law. The real heart of the reform is the delegation it grants to the Government to do what Parliament does not do. The Government will collect the delegation but will commit itself to co-opting the parties, including the opposition, in the management of the company: Government and parties. It is true that yesterday a PD senator patrol, voting together with the opposition, at least rejected the delegation on the canon. It is true that a text by my signature was even accepted as an agenda, but deduced from a bill presented by Gentiloni y a longtemps, today among the closest collaborators of the Premier, who speaks of the public service. It is also true that undersecretary Giacomelli and the rapporteur have promised moderation and ventilated the possibility of improving the text of the law in the House, but my experience, my experience, the most dear memories that bind me to RAI today induce me to vote in dissent, no to the bill. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and the Senators Minzolini and Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u41	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, since Senator Crimi asked for the presence of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport yesterday for an information on the catastrophic situation of Fiumicino - we Italians know how catastrophic the Government is, but at least we do not want foreigners to know - I ask you if a date has been evaluated and if the Minister has already given an availability.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u42	The request for information has already been sent to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, but it has not been declared available for today, so you will let us know. [[Senator Ciampolillo points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u43	Senator Ciampollo, what do you want to intervene on? Please make sure everyone is at their seats without balls because Senator Ciampolillo is watching you. [[Applause from Senator Cardinals.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u46	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, since yesterday we witnessed yet another theater of absent senators voting with a paper ball, asking for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure, I would ask you, please, to have any cards of absent senators removed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As you know, our secretary senators are watching. He asked the rapporteur, Mr Ranucci, to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u47	Mr President, I speak very briefly for non-formal thanks, because a great deal has really been done. Starting from the Commission, let me first thank President Matteoli, who has always been a super party. I would also like to thank all the members of the Commission, because a great deal of work has been done, so I should like to thank the Commission's offices and officials. A great deal of work has also been done in this House, and I think that you should be satisfied, Mr President, because we have always faced each other, looking at each other in the eyes and saying what could be done and that could not be done. We have improved this bill again, I am convinced, thanks to the contribution of all the Groups, without any exchange, but only by seeking the good of this bill. I thank you all and you, Mr President. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u48	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u49	Mr President, I would just like to join in the concept just expressed by the rapporteur, thanking the Senate Assembly, the Presidency and all the senators, as well as the Presidency of the Commission and, in particular, my fellow senators who have participated in all the work they have done in the Commission. I would also like to thank the officials and the structure of the Senate for a path that I consider useful. I do not say anything about it, but I have the feeling that we will still be here to discuss it; there will be no lack of opportunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u50	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 1880 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Consequently, the draft law no. 746, 760, 1570, 1795, 1815, 1823, 1841 and 1855.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u52	You have the right to do so. (Brusio). I ask colleagues who want to leave the Chamber, to do so in silence, in order to allow Senator Fattori to speak. FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I would wait until the House is empty before speaking. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So, Senator, you're quitting surgery? FACTORS (M5S). No, Mr President, I said: we are waiting for silence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's what I'm saying. If you want to intervene, do it, as it will be listened equally through the microphones; the buzz is not perceived.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u53	[[Brusio. Call the president back.]] FACTORS (M5S). In mid-2012, following the implementation of the nomadic plan of the Municipality of Rome, at the La Barbuta camp the inhabitants of the Roma camp of Tor de' Cenci (240 people) and Via del Baiardo (about 100 people) were transferred to create a population of 500 inhabitants of different ethnic groups, also creating a serious overcrowding. The situation is potentially explosive. In fact, the deep tension has generated a situation of illegality within the camp and in the adjacent areas with very serious episodes that in the months of June and July have seen several fires that have caused discomfort even for the adjacent airport of Ciampino, aggressions (the last July 23 of a civil protection volunteer who had entered the camp to put out a fire), as well as the killing of a horse in the nearby hippodrome of Capannelle (which evidently bothered the inhabitants of the camp), beheaded by a stretched wire. The burns come from the incineration of waste, which fuels the suspicion of illicit trafficking. The fact that on the land of La Barbuta, as we learn from telephone interceptions, there seems to be also interest attributable to Buzzi and his band, does not reassure us at all. The camp of La Barbuta has in fact become an inaccessible territory to municipal police and other bodies and associations such as the Red Cross and also the Civil Protection for which it has become an autonomously managed territory. Between October and November 2014, the Directorate-General for Justice of the European Commission sent a letter to the Italian Government requesting additional information on the conditions of accommodation for Roma in Italy for the purpose of verifying compliance with Directive 2000/43/EC implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of ethnic origin, which is clearly not the case in the area of La Barbuta. The area of La Barbuta is a serious violation of this directive and, on the other hand, concerns about safety, the environment and health due to toxic fires make the conditions of civic coexistence between residents and nomads ever worse. We believe that the situation is very alarming and dangerous and we do not see the intervention of either the Minister or the authorities. We have therefore tabled a question on this matter, the 4-04234, which I would like to urge before this situation becomes unsustainable for all the citizens of the area. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u56	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I rise to denounce yet another abuse. Specifically, I am talking about the Salento territory but in reality it is a common problem for all Italy: there are families who are still forced to live on the churchyard, on the street or by car. That shouldn't happen. We are in 2015 and we call ourselves a civilized people but in reality we are an uncivilized and menephregist people. In fact, if there are still these episodes, it means that politics does not do what it has to do, just as the representatives of the territorial authorities do not do their duty. I am referring at this moment to the mayor of the Municipality of Lecce who for months has received the reports from people who have denounced these situations and who, to date, has not provided to fix these people who, in the meantime, are forced to live on the street, to renounce their rights not because of them but of those who do not provide for them to live a dignified life. I appeal to the mayor of Lecce, Paolo Perrone, as well as to the new prefect who has settled for a few days: I ask them to provide as soon as possible for situations such as those of Mr. Pietro Scatigna and Ugo Mennini and others no longer to occur. The problem is that lately more thought has been given to picking up votes during the elections than to common welfare. We must provide absolutely and quickly, before situations fall apart, before people get to extreme gestures. The 5 Star Movement is there and with this I want to conclude by saying that I know, it is not enough, it is not enough to give my solidarity to these families but my solidarity consists in being next to them and denouncing here in the House and elsewhere other episodes in the hope that they will never happen again. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u59	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report another incident here concerning commuters travelling by train. Yesterday, at the station of Parma, commuters who go to work in Milan with a journey time of no less than an hour and a half were told that from now on the Frecciabianca nn. 9802 and 35825, which allowed to arrive in Milan around 9.30 to 9.45, would have been abolished indefinitely. This involves the fact that these commuters can only take two trains, with a journey time at least half an hour higher than that permitted by the Arrows, with problems of respect for the timetable and with deep discomfort, as is the case with these commuters who have very long stretches of road to precede. However, the news was in no way leaked and the discomfort is evident. I reserve the right to submit a question to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. I have already prepared a letter to the managing director to ask for explanations about this sudden suppression, to denounce also this way of the State Railways, that remain an agency that carries out a public service, to suppress trains without giving any information, not considering that on the trains there are also commuters for which, the need to take a train in an adequate time to get to work, does not need to be clearly emphasized. Without rhetoric, I believe that the problem of the train as a means of exercising the right to work is a matter for the State Railways to take over, beyond the economic logic or relative to the functionality of the total services, which are certainly not distracted by the presence of these trains that must guarantee access to work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u62	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, yesterday we heard from the SVIMEZ report that the situation in the South is tragic. I therefore ask you to report back to the Minister for Economic Development. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're at the end of the session. PUGLIA (M5S). The session isn't over. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I know that the sitting is not over, but we are at the end of the sitting and your speech can be considered as such. PUGLIA (M5S). Under Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, I believe that there are eight senators who support my request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do an end-of-session surgery if you want to do it. PUGLIA (M5S). I would like you to stick to the Rules of Procedure, so I would ask the Minister for Economic Development to come to this House and explain to us what he wants to do with the South of Italy, given that the SVIMEZ report informs us that GDP is negative for the seventh consecutive year, that even from 2001 to 2013 growth has been less than half that of Greece; that there is a gap of 53.7% of GDP per capita compared to the rest of the country; investment continues to fall, industry is at collapse, with added value down by 38.7% from 2008 to 2014. Women and young people are out of the labour market, births have been at the very least historic for a hundred and fifty years and are obviously predicting a demographic tsunami; it is at risk on all the depletion of human, financial and entrepreneurial resources that could prevent us in the Mezzogiorno from hooking up the possible new growth that is so frightened. That is why the Minister for Economic Development must come to this House and let us see what happens to us in the South. Mr President, eight senators support my request. The Minister comes to the Chamber on Monday. So we give him every chance to think about it. Let's do something. Let's create a Ministry. They make something up. We are willing to help this country. ( [[Applause from the M5S Group).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u63	Senator Puglia, the Presidency takes note of your request, which was made earlier than the other speeches at the end of the sitting. As it is not about a news story that goes back to yesterday, and not an event that has occurred, as the Rule of the Rules of Procedure you have mentioned states, it does not therefore fall within the scope of the regulation. In any case, we take note of your reminder that it will certainly be possible for the reopening of the work to be qualified as a request for information, which will be scheduled as requested by you. I call Senator Puglia again for the late-session surgery he had previously requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u64	Mr President, we have news that the pension system will be adjusted in September or October. Among the news that is given to us, we have even heard some unlikely news about a possible recalculation of pensions with the contributory system. Then I don't get it right. In this House, a vote taken a few days ago does not mean that vitalities are eliminated. And, when we propose to remove them, the Presidency tells us that in reality vitality is a contribution we make every day and therefore it is inappropriate and unconstitutional not to give it. Okay. Then, if we do not want to call them vitalities, we propose a contributory system based on what has been paid out. But, no way. This House has not even accepted the contributory system. Then, a method is applied outside and in this House far from being a method. Therefore, the government does not touch the pensions that are already paid today, because the people who receive them have organized their lives according to them. We will oppose this. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u67	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, grass in some public parks swings to its knees. Disgruntled subway workers have slowed down the service at man's pace. A fire has made the city's largest airport massed and chaotic. The arrests of public officials accumulate, revealing many infiltrations into the city's government. This is the mirror that gives the "New York Times" to describe Rome, the Capital of Italy. Organized chaos, chronic maladministration and general neglect: this, on the other hand, writes it "Le Monde". To the dirt, to the huts of the garbage, in this month have been added also the public transport left to the chaos, that they have forced the passengers to wait hours and to travel piled up or with the doors open. Worse than that, we thought. And instead there was the remix, the third. And how did we solve the problems? Nominating Marco Causi, who, together with Veltroni, is the author of the mega debt of 12 billion left in inheritance on the shoulders of the Roman citizens, served in part to cover expenses such as those of the Auditorium, the Fuksas Cloud at EUR and the swimming stadium. These last two are works unfinished and in phase of unraveling. It is also the work of Mr Marco Causi to use derivatives, which are still among the burdens of the romans tartaxed for several hundred million. And let us turn to the Councillor Esposito, one who Rome and its streets know to menadito, being of Moncalieri, in this common to the mayor of Genoa; one who in life has nothing else to do, except that he is commissioner for the Roman coast and senator of the Republic. If Esposito wants to be a city councilman for the transport of Rome, he has only one choice: to leave his seat in the Senate. Yet, he hastened to say that he will not resign. May it never be that the Marine Junta falls in haste: other than assigned to mobility. Esposito would be perfect for immobility. And anyway, this is really the wonderland. Do you know why, Mr. President? Because if you're a liar, you're cool. If you tell the truth, you're cut off. That is what happened, Christian Rosso, who was punished for telling the truth. The driver of the ATAC, who in the course days complained about the dysfunctions of the company for which he works, was reached by an indefinite suspension, i.e. an oxymoron that contains both the pervicacy and the senselessness of the decision. But before that it seems unacceptable to impose a sanction on an employee who has done nothing but tell the truth, denouncing with a video the disservices of the ATAC, from the pitiful state of public transport to the infinite expectations, to the lack of security, especially on some lines; disservices that, moreover, are under the eyes of all and that in these weeks are throwing into ridicule the Capital of Italy. It follows that, where the employer's conduct is directed at compulsing the right of expression of the worker's thinking, it results in unlawful activity. Therefore, dismissal or disciplinary sanctions that are right in the manifestation of thought by the worker are unlawful. For all these reasons, we call for the suspension of Christian Rosso to be lifted immediately. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u70	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, in April, with the document on economics and finance, an infinite number of strategic public works were removed from the list of strategic infrastructures, and I would like to point out that, among the 25, there is only the Florence tram, which we all wonder what is strategic about. Among the works deleted from the list there is also the redevelopment of the road Lecco-Bergamo, received by CIPE in 2008, seven years ago, which was divided into four functional lots on the territory. For one of these lots, that of the variant of Cisano Bergamasco, already financed in part by the State and the Lombardy Region for 40 million euros, was held, on January 12 of this year, a Conference of decision-making services, in which obviously participated the Region, the Province, the Adda Nord Park, the interested municipalities and also the undersigned, invited to support the local authorities. From January to July it has been many months. The local administrators asked about what had happened with regard to the authorization of this project and, two weeks ago, they went to the Ministry of Public Works, directed first by Lupi and today by Delrio, where they found that, with Delrio innovation, the mission structure has been dismantled. Not only with the DEF has the variant of Cisano Bergamasco been deleted from the list of strategic works, but even to the Ministry there are no more the project, nor the minutes of the Conference of Services. I mean, it's all gone. Is this Renzi's revolution? Those Bergamo and Lecco territories, which pay hundreds of millions of euros each year in taxes that do not return (I remember that Lombardy has an active fiscal surplus of 52 billion euros); those territories of the Provinces of Lecco and Bergamo, which contribute to national GDP for several percentage points, Mr President, certainly deserve more than this treatment. Therefore, Mr President, as the Lega Nord Group, we strongly urge the Ministry to bring out the project, the whole process of inquiry and, above all, the minutes of the Conference of Services, which absolutely must be found. And, above all, we hope that state funding will be confirmed when the DEF is updated. If not, you will have to fear the wrath of the meek Lecchesi and Bergamos. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am here to ask two questions: Act 3-00366, published on 17 September 2013, and Act 4-03074 of 25 November 2014. Mr President, these numbers, said so, mean little, but I am sure that I will find the right person in you, who will be able to make the Ministers of the Interior and Justice aware of two questions concerning the Sicilian urologist Attilio Misses. Mr President, these are simple questions and the Ministers can immediately give an answer to the family and to the many Italian citizens who have informed themselves and are linked to the criminal fact that has happened: they think that, for more than ten years, they have been waiting for answers. Mr President, I do not forget your previous position: you were the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor and I am sure and sure that you will be able to raise awareness of the Ministers in question in order to finally get an answer. I ask you another thing, President Grasso: because, while he was in those functions, he had to say precisely to Attilio's family: "Find me proof"? You said that in some interviews and you will surely remember. The evidence is probably there today. Perhaps we should not continue to leave the Missing Family alone and all those citizens who are waiting for a signal from the institutions that you represent. Probably - and this is an invitation that I address to you softly - it is appropriate to invite the Missing Lords to these institutions, in order to make them feel the closeness of a State that has not been there so far. Perhaps you, as President of the Senate, could elegantly do that graceful gesture today. President Grasso, I referred to what I said in my request for two questions in this House on 3 December 2014. Today is July 31, 2015: in eight months, you have not given any answer. Mr. President Grasso, I'm here to keep you feeling, on the case of Attilio Misses, the healthy breath on your neck for what will be my skills and my ability. It is unacceptable for everyone in Italy to remain silent on the case of Attilio Missa and you, Mr President, along with everyone else. I am obliged, with due institutional courtesy, to remind you of these things. And believe me, as long as I am senator of the Republic, I will periodically address these calls to you, so as to encourage you to help me find an answer, even in the competent offices, for the Missing family. Mr President, I am looking at you right now, because between Sicilians it is a communication system that is used: we can no longer remain inert and silently waiting for who knows what. It is time for clarity on the case of Attilio Missa. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u72	It is in a certain informal way to make an appeal to the President in this way. You know very well that I know the case and the institutional profile certainly prompts the President to ask questions. The rest, however, is a matter of personal and institutional evaluation. That must be clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u75	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, as a member of the 10th Commission, I have tabled a written question 4-04398 on an important issue not only for the territory of Bergamo, because it concerns a company in Italy and Europe. I'm talking about Italcementi. Italcementi, which has been sold to the Germans, follows only what Italy has done in recent years: it has sold parts of its industrial assets in favor of foreign investors, losing away assets that have always been considered strategic for the economic growth of this country. Many Italian brands have gone into foreign hands that represent the greatest expression of Made in Italy in the world: they are now owned by foreign brands such as Loro Piana, Gucci, Bulgari, Fendi, Valentino, the Ducati (to talk about the mechanical sector). What worries us is the sale of the Pesenti family of Italcementi to a German group, an agreement that puts a bit at risk - as the unions say - the fate of about 3,000 employees in Italy. These are issues that we raise without the industrial capacity to market in the world. But, every time there has been some acquisition by foreign competitors of Italian companies, there has always been a impoverishment of the workforce and a impoverishment of the territories, which were perhaps considered very rich precisely because of the presence of these companies. Privatisations in Italy have not always taken place with the priority logic of protecting the strategic interests of the national economy and restoring competitiveness to the industrial fabric of the country. We have always complained, even in the Commission of productive activities, of the inability of this Government, but probably also of the previous ones, to have a force of impact regarding the issue linked to the productive activity and, therefore, a lack of an industrial plan that, in arms with a strategic plan for the energy, could somehow raise the fate of this country. Even with this question that we have prepared, we commit the Government to ensure that the growth of all Italian companies is not absorbed by foreign hands, because then the cuts would certainly cause further unemployment. If we then think that with the jobs act we hire a worker on the one hand, to leave two at home on the other, he believes that the net balance is -1 and we cannot afford this. I therefore ask the Presidency, but more generally the Government, to pay close attention when these things happen, because they happen for reasons related to the stock exchange, the economy, strategic issues, but the final result is a relapse on the employees, who are the ones we care most about. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u76	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-495.ana.u77	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday, August 3, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 11:43 a.m.
