ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 16 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are asking for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1880, 746, 760, 1570, 1795, 1815, 1823, 1841 and 1855.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u9	Mr President, the draft law for the reform of the RAI and the public television service is the synthesis and concentration of nine draft laws filed in the Chambers on broadcasting issues. In April 2013, therefore in conjunction with the first steps of the current legislature, the European Commission published the Green Paper entitled: Preparation for an audiovisual world of full convergence: growth, creation and values. In March 2014, AGCOM published a detailed and detailed study on the whole world of communication, from the traditional one, such as television and radio, to the Internet, which is based on fixed and mobile devices, in short, on the entire audiovisual media galaxy. The title of the publication AGCOM is exemplary: "Future Internet": convergence scenarios, enabling factors and new services. In short, the mass of notions, thesis, analysis, hypotheses, projects and solutions that the universe of communication puts to our attention, to that of the legislator and the operators, to the public beneficiary and user. The concept of public service is always being used and the question of the meaning of public service is becoming ever more pressing in the light of new and old technologies, new national, European and global political, social and economic contexts. Public service as a mantra of today's democracies, then? Is it now called convergence - so it is a lexical simplification - the public control of the educational, information, public opinion training function and the stimulus to cultural growth entrusted to the audiovisual sector? Are we talking about euphemisms, or is convergence a new frontier, a new objective of democracies, including ours? We would clearly opt for the second hypothesis, for the ideal path planned by the State in favour of citizens, aimed at the self-constitution of their own point of view, of their own ability to be protagonists of the full realization of personality, needs and individual and collective planning. Now, in the light of these elementary considerations, it seems difficult to escape, on the part of the legislator, the exercise of a conscience devoted to the common good, to true individual and collective growth, to the serene evaluation of what is good, useful, economic and democratic, in order to implement in telecommunications the concept of public service. The contents of the draft law n. 1880-A and among the most important aspects of our assessment, the governance of the future RAI is the most demanding. Here, we would like a top of the company as professional and with intuitions aimed at the efficiency and economics of the company, a management devoted to the interpretation of the rights of users, viewers and listeners. Opening up to new technologies and their enormous potential is an epochal mission, but it clearly requires a sense of responsibility, preparation, lifestyles, a sense of the state, respect for that neighbour, now increasingly induced to have eyes fixed on the screen with liquid crystals or on the tablet, which represent anatomical pages of the men and women of the third millennium. In the same way as these considerations, what the Conservative and Reformist Group proposes is to have a system of governance that is the most ideal from the point of view of respecting individual capacities within the Company. Everyone has their own point of view: we are of the opinion that at the top of the RAI there should be independent and independent people, able to respond to their consciences and to be more and more present to themselves, in the objective of always doing the common good. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u10	Senator Gibiino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u11	Mr President, the reform of the RAI would have required a broad and in-depth discussion on all issues relating to public service broadcasting and would have required a port for shared solutions; in any case, it should not have upset the overall layout of Law No 112 of 2004, which rewritten the current set-up of the radio and television system, taking into account all the decisions of the Constitutional Court in this regard. We were also inclined to reform the public service financing system, first of all the RAI canon, as provided for in the Government's bill. We were in favour of finding provisions that could help combat the phenomenon of evasion, but safeguarding the principle of specific financing of public broadcasting services, accompanied by reductions in favour of the less well-off. The delegation for the reform of the audiovisual and radio media sector also leaves great concern: it is in fact a delegation in white, because it is too generic, and it affects complex structures, such as the advertising market of newspapers. A serious confrontation would have merited an assessment of the overall effects of the evolution of the sector in the face of the challenge of the new media and the fate of all the media, including television. The central theme of the draft law, however, is the governance of RAI. The solution proposed by the Government effectively assigns the appointment of the managing director and of the same board of directors to the Government, while the forecast of the current legislation that entrusts the appointment of directors of administration to Parliament through the Supervisory Board, obeys the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, which has drawn a system to guarantee pluralism and minorities. There is a constitutional jurisprudence stratified in over forty years of Italian history. Different decisions of the 1974, 1987, 2008 and 2009 Council have all reaffirmed the centrality of Parliament and the Supervisory Committee in the choice of the Management Board and the need for the Government to respect its specific prerogatives. We are absolutely convinced that as long as RAI remains a public society, the judgments of the Constitutional Court should be taken into account. The procedure for the appointment of the employee representative to the Management Board has not been specified. The managing director, who is going to replace the current figure of the general manager of the RAI, had to be inserted in a context that preserved an overall balance, avoiding what in fact this explicit bill: a prominent influence of the Government in the appointment and therefore in the managerial choices of an enterprise that was and remains a public good. Then it would have been better to proceed towards privatisation of RAI and put it into a market competition with all other operators. Such a competition could also have involved the granting of the same public radio and television service. We reiterate the need to maintain and strengthen Parliament's role in selecting and naming the members of the Management Board, but also by laying down precise criteria of competence, professionalism and good repute for the candidates to the Board. All of our proposals were aimed at promoting RAI independence from the government. The adoption of amendment 2.109, which I have signed with my colleagues Gasparri and Minzolini, will allow the appointment of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, carried out by the Board within its members, to become effective after obtaining the favourable opinion of the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services, expressed by a majority of two thirds of its members. Even the proposed privatisation of RAI was intended only to balance the increased power of influence of the government that comes from the bill. Other proposals suggested changes aimed at increasing the efficiency and independence of the company as a guarantee of pluralism, but on the assumption that Parliament's control would be maintained. In this respect, the provision prohibiting an RAI employee from being appointed CEO appears unreasonable. As if to say that within a company of such size there is no figure, among the apical ones, able to play that role. In this case, it was sufficient to clarify and prevent conflicts of interest and overlaps. We remain convinced that within RAI there are professionals of great quality and experience, which should on the contrary be valued. To break the node of the relationship between politics and the public broadcasting company, only two roads were viable: the first, privatising the RAI in whole or in part (i.e. for individual branches of the company); the second, if you want to maintain the public nature, reaffirming that the role of publisher of the company belongs to Parliament, as repeatedly affirmed by the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. This choice implies, however, the obligation to respect the principles of pluralism, protection of minorities and independence from the Government. In fact, it is not a question of supporting the logic of batching, but of ensuring that democratic rules are respected. The Constitutional Court has stated in various judgments that the governing bodies of the RAI cannot be constituted in such a way as to represent the executive power exclusively or prevalently. In this regard, the Consultative Committee, in order to guarantee the values of pluralism and democratic public service broadcasting, has given the Parliamentary Supervisory Committee powers of control, precisely because Parliament is the depositary of the representation of the national community. On the contrary, the Government's choice to appoint the CEO directly clearly clashes with this jurisprudence and, unlike the Government itself, does not subtract RAI from the control of politics at all. We therefore acknowledge the constructive climate that has arisen in the Commission on merit, which has been reiterated several times, but I confirm the negative opinion of Forza Italia on the text under consideration, which retains many, too many of the critical issues I have mentioned. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u13	Mr President, I think that in twenty minutes we can say a lot of important things, because it is important that this is the subject that has been being studied by Parliament and this House for many years. In fact, we try to reform every time an important reality like RAI and we always make reforms that, so to speak, leave a piece behind, that is, are not complete. Reforms are being made that show that there is a partisan interest in those who propose them, in those who support them, in those who approve them, in those who bring them to this House by showing the positive aspects, of course for him and for the majority. There are those who, on the other hand, who want to think at 360 degrees, look at all aspects, including the critical aspects, including the downside of the medal, who highlight well the limits of this way of working, of these reforms, of this way of proceeding in the reforms that never leads to an accomplished result, but which obliges from time to time - every luxury - to intervene in order to make reform of the reforms - so announced - which then turns out to be nothing more than a further reform, which will therefore require a further change and a further discussion in five years' time, again committing Parliament to say that it was actually right that someone took action a few years earlier and that it could well be done then, but it did not happen. It is therefore likely that this will happen in a few years' time and we will see a film - pass me the term, since we are talking about RAI - that we are living today and that those who have already been present in Parliament's classrooms for some time have also seen it on other occasions. A few days ago I was talking to a person who was born when television did not exist yet, but there was only one radio channel, so it was certainly not a good time to do democratic information, that information that was actually needed by people. I believe that the spirit of this reform should make us think, because I would not like to find myself having a RAI that, with one or more channels, has the same address, the same way of acting, that is to give information in a unique way, to give information channeled, to make a certain kind of show and entertainment that in its depth still contains messages that are launched and that go in the direction of giving a clear political support to someone, because this would return to a system of information that is certainly not democratic, that nobody wants. The RAI itself, as it is reformed, with the type of board that is prefigured, with the forecast of a mode of operational management placed in charge of subjects that is hypothesized today in this discussion to be of the great managers, should undergo a radical transformation, because it is removed from the control of the parties, in how much is made a selection finally based on the abilities, the merit, what should be natural in the management of a great company like this, but I fear that in the end will happen what has happened so far: a few decades ago it was said, when it was a question of public recruitment, that one had to assume, out of three people, a socialist, a Christian Democrat and a good one; in RAI, instead, a socialist, a Christian Democrat, a communist and a good one. I believe that, in the end, perhaps by changing the definitions, those who will have to manage the RAI will hardly be able to escape this logic, because however the choice made on his name will be of a political part and the guidelines and the pressures will not be lacking. So the merit, the true abilities, the possibility of emerging and enhancing a great heritage of experiences that we have in the world of communication, entertainment, television and film making in our country, will be dispersed again. That would be a further serious responsibility for voting in favour of this measure. We have put so many questions to the attention of the House, starting - in order to be ground - from the canon, which is imposed on us to watch a television even if we do not want to watch those channels; it must be paid even if, as in my mountain areas, you do not see the RAI channels; it is imposed on us even if to see those channels you have to pay for the installation of a parable and a receiver. It almost seems that you want to be an evader if you say that you take refuge on the channel of another TV operator because those of RAI cannot be seen. There are citizens who are being persecuted because they have not paid the RAI canon perhaps for a fair protest, because they do not agree with the information methods that are being carried out, or simply because it is impossible for them to enjoy that kind of service. Yet no distinction is made. This is another of the issues that should be addressed and that should lead everyone to reflect on the need to maintain an instrument, a means of financing such as the RAI canon, which is certainly unfair, also because it is paid in an uneven way - I say with a smile - throughout the country. The canon is paid by those who feel as a moral obligation and life the payment of taxes and taxes; but there are also the usual smart ones, who prefer another kind of philosophy of life and who do not feel the weight of having to pay the State the RAI canon. Unfortunately, as I said, the payment of the fee is not homogeneous throughout the national territory, because there are areas where its escape seems to be a very practiced sport. The problem of the canon, however, is not the only one to be addressed and discussed. There are also other issues, such as thematic channels, which must have their own functionality, purpose, audience. While it is true that it is important to give some kind of information to citizens regardless of the percentage points of audience, it is equally true that there are content that needs to be updated and brought to all citizens with a purpose, if we want, also of cultural growth. Just go to Spain to see Vaughan TV to understand how Spanish state television on digital terrestrial uses this simple means to teach children, and also to those who are no longer children, English, making a continuous transmission in Spanish and English for twenty-four hours with differentiated levels of difficulty, continually beating iron on how grammar works, syntax and how we should express ourselves in the language of Albion. From this point of view there are many things that could be done, but that are not taken into consideration because perhaps we prefer to continue to propose thematic channels that have a small audience, but do not have the cultural importance that could instead allow us all to make a qualitative leap in our life and in our personal relationships with subjects who are not citizens of this country. If we then have to talk about the privatization of RAI, then we go back to the beginning of the intervention; it is an infinite story, which becomes the banner, the flag of so many electoral campaigns, but then, in essence, it is absolutely not accomplished and carried forward, also because the carriage, as it is managed, is difficult to sell on the market. Drastic action should be taken, and this would also involve reactions, which are understandable, of course, in trade union terms and in the defence of employment levels. The problem perhaps, even in that case, is whether we should look at a company like RAI for its purposes, intended to give information and entertainment to citizens, or for the purposes of employment, job creation, some of which are absolutely unjustified and overpaid. This, in fact, would be another issue to be addressed: whether there are RAI leaders or managers to whom wages and monster allowances are given is something that should be discussed morally. It must be understood whether there is indeed a return or whether it is appropriate that that kind of compensation and that kind of amounts be granted by the free television market and not by a service which should be public and therefore also calmed down. Perhaps for many subjects the importance of working for RAI, for a serious company, if such a reality were to be achieved, would also overcome the economic discourse and the importance of the level of remuneration. In that case, it would become a reference point of a nation with regard to information and therefore would participate in the creation of an institutional credibility and communication, in a reality, such as that of RAI, which can and must be redeemed after so many years of crisis and after so many dark years, which are the result of the work carried out and are to be attributed to the responsibility essentially of everyone. No one can say that it has not, unfortunately, contributed to the situation that has arisen. Now, as I said, we have to tackle the issue of reform, which is also linked to the concept of public service. The public service is not so much to be defined on the basis of who makes it, but rather on the basis of the content of the same, that is to say, what you want to give as information, as communication and entertainment to citizens, but also depends on the way in which you do it: also on the possibility to enhance, as I said before, the reality of our country, the territories, to make known unknown villages, the possibility, for example, to explain to all citizens that not only French cheeses are good. Just go to the valley of which the President of the Assembly is originally at this time, the Val Brembana, to know that there exists in Italy a reality that has more DOP dairy than all France; those products are perhaps not known and are not known, but they are products that Italian citizens - we first living in this country - should know. Yet no one cares about that and comes to us to propose the experiences on the area of champagne, explain how beautiful Reims is, how beautiful the area where Dutch cheese is made, how beautiful the area of Belgium and Belgian breweries and nobody goes to look at our excellences, despite the Expo, despite we have a territory that produces many good and positive things. No one goes to show the excellences, even of industrial or craft type. We still have many, despite the crisis, thanks to these entrepreneurs who fight and defend themselves with their teeth. Let us, however, show the great American realities. It is more interesting to show the Silicon Valley or Google, Facebook, Apple than to make it clear that there are realities that are affirmed in the world, that have headquarters in our country, often in the North, and that they are able, still today, to be competitive. We don't notice them and we only look at giants because they are the ones that hit the imagination the most. They are the ones that we think are best known also abroad, but then if we go abroad we realize that many of our products are also known outside our national borders and that they are not so known by those who live inside. We need a more comprehensive, 360 degree way of training, involving the territories and allowing all realities to express themselves. From this point of view, it is also wrong to merge RAI offices, which we are thinking of doing in these weeks, because it means denying the importance of the territories themselves. This isn't spending review, but a bad choice that leads to erase identity; it's completely wrong as an address because that's not where you have to cut it; that's not where you have to intervene. It is not that way of doing information (which is of great interest to citizens because it is closest to them, especially in peripheral situations) that must be affected. Moreover, the success of certain local televisions - I am talking about the historical ones - in some realities testifies to this: the local news of provinces with a million inhabitants manage to have even about 250,000 spectators every evening. Transporting them on a national scale would have TG1 or TG5 numbers. Things like this need to be taken into account when it comes to reform and when it comes to new boards and again how to administer a RAI that I would not like to be distant from these lines of thought. There is a fundamental problem with communication. I used to say that when I set the example of the person I spoke to a few weeks ago who told me that, when he was born, there was only one radio channel and there was no television and that the only information came from that radio channel. Here, I would not want to go back to that time when, despite the presence of several radio and television channels, there were still the same communicative address and the same political direction as these media, with the result of being subservient exclusively to the wills and expectations of the Government. That would be the wrong choice and the worst result that can be achieved with the approval of this reform of yours. It is right to point out that it is your reform because, despite all the proposed amendments we have made, we have not seen any mention of assent or sharing and, therefore, it remains your proposal, your responsibility. There is clearly still a majority reform, which, as I said at the beginning, is by no means complete. It is a reform that, leaving a piece behind, will force Parliament in the coming years to return to this matter again and probably to say that not myself, but many other colleagues who spoke yesterday and today on this issue were right in their speeches. So we're missing a chance. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Volpi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u15	Mr President, I have to say that many of the contents that Mr Stucchi has just expressed are not only acceptable, but they have also been put in such an intelligent way that they should have also touched on the territorial feelings of so many colleagues in the majority who may, however, remain somewhat supine compared to higher choices. I also look with interest at the discussion of the text by the Undersecretary and the rapporteur, because I think that, after all, what we are doing is not an academic exercise and limited to occupying an area of debate. Rather, the objective is to verify to the full the willingness to reason on the qualifying elements brought to the Commission. You see, President, I think that if we were to interpret RAI as a company we would have to start from a position exactly contrary to the current one. In a normal company, who has the responsibility (and we at the moment have it as legislators, but basically also as representatives of the real shareholders who are citizens) should ask himself what you want this company to bring in its context. If it is believed that RAI is a company of common good, before finding its architecture of governance, through our reflections RAI should deal with all that part relative to the different sensibilities of contents and choices that would be due to this extended, broad Assembly that at this moment becomes the obligation to be almost the managing director of the holding company that controls the company and therefore must establish its strategic objectives. Mr Crosio tells me, among other things, that in you we always have a very prepared and attentive interlocutor to the issues dealt with, as well as the rapporteur, so I think I am not saying heresies and I am not taking the time unnecessarily. When we decide what the architecture of governance will be, we should also ask ourselves what it is for, what kind of company it is for, otherwise we would repeat the exercise of the usual Parliament that inevitably chooses the figurines and says that this is okay rather than that. The public company, at this time, is clearly in difficulty with strategy. There is a great dispersion of capacity, programmes and content, but there is also a priority question, which I personally also address as a user, concerning the definition of public service. We should define what public service is. She and I are not so young anymore, let's say that we are different young people and remember that, when there were two channels in black and white, we knew what the public service was because in those two spaces the information, the comment and that part of programming were concentrated to grow an Italy that had not yet grown because it had gone through several difficulties. So even those programs that maybe today we different young people remember with a certain affection, were useful to bring Italy to a necessary minimum cultural level that unfortunately did not have. Even literacy was one of the great works carried out by RAI of the other times, when it arrived in the homes of all by teaching with master Manzi that represented the relationship at the same time professional and familiar that television, at that time, had with the audience because it entered all houses with a human face. Today, however, there is also the need, in the context of that public service, to identify, in my opinion, a clear definition of information and commentary, obviously also with regard to politics because it is clear that talk shows are audiences, but personally I am concerned that I find it difficult to understand (because many times we do not understand) what the event or the case is because the representation of certain parts of the information is clearly bound. I say this not because there should not be a different sensitivity within the information, but when information goes beyond personal pathos, it is obviously no longer information, but political comment. This is part of the reasoning I used to make before this House, which is a shareholder at this time, which we want to bring within the context of the reform. I think, Mr. Undersecretary, that there is room to reason together on what we want from RAI. I do not think it is even a problem of sensitivity to the product, but rather of what we have to choose: do we want a monarchic holding company in which every choice is bound by a policy that is no longer even pluralist, but is it even in the hands of the Government, or do we all want to represent something within strategic choices? Inevitably, this goes from the type of governance, whose formation and architecture become an inevitable means of not conditioning, which would be a very bad thing that has happened for many years, so much so that you, Mr. Undersecretary, represent the novelty (look what I tell you). I am referring to what the President-in-Office of the Council was talking about when he said: never again do the parties on the board of directors. It is a pity that this novelty is partly diminished by the reality of the measure. This means that if these are the rules of the game, they must provide for weights and counterweights, because otherwise you would take the responsibility to do something that you do not like so much, giving the country a reform that is far from liberal compared to the participation of the shareholder, that is the citizens. I could tell you something else. I'm still partly romantic, because becoming different young is getting more and more romantic, so I guess at this stage we should also practice with some more feeling. I mean that if this company depends, even today, on our choices, well, Mr. Undersecretary, taking the words of the President of the Council Renzi I wonder if we want to reason on values too, or this company becomes absolutely aseptic, but that would not be true, because the interference of politics would make it a different instrument. We are talking about a very large company, with digital channels that are not seen anywhere (and this is one of the problems), and that really arrives in every house, so sometimes wanted and sometimes random. Well, I am convinced that if an enterprise that has the burden of representing something more than a commercial company does not find within it a map of the values to be transmitted (and it can only be a card of shared values, because it cannot be party or political), then probably what we are doing today is something more than indicating an architecture where to insert managers or administrators. We cannot get rid of the value reasoning by saying that we will think about it later, because there will be so much board members extracted from the parties and then tell them: we will see what happens. Therefore, in my opinion, we can practice imagining the theoretical organization chart with representatives from the Presidency of the Council, the Government, Parliament, the Senate, the House, but it would be spurious. In my opinion, those who deal with information and public service must be curious and the curiosity lies in the content. For example, we often ask ourselves questions about publishing, about which newspaper we read; maybe we are lucky, because in the morning we can read a press review, but you know that especially in the province we read a first and a second newspaper, which is often the local one (sometimes even the opposite). However, that plurality of information derives from a curiosity, that of reading the political commentary on the great national newspaper and then reading what happens on its territory. As President Stucchi said earlier, RAI must regain its capacity. I imagine that in the evening you and I, even if we may have little time, review the digital channels, that in my opinion there are so many that they are becoming dispersed, so much so that I can no longer follow a whole program, but so it is. What Mr Crosio and Mr Stucchi said, however, is that RAI should also be re-appropriated for local information, or that local networks should be able to continue to provide information which is of interest to the citizen at local level. Let's think, for example, of the news about the fall of the mayor of a certain country: probably this news will never be given by the national news, but will give it the local news, because at the local level it interests, as well as the operation of the services in a suburb or interested in understanding what the sensitivities of a neighborhood are. Mr President, my dear Undersecretary, I think that in our desire to share in this strategic choice there are qualifying elements, which must be beyond fear. In particular, through answers from you, Mr Undersecretary, we could overcome the fear that this is a blitz done by the Government in order to have a monopoly; in the same way you could perhaps overcome the fear that ours is a dilatory attempt on our part and more generally of the opposition, while there is all the sense of collaboration for something that we do not believe - I think with luck and hope all together - neither ours, that is, the opposition, nor yours, that is, the majority. To return to the question of information, this morning I was passing on the street and, since I'm curious, I made an investment that will be censored by my party and I bought "Communist struggle" because I am convinced that there are interesting things to read: there may be comments that go hand in hand with those of "The Journal." It was a small investment: basically these are the ones that egg us when we do the speeches, but they have something to say on the printed paper exactly like our newspaper. "La Padania" or like our radio or like other newspapers that report ideas and that I believe should exist. Similarly, I am convinced that there should be all the information in the RAI that belongs to all citizens. Mr. Undersecretary, I do not go any further because I do not like the mere academic exercise, but I invite you to take this opportunity, indeed, let us take it together. There are parts of the reform that can be shared. This reform is not our reform: colleagues Stucchi and Crosio have said so clearly, but there are parts that in sharing those values that should be common give meaning to the common value of RAI. We talk less about boxes, we talk more about content, we talk more about extending information, we talk about true pluralism. Mr Undersecretary, behind all these things there are choices that you have in your hands today, contained in that dossier of amendments. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u16	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u17	Mr President, it is said that history must be written at least 50 years late on the events it comments or illustrates. We are here to discuss today the reform of RAI after having for some years abandoned all the stale and instrumental controversy over the grabbing of information by Silvio Berlusconi. This was one of the battle horses to describe the propensity of this political man to hegemonize things and to establish in Italy a sort of peronism, with the consequent need to sweeten and channel the information in the direction most welcome to him. It is precisely starting from this fear that we have adopted over the years a series of measures: they were other times and the left did not have the meek reformer face of today, but it was a little more similar to the French Gauche of the 60s-'70s, there were more forcaioli, there were more people who had to free Italy with a new resistance from the dictator on duty. And as I said, therefore, over the years we have adopted a series of measures that were used exclusively to limit political information in Italy through the radio-television instrument, to abolish political forums, political information, if not surreptitiously propalated through the news, the anchormen of certain one-way broadcasts, which carry out an issue with the aim of criminalizing it, of denouncing a political man or a political part. The faction of men like Santoro is quite well known. However, today we are still here, thanking God, without the anguish of having to counter, limit or prevent someone else from playing their role in the field of information. We are here to dedicate ourselves to the great intention of turning politics away from RAI: how to say to turn priests away from the Church. In fact, I believe that the draft law before us proposes this purpose with a certain presumption. Very often, the term liberal has been used here, but I believe that in a liberal system, when we want to give something to a society, which is not dependent on the cliques of the State or on the power of the political decision-maker, we do not leave it a monopoly, because otherwise we are not in a situation where there is a real liberalisation. The State, in this case, takes RAI SpA and grants it the management and government of the television networks giving it 1 750 million canon, exactly three times what RAI collects as advertising budget, which is equivalent to 600 million euros. So explain to me a little how you can remove politics and the influence of politics from RAI information. Mutatis mutandis: replace the Management Board with another body. I do not want to go into the question of how many members, who should indicate them, because I agree that when Parliament indicates them, the latter is the sovereign expression of the will of the people; unless some political force, which stands out here for the originality of the proposals, does not want to hold a proactive referendum with which the Italian people directly indicate the members of the board. It is a good intention, however, Mr. Undersecretary, of good intentions is paved the way to hell. The purpose of removing the politics and political interests of those who hold power, and therefore occupy the State at that particular historical moment, is achieved only by detaching the monopoly that exists on the RAI, managed with the money of the State. So, excuse me, let me make a blasphemy in the church, as a liberal: why should the state put 1 750 million in it, which requires with the gabella of the RAI canon, and then should not have the claim that I can not say influence, but at least control or direct this company, to which it provides two thirds of the funding for its survival? Let's stop with this hypocrisy, with the famous demi vierges, the half virgins, who believe that the State on the one hand should do even the public informant and provide the means under monopoly regime to a society called RAI in order to do this and that then neutrally, as well as the angels who have no sex, should get out. It's like lending money to someone, without ever calling into account the use this person makes of the money we gave him. That is hypocrisy, Mr. Undersecretary. So, listen, you can do more. Have a good public race and remove this monopoly concession regime. Get the money from Rupert Murdoch, exclude Berlusconi, make an unconstitutional rule, because otherwise it would be said that the "caiman" wants to take back RAI. Exclude the Mediaset networks, but race and get the money from those who can run the RAI, can earn us and can give guarantees of objectivity, because the private entrepreneur doesn't care about Guy or Caio. Leave a public channel, without a fee, that does information, does cultural or theater columns, does political information and social information, and let you give it to those who participate in the tender. In this way, you would cut the umbilical cord between the state, that is, the policy that governs the state at that time, and the conditioning of information. The latter, on the other hand, are the distinctive notes of this Government. You see, Hegel has always told us: what is real is rational and what is rational is real. This is a government that has a President-in-Office of the Council who has reformist propensions of society and the state, has ideas that with the old statist socialism and with the dirigismo have nothing to do with it, but that he continues to manage, I think for quiet living, I think to be able to... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u18	Conclude, Senator D'Anna.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u19	D'ANNA (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PpI, IdV, VGF, FV)). So this government wants to be reformist, but it stops halfway or quarterway. You are not proposing the cut between politics and RAI; you are reorganising governance with a new system, which is no longer made of politics, but that of politics is dressed, with a little more polite and a little cleaner. [[Applause from Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u20	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u21	Mr President, I urge everyone to leave Alberto Manzi alone, a rare example of universality and capillarity of television communication, who, yes, recommended, in order to build an idea of society, to give citizens intelligent television and an appropriate school. With the good school of Renzi we saw how it went and now we are faced with a new and unscrupulous attack: after public education, the right and the dignity of work, now it is up to information. The Government's text is modest, but without modesty, authoritarian, mediocre and at the same time arrogant, closed in a narrow vision of the public service, on the eve of the expiry of the concession with the State, which immediately stumbles in a manifest violation of the constitutional jurisprudence, with the allocation to the Government of the reform of the governance of the public service, although the delegation has been slightly reduced. It is a measure that, once again, unfortunately - according to a custom now abused by this Government - would have deserved much more consideration and reflection and that instead wants to stay in the times of a decree-law, without being so. The discussion took away important components, the hearings in the Commission were cut and quotad, public works were not allowed very active associations and movements in the field of public information to contribute effectively with the valuable and irreplaceable contribution of experience and skills. The choice of the two majority rapporteurs is curious to say the least. Once again, this government abuses the word "reform" which evokes participation and rights in the lexicon of the progressive movement and which today represents an outrage on the same, investing and disrupting democratic representation with Italicum, and interventions on the Constitution, work, school and now also on RAI, a powerful tool in the formation of consciences, also in the era of the Internet and social networks. That of the Government is a Bulgarian proposal, where there is no separation between those who manage and those who govern, nor does there exist any system of balance of powers, direction and control, with a head company directly appointed by the Executive - Italy is the only country in which this happens, with precisely the aforementioned Bulgaria - with full powers, in which you can see the "Marchionne pensiera". Nor do we find a system free from party agreements, as was hoped for at the outset, since there had been announcements in this respect. Just to give an example, the agreement on the choice of headmasters and president still bears the signs of an agreement with Forza Italia. We have done a work in the Commission to incorporate into the Government's text the fundamental principles of the proposal that we presented as the Left Ecology and Freedom, drawn up together with movements and civil society, transforming into amendments the draft law presented to the House of Deputies and our presented here in the Senate. We did not have a obstructive attitude, but that was worthless. Our idea of RAI as a public service and common good is that of an "inverted pyramid," with a council of guarantees, with systems of counterweight and controls and, above all, with paths in synergy with civil society. On the other hand, we continue to suffer from the democratic confrontation, the intermediate bodies, the participation of citizens; above all a great indifference on the part of the public service to its users, who are the crucial part of the system, not a consumer customer, and a current way of redefining the service, as an integral part of the cognitive process. Precisely in the respect of civil society and users, who cannot be considered merely as target users of the public service, but an active part of it, we of Left ecology and freedom have taken into account the call to Parliament, to arrive at a reform of RAI that meets the common and indispensable principles, launched by the association MoveOn Italy, together with A.D.I., A.I., Article 21, Federconsumers, Legambiente, Freedom and Justice, Indignerai and many other associations. In the call "Reform the RAI common good," we will safeguard the public service", reiterated also at the press conference held in recent days, we ask that the Parliament vary a reform of RAI as a common good, precisely, against a private vision and for the direct participation of citizens in communication; that it redefines the public service mission in the context of the renewal of the concession and respects the independence and autonomy of management, editorial and financial, of the public service, as well as a proper balance between management and surveillance bodies in corporate governance, and a new industrial structure project related to the digital communication system. We have made explicit use of the contribution of many of the associations I have appointed to draw up amendments and agendas, and I would like to thank them for that. Now we are looking for an opening to debate and confrontation - which has not been there; there has been no will in the Commission - so that this reform is not a restoration operation, with the aim of privatisation, which transfers the lottification of the Gasparri law to the unique dimension of the will of the Government, with the paradox that if the reform were to sand the board of directors would be elected precisely according to the Gasparri law. After all, the same senator, in an interview on July 11 in the newspaper "Libero" is attributed in the title the triumphal phrase: The RAI reform is a bluff, my law will remain in force. The paradox is that this proposal brings to completion what was prevented by the Gasparri law; I therefore acknowledge that satisfaction is legitimate. We had to wait for the Renzi government to reverse Berlusconi's information projects. Of course, to admit that the Gasparri law is more pluralist, with a view to a parliamentary pluralization, than the Government's bill seriously concerns us and produces a bitterness that goes far beyond the specific judgment on the bill. To give an example, the delegation for the revision of public funding adds a new discipline on the financing of local broadcasting for its fundamental function of public interest. How will this funding be covered? With the fee paid by users? Should this not have been dealt with in the context of the dramatic issue of publishing reform? There were commitments from this point of view of Undersecretary Lotti. Added contradictions, paradoxes and confusion. On the other hand, the clarity and the separation of powers, the establishment of a guarantee board made up of representatives of the political, social and cultural bodies of the country at zero cost, are the key points of our amendment, and I stress this point (we are opposed to the opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution; curious); the abolition of the RAI Supervisory Committee and the fee proportional to income, a sort of withdrawal of purpose as a guarantee for users of plural information. Otherwise, the constitutionalist Enzo Cheli, auditor in the RAI Supervisory Committee on governance reform and the investiture of corporate leadership, would be right: as the reform thought, there is a real risk of transforming the public service into a government agency. Instead, a filter between the two levels, the political-parliamentary and the corporate, should be reached, on the model of a trust or a foundation; however, to an independent, competent and qualified subject. For this reason, with SEL, in the process of discussing the amendments, we will not subtract from the battle to refine and understand where to open the gates, with the objective of the maximum reduction of the damage of a arranged combination that risks changing the rules of the game, mission and corporate vision. In all companies, the separation between management, management and management bodies is essential: it is the balancing of functions and supervision of management that are the basis of democratic functioning. For this reason we insist on the merit of the provision, because we remember the political and associative movement that managed to give a run-in during the approval of the Gasparri law. Those ideas, those people are still there and are troubled by the culture that supports the government bill. Today we would like to determine an even more incisive collective reaction, which does not strictly concern the RAI company and its induced. We should involve civil society, as it was for good school, in order to convey the signal of a strong and cross-cutting critical mass, defending public information as a common good and saying a clear, defined and clear no to a de facto privatised company. This is not an issue that concerns the opposition or maybe only the opposition of SEL, but should involve all forces in parties and associations, so in these hours we will raise the level of attention in defense of a strategic garrison of democracy and the formation of consciences, because RAI must represent a common good, because access to information is a fundamental right guaranteed by our Constitution. That is why we will make our no feel to this major twist that succeeds in the miracle of worsening the same Gasparri law. During these days and months some pearls have been said. Minister Boschi solemnly said that the conflict of interest measure would be scheduled in June, but we have to ask ourselves which year in June. There is no will in this sense. We have taken another pearl on the renewal of the concession, in which the RAI is defined as the current concessionaire, and this word that is used is full of meanings and unfortunately of dark and sad perspectives. As for the whole nominations, there is no idea of mission, nothing has been understood in this sense, but the whole nominations already goes crazy and not only in the newspapers, because it is available to everyone. Different was the excellent work done in the 8th Commission during the reform of the procurement code, which is still recognised to us (even in some statements by President Canton), in which majority and opposition have shown, in the Commission before and in the Chamber then, willingness to confront complicated, tough, even more difficult issues of RAI governance. Here's the result. Therefore, no one talks about opposition obstructionism, because we have measured ourselves on the merits and there has always been the greatest willingness, as there has been on this occasion on the governance of RAI. We have not tabled many amendments, of course we have tabled some important, full-bodied, alternative amendments, but also aimed at reducing the damage, and yet there has been a closure. There has been talk of public service funding and private emitency, but what does that have to do with it? Rather, let us talk about publishing and information as a whole. As Renato Parascandolo, former director of RAI Educational and journalist, remembers well today in the newspapers: "the public service carried out by RAI is a subjective public service, similar to that of the public school; it is such not only because of the kind of subjects it teaches, but because of the public nature of the person who provides it. All this disappears in the Government's proposal. Our no merit of the text is motivated by the fact that we return to before 1975, i.e. under the aegis of the Government: forty years of culture of public information disappear as a common good, which with this proposal becomes authoritarian and at the same time consociative. On CEO and president we see a negotiation and not only in the Senate there are the conditions to perceive it: the appointment of the directors of network can be approved by a simple majority, that of the directors of headship with a majority of two thirds. But then the famous combination between constitutional reform (then Senate of the nominees) and Italicum is such that the majority and the government can go well beyond two thirds of the representation and therefore I regret to say it, but the interior minister Angelino Alfano is right: these laws of the right, Berlusconian, without his party would never have approved. He says you couldn't do it with SEL, and he's right. In the alliance "Italy common good" in fact many others were the contents of the fundamental program and not only for the school, but also for the information. It is true, it was exactly an opposite plant and then what do you expect, before it is too late, to interrupt this dangerous and devastating anti-democratic drift? Even the polls no longer comfort these wretched choices. In front of right-wing policies, some citizens turn to the original subject and at the same time mortify the culture of progress linked to the rights, equality, hardworking sobriety of so many women and men who have made our country great. A people fleeing from the polls is a drama of democracy, more than the result of those who win and lose. Public broadcasting information, enabled to operate, with certain instruments and resources, in the freedom and autonomy of parties, is a fundamental pillar for the material and moral rebirth of our country, shrunk by an economic crisis and values so far unprecedented. If you answer with the occupation by a single party, perhaps generous with those who make a reason for it, in the field of information, culture and entertainment, you cause a damage that risks irreversibility. We at SEL do not make any sense of it: we seek and continue to produce all efforts and initiatives to prevent the word end being written and to open a window from which to start again. The history and the present of RAI-Radiotelevisione italiana and generations of Italians and Italians, as well as future ones, deserve that there is someone who holds a ban, who does not retreat in front of the prospect of having an RAI as a common good. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scibona. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the radio and television system, or rather the reform of RAI-Radiotelevisione italiana SpA, which is then the unique and exclusive concessionary of the Italian public television service. A reform which, to look at the presences and interventions in the Commission, is almost more important than the electoral law itself, perhaps because it deals with the same issue: consensus. In fact, while Italicum regulates access to these scrabbles, this reform regulates the means you prefer to humor the people and translate the ratings into signs on the ballot. We have often witnessed political strategies of the Commonwealth. This is one of those: to flag the modification of the Italian information system in order to hide the reality, the tragic reality, that television in the hands of politics is nothing more than a voter, an electoral system that produces consensus, a sure method to seduce the citizen to bring him into a state of torpor and spell, which has the only objective to divert attention from the serious problems that grip the existence of citizens, a modern panem et circenses in the hands of today's politics (in the hands until now and, with this reform, will continue to do so in the years to come). 10:52 a.m. (SCIBONE followed). We are then at the grotesque when certain television lounges, some white occupied armchair, preceded by an intercom, turn into the third Legislative Chamber of this country, the third Parliamentary Chamber where the Government goes to report, where Matthew makes the announcements, makes the proclamations. This is the evolution, gentlemen: from the balcony of Piazza Venezia to the living room of Vespa. It was more a notary office, where the contracts were signed with the Italians, but now it is where Parliament is told what the Premier's intentions are; and we still here to ask the Government, the Ministers to report. But haven't you figured out yet that if you want someone to report, you have to invite them on television? On the reform is fantastic - I think the correct term is "scientific fantasy" - to listen to the Premier's proclamations filled with necessity, independence and third-party. In fact, on the board of directors, party interference is reduced, but those of the government increase, those of the man only in command, who wants - perhaps - is even worse. In our utopian vision, politics should have stayed out of it, but of course our amendments have not been taken into account: to think well, you have not even read them; to think badly... But you cashed them all out anyway, so there's no problem. What is worse than a policy that interferes with the information system and pretends to be open to ensuring that there is no interference? I can't believe someone's gonna fall for this when they want to carry out reforms that people have been given. What's better than a two-way information system with the government? The foundations for a grateful board of directors are laid, or are left in some ways, that can fly over certain news, perhaps filling the news with futile news, such as: drinking a lot of water to counter the dog. The information, to be correct, super partes, but above all to be "information," that is, the communication of a news, a fact or an event, must respond to truth: it must represent the situation as it is, not as you want to make believe it is. Information, precisely because it is and must be a universal public service, must be for the sole benefit of the citizen, the public, the user of the media. Sic et simpliciter news must be given, without sweetening, without misrepresentation, without justification. It must be independent information, it must not be enslaved to power. Information must not be linked to the Government. RAI is not the press office of Palazzo Chigi. But what am I gonna say? These are obvious things, so obvious that you pretend not to hear them, because you also know that you are true, lapalissian. If we are in the 73rd place for freedom of information, between Moldova and Nicaragua, it is because you have worked well. You have fallen asleep in front of the cathode tube and you would like to transform them in your image and likeness, that is, in " yes man." Finally, where to have illustrated this reform, of which we have not yet found the name since porcellum has already been used, allow me a note of method. This draft law initiates a new parliamentary practice, i.e. a draftsman can also play the role of rapporteur (even if it is a'shadow rapporteur', since we only saw that in the Commission; obviously he was committed to doing something else too). Given the great political importance and the attention to legality demonstrated in recent months by the absenteeist, we would have expected at least a renunciation of the position. But no, excuse me. Actually, the rules and the supposed common sense only apply when they go against the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u25	Madam President, in the reform of the RAI and the public broadcasting system, the scheme does not change once again: the Renzi Government is now proceeding through forced stages. I am pleased that there is this debate in Parliament and I am pleased that during the work in the Commission, for example, Forza Italia has been able to try to improve a text that is still not good today, but, because of the idea of a country that I have and that we have, I would like everyone to participate. Instead, the proposals that come from the Secretary of the Democratic Party - which unites the figure of the President of the Council and the Secretary of the Democratic Party and fails to split them: I understand that it is difficult and many times, as we often say, it also goes into a confused state in proposals and attitudes, it is difficult for him to split the two roles, so when I speak of government, in fact, I speak of the Democratic Party - they always and only go in one direction: the centralization of power and the demeaning of Parliament. Even when a political force like ours in the Commission does a good job and when many of the articles of the previous law, which bears the name of Senator Gasparri, are confirmed almost in full, the goodness of the work carried out is not even recognized, because what interests in this reform is to get hands on the RAI, strengthen the power of the Executive and take it away from Parliament (and we will see in detail why). I say more: everyone should be given a voice on the reform of the RAI. I heard the speeches of colleagues from other political parties and movements earlier. I'd like everyone to participate, at least on issues like these. Not later than two weeks ago we voted yet another (the 40th) confidence placed by the Renzi Government on the school provision; it was not allowed to minorities and the opposition, who also had different positions, to express their opinion constructively, because trust was placed, therefore, of course, no amendments and we move forward with a text that arrives armored: this is and this must be approved. The same is probably true - although the question of trust has not been raised - of the RAI measure. The President of the Council, the Secretary of the Democratic Party, that is, the Government, makes a proposal and the package is closed: he tells his party first of all, with the internal minority pretending to raise its voice, barks, barks, but does not bite because it is reduced to a situation of silence. All texts which are presented are subject to the same fate. On the subject, we have tried to safeguard plurality, because RAI is not the government's. Among other things, I think Renzi is quickly learning that the consensus he had in the European elections, even with 50% of the non-vote (and therefore 40% of the voters), goes down quickly and is no longer sure to return to the government. We have tried to influence plurality and democracy first and foremost with the proposals of the members of the Commission and Senator Gasparri - I recalled before the law bears his name. A reform of the RAI cannot be carried out in which all powers are in the hands of the CEO. It is not about the person or who he will be, but when he puts such a strong and broad power in such a discretionary way in the hands of a person we worry. When the members of the board of directors are reduced - it may be okay to reduce the members because, for example, there are so many bodies around Italy whose members of the board of directors are to be reduced - and two out of seven are to appoint the government gives more strength to the government. We thought that the board of directors should be able to have a voice on the nominations of newspapers, networks and channels. We said that when the two-thirds of the board of directors agree on an appointment this must be binding. Instead something different is done; the whole Government decides; the whole majority party decides and the plurality goes to be blessed. Not to mention the Constitutional Court, which has been giving jurisprudence in a precise and clear sense for forty years. In this regard, we have learned that the Constitutional Court's rulings apply only when they are against someone and do not apply to everyone. The sentences are respected and are not commented on if they are against the political opponents; if, instead, the sentences of the Constitutional Court do not go well with the project that is in the hands of the secretary of the Democratic Party and President of the Council do not comment because we go further: they do not respect and do not comment. On the other hand, when they concern the center-right, they do not comment and respect each other. On the governance of the RAI, the Court also, for forty years, expresses a clear case law. Then there are the issues of the role of the Supervisory Commission and of Parliament, which must be absolutely more important. Let's look at what's been going on for about sixteen months, since Renzi took over the situation by telling Enrico Letta: you're serene. These days, there's been some wiretapping in the papers. I've never talked about wiretapping, in my political path, because I think they need to be reviewed. I think that criminal matters should not be spread as long as proceedings are under way to ensure that they become gossip. There are also double standards for this. When it comes to someone they talk about it for months; when it comes to someone else they emerge in the newspapers, but in twenty-four hours everything is closed. This is an information problem that concerns RAI because it is public service. In this case, too, there are double standards. We have read these interceptions and the hashtag "Enricostaisereno" which depopulated in the network, where still the President of the Council and Secretary of the Democratic Party clearly fails to control what the Italians write to a large extent young people. We have seen that in these sixteen months of the Democratic Party secretary's journey the attitude was like: I'm here; I'm the only one doing it. I must say with regret that we never talk about people. Even with the formation of the government he had an attitude of the kind: "I do everything". It's a mayor's attitude. Maybe the mayor's decision-making should also take place in Parliament's classrooms, but he has made a weak ministerial structure, because he wants to control everything, even in this case. It does so with the trusts and with the new electoral law, because the Italicum travels along with the reform of the RAI. When you expect a prize to the list, which looked like a custom-made dress of the Democratic Party and wanted by the Secretary of the Democratic Party, then you have all the consequences that there are in this plan of reorganization of the RAI. Mr President, once again some good things have tried to put them on us, but it is still not good. The RAI seems to become the copy of the Government: all powers in someone's hands and Parliament doesn't matter anymore. But if it doesn't matter anymore, Parliament doesn't count its citizens anymore. As I believe, however, that citizens matter a lot and I believe that they are realizing what the Secretary of the Democratic Party, the President of the Council and its Government are, the judgment can only be negative. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u26	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed many aspects of broadcasting information and I would like to point out at this point in the debate some issues that I consider to be fundamental. I am not here to defend the current law, which does not need my defence. However, I would like to clarify some of the statements made earlier by some of my colleagues who mentioned, as was inevitable, the law that was passed in 2004. I do so objectively, without any sense of frustration because we reopen the debate on this matter, nor vanity because the law, eleven years later, retains its centrality. First clarification: Law No 112 of 2004, the so-called Gasparri law, consists of 29 articles. When I say that the law remains intact I tell the truth because we are discussing one of the 29 articles that were then transfused into the unique text of radio television where these articles coexist with so many other norms that have been launched since the 1970s. Now, we are discussing one of those very important articles: the one concerning the designation of RAI summits which is a matter but is not the most important issue. I would also like to remind you, and I say this to the current government as a method reference, that when we presented the law of reform of the radio and television system in September 2002, the article that we are discussing and that we are changing was not written by the government at the time, not for forgetfulness or distraction, but because we said that on the governance of the RAI we wanted Parliament to decide. In fact, the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which I will quote because I would like this intervention to be a moment of summary of the positions, said that this matter should be addressed by Parliament. At the time, the RAI advisors were five and were appointed by the Presidents of the Chamber and Senate who publicly invoked the amendment of the norm because they wanted to be removed from pressure and stress. The article entrusted to the Parliamentary Supervisory Committee concerning the election of RAI members, nine, with the President becoming such if the two-thirds of the Supervisory Committee ratify the election, stems from the parliamentary debate. One of the speakers was Senator Romani Paolo, who is still operational and who holds a very important office in this Assembly. There were many discussions at the time and I recall that the then leftist oppositions did not vote against, but abstained from voting on this article because it responded to principles of pluralism. I am therefore not here to defend the Gasparri law because it does not need it - it survives brilliantly - but pluralism, democracy and the Constitution. In fact, Parliament's role is central, ladies and gentlemen, not that of the partitioning party. In the long history of RAI have there been episodes of political interference and partition? Of course I do! Excellent people have also been chosen according to political assessments. Politics has not always chosen somari, as the famous joke that has been repeated also in these days according to which RAI were chosen one of a party, one of another party and then a good one. The good one, sometimes, was among those who came from political cultures. The Constitutional Court, in its judgment n. 225 of 1974, forty-one years ago, reiterated the centrality of Parliament and said that the governing bodies of the managing body should not be constituted in such a way as to represent, directly or indirectly, the exclusive or predominant expression of the executive power, that is, the Government, and that therefore they were recognized (it is the Constitutional Court of 1974) adequate powers to Parliament, which institutionally represents the entire national community. What is the reasoning, ladies and gentlemen, that is being done? Public service must be pluralist and respectful of democracy. The government represents a part of it, the one that won at a given historical moment, but Parliament represents all the parts, the ones that win and the ones that lose, and the public service must be the son of all the parties. Then those with the most votes count the most, but this is called non-participatory democracy. The Court reiterates this principle in 1987 and states that RAI is a social service aimed at ensuring the free expression of thought and free information, considered as two essential and inseparable aspects of a single constitutional value primarily protected by Article 21 of the Constitution. This ruling speaks of the orbit of Parliament, the parliamentaryisation of the address and the management of the public service. From 1974 to 1987 thirteen years have passed, the members of the Court had all changed (the mandates last nine years), so another world makes the same statements. From 1987 to 2009 twenty-two years pass, the members of the Court change two or three times and say the same thing. On the occasion of a dispute over the revocation of Councillor Petroni, appointed by the Government, the 2009 Court order speaks of the affirmation of the centrality of Parliament (it seems to me a paradox to make a political battle in Parliament to defend its centrality, but this is also the case) in the government of the public broadcasting system and recalls the judgments of 1975 and 1987 and mentions the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services, which is defined by the Constitutional Court as the natural institutional seat, in which the pluralist principle that must inform the entire public broadcasting sector finds the most effective guarantee, both with regard to access to social formations, and with regard to mechanisms that guarantee the presence of a plurality of sources of information. We therefore return to the parliamentaryisation, to the role of the parliamentary supervisory committee which, if neglected, could lead to negative consequences - according to the Court - for the free expression of thought and free information. The Court's ruling No 69 of 2009 states that the supervisory committee's management functions must be assigned to the parliamentary body in view of the impartiality, democracy and pluralism that must inform the public service of the activities of the television and opposes and disputes the direct and exclusive interference of the Executive. I quote these judgments, because the amendments come from them. We have read of all kinds, who has won and who has lost. The government wanted to issue a decree-law and did not, because, in the light of these judgments, it would have been a largely unconstitutional act, since for forty years the Court has ruled on this matter, with different people and at different times: the seventies are far away, but 2009 is the day before yesterday. Therefore a decree-law could not be issued, as had been announced; one could not ignore the parliamentary source. The text presented by the Government provides that four of the seven councillors are elected, not by the Supervisory Board, but by the Chamber and Senate. It is a parliamentary source, so there are no problems, it is done for the communications authorities, for the MSC and for many bodies. I do not want to open up controversy here, Mr Giacomelli, because the President-in-Office of the Council is led to invective and offensive, but the reduction of the numbers of his consent and his liking is an appropriate sanction to his prosopopopea. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I am therefore content with the decrease in consensus and not with the nonsense he said overspeaking. Someone said that 1,500 amendments are too many. Our Group has made an objection of merit, as the rapporteurs Ranucci and Buemi and the Undersecretary Giacomelli know. We defended the Constitution, the judgments of the Court. Some thesis was accepted, but it was not the thesis of Gasparri, of Romani Paolo, of the other colleagues of our Group in the Commission: they were thesis inspired by constitutional principles. As for the relationship between the managing director and the board of directors, since we believe that the latter is an expression of pluralism, democracy and Parliament, in our opinion it must not see its powers conculcated, not in order to divide the deputy director or subcommission, as well as in the history of RAI, but in order to respect pluralism. We therefore did not need to table 700 or 800 amendments - I tell colleagues from other groups. We have tabled 100 of them, of which the essential ones are even less, because we do not have to do 'inciuci' or prevent a free discussion. We are defending positions and principles; then we can shift Parliament's role from vigilance to the House, we can otherwise determine the relationship between those who manage and those who direct, there can be a CEO in place of the Director-General, but some basic principles must be reaffirmed. There could not be a decree, nor could there be a vote of confidence, and I am speaking in particular to those Members who have tabled hundreds of amendments. I could say: "Well, the law is not done, the Gasparri law remains and I would be very pleased. What interests me, however, is that we defend a principle of constitutionality on the pluralism and democracy of the RAI. We must therefore be careful, since trust cannot be put: in the light of the judgments of the Court, in fact, the Government cannot override and, since trust is a power of the Government, as with a decree-law it would conflict with the judgments of the Court, so it cannot be done. We should therefore have a debate on the substance, so it is pointless to table hundreds of amendments and I say that I could be pleased if the current law were to remain. In any case, then the other 28 articles would remain. Senator Cucchetti, I listened to your speech: you have always dealt with these subjects, you wrote articles when you were a journalist: today you are a politician, even if you joke, but as you know, I always tell you that your role as a journalist was certainly even higher than the important one you hold in Parliament. As you know, we launched the Integrated Communications System (SIC), saying that for the purposes of antitrust television, newspapers, the Internet and advertising were a whole and that therefore the antitrust limit should be considered as a whole. We were told that we were doing it to defend Mediaset and Berlusconi. Today, however, my friends, in only one object - whether tablet, smartphone or other medium - we find newspapers (which no longer find advertisements), television, Internet, Google, Amazon. The concentration that we have identified in the law today is in these tools and the problem is how to prevent the telematic media from plundering editorial content. In fact, if TG1, TG5 or CNN send an envoy to the Middle East where there is a conflict, they must pay him the salary, the hotel, they must assure him, so that the publisher will have a cost and it is not fair that the first computer operator steals that service or those images and offers us them for free. You might say it's nice to have things for free, but who will produce more information if there's no proper recognition? Mr Giacomelli, we also said in the Commission that we share the need for innovative legislation. We made a law in 2004; there has been a technological evolution. Now we must also go on to regulate the pillaging of the contents at international level. Years ago Adriano Celentano wrote an article on the "Corriere della Sera" to defend himself as a musical author. There was in fact the problem of music, that there is still: the kids on the net do not spend a euro to listen to the music, that you could also buy on iTunesla music and therefore in byte, electronically paying the right. Celentano, complaining about the looting of music - because many on the net take the music without paying it - used a beautiful image, saying that, if the bread did not pay, no one would make the baker. Who would go at night to knead the bread, to do a tiring job, if in the morning one went to the counter and took the bread for free? It is said to give free bread to those who do not have money and means, but the others must pay it. Information, knowledge, culture and music must be paid, at least as far as publishing is concerned; then minimal information is collected free of charge. We must then be concerned about how electronic looting can be regulated today: copyright and creativity must be safeguarded. From this point of view, undersecretary Giacomelli, Italy must promote an international initiative at European level. Let us think of Google, for example, which puts the tax office on the one hand, another location on the other: today, fortunately, the European Union has awakened and wants to sanction it. Google is a wonder, we can know everything in real time, but who puts the information, who is the publisher, who creates - public, private, Italian, Congolese, American or Canadian - must see its creativity protected. This is the groundbreaking area we need to discuss. I have already said about the role of RAI, pluralism and parties. I know Sergio Zavoli will speak after me, which is certainly a reference for the country, not only for a political part and I say it with the respect that President Zavoli knows I bring him. You have to be careful. Sometimes I see that there is a "musealizing" vision of RAI. It is said that RAI has to do quality programs, it exalts the beauty of the RAI that broadcast "Il millo del Po" and everyone saw that TV screenplay taken from classical Italian literature. Of course, RAI must also develop culture. But when we all saw - I was a child and I remember - "The mill of the Po" there was only that channel. Someone forgets it: there was not an object called remote control and so everyone saw the Po's mill. Maybe it was good. Do we want to go back to the one channel for which we all need to see one television? It's no longer possible. Today the RAI has 13 channels and certainly is broadcasting a film, a piece of history, one of culture, one of classical music. Then there are also One Morning, recipes, cooking, Tour de France and I don't know what else. I repeat, 13 channels: the forecast of the opening of the market and the pluralism that we had hoped for and achieved with the law of 2004 has been realized. There is no more Mediaset and RAI duopoly. Apart from the fact that there are other publishers as small as La7. Today the first operator in terms of turnover is Sky, my friends, who joined the two satellite televisions of the time, which were limping, and created a colossus. Today, even in the recent rankings proposed by the Authority for the guarantees in communications the first operator as turnover is precisely Sky, which in turn merged the Italian, German and English companies to hold a world market. Therefore, the antitrust authorities must be there, but they must not condemn companies to dwarfism. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] This mistake would bring the Italian, public and private communication and culture industry to its knees. And what would be scandalous, undersecretary Giacomelli, if even the RAI - which today has 13 channels and already with the legislation in force could release branches of the company - in the field of sport made an agreement with a sports editorial group and used the channels RAI Sport 1 or RAI Sport 2? What would be scandalous if RAI Cinema made deals with private film operators and offered non-reproduced films five or six times (even if Sky projects them 54 times a day)? So, we don't have to have a museum vision. I used to quote Zavoli. Sergio Zavoli I saw him on television telling with "The birth of a dictatorship" the Italian events and tragedies of the early twentieth century. I have seen him tell the story of the most recent Italian history, with "The Night of the Republic" on terrorism in the 1970s, with interviews that perhaps the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Moro case, of which I am a member, should be concerned, because they already told the truth about terrorism and the Red Brigades. But Sergio Zavoli became popular and loved by Italians when he told - and it is a recognition, it is not a deminutio - the Giro d'Italia, with the process at the stage, where there were humanity, social custom. It was the Giro d'Italia, it was the news of those who fought the Pink Sweater. And what's wrong with RAI, with national-popular information, winning a record that still keeps? Sometimes those who contest the law, as well as harm the Parliament whose powers should be exalted, speak badly of RAI they forget that it still beats private competition: TG1 beats TG5, RAI 1 beats Channel 5. Why? There is no state obligation. Evidently because, even if we talk about it badly, even if there are many bad things and each of us has the programs that we prefer, during the day it is possible to see something of quality, other of lesser quality, a sports program, a program of I don't know what else, but on the whole it offers a consumable product. I want the quality, but be careful not to be illuminating receptors. You would expect that the commuter who has worked all day, who comes home hot - as you know the metro in Rome doesn't work well - coming home at 9 p.m. should look at a special on Majakovsky with a unique network. I don't want to sound ignorant or iconoclastic, but guys, calm down! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] There are 13 RAI channels plus everything else. Someone will also find the monograph on Majakovsky. If he likes it he will see it: besides it is like going to the library where you can buy what you want and then you will choose the lightest book, yellow, or more challenging books. I'm not offending the quality, but I'm contesting the elitist trait of some people who don't happen to see it but would like the blind and ignorant people to consume only a few things. It's a lack of mentality. We, who have been considered the enemies of the public service and who instead defend it, also defend a plural offer, an offer of programs on the history of recent or oldest Italy, but also tell the sport, the Giro d'Italia or consumer products. Days ago I discovered that it exists on the digital terrestrial, of which I was also the father, "Gazzetta TV" - I didn't know it existed and I never followed it - because they broadcast the America Cup of football. And so, since the America Cup of football is interesting for those who love sport - I also have this defect, I don't practice it, but I follow it - I went to tune in on that digital channel, for its interesting content. If there hadn't been an interesting content for me, I wouldn't have looked at that channel. So, let's leave the Italians free to choose. Today they can choose precisely thanks to evolution. I see time is going on, but the arguments are broad and exciting. So, Madam President, from here I'll stop. As I said, we leave Italians free to choose. With that law we have multiplied the offer on digital terrestrial, we have not prevented new technologies from asserting themselves (Sky), we have allowed public and private operators to operate and act by gaining consensus on the market. Today an Italian can listen to a concert at 21, but he can also watch Commissioner Montalbano, who I have never seen and I don't like, but he seems to have a certain success. Then let's leave this country free to choose. We, Undersecretary Giacomelli, will insist on certain issues, such as, for example, the powers of the Board of Directors. And I did not insist on the amendments, because I was interested in making general and systemical considerations. We don't defend anyone's interest. We defend the interest of a rich and plural radio and television system, in which all operators were able to act and grow. We want to confront everyone on the innovative fields of technology, but we want to defend those judgments, that pluralism and that role of Parliament, of which, in this debate too, we have been and will be the guarantors. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zavoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, everything has already been said, for good or for bad, of a hard and responsible test entrusted to Parliament by the Government of the Republic. And to touch on the last words of this first review of the opinions expressed by the House, based on the initial report by my colleague, Mr Ranucci (thank you), who described to us the hard work of the Commission in charge, I certainly could not claim to retrace the varied grid of a debate already largely outlined. I would ask you, therefore, to allow me to reflect on a matter which is limited to a problem on which I believe this House can recognize a common need: the simple and natural interest in a language that speaks every day, every hour, every minute to public opinion: information. I think, because of the dignity that belongs to each of us in the responsible exercise of our work, that I can invite you to share the scrupulousness, not intellectual or ideological, to find ourselves faced with a reality of those that recall to mind a philosophical artifice according to which, "for history, everyone is right at the same time." It is a paradox, already denied by the vote expressed on the prejudices placed on what, from today, will immerse us in the articulation of the bill. Even if coming after Gasparri, after many years, it reminds me of many different but stimulating recklessness. Thanks anyway, Gasparri, for your memories. The important thing, said Flaiano, is to exaggerate! I wonder, to return to the premise, what fate we would be living if we were to face the reform with a disaster economy, to what further and even more serious sacrifices we would be subjected to, and who knows how much it would cost us the permanent marginality of the country. Do not make me wrong to believe that on the one hand I want to discredit and, on the other hand, to gratify someone, I am pleased that Europe has had to recognize in Italy a country saved from the disaster to Greece thanks to having responded, with the policy of reforms, to the rules according to which, moreover, we are also fully European citizens. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dissemination tends to underline the idea of having to interpret a great and complex interest of the country, making cohesion - one of the most pronounced by President Napolitano - a collective choice, not just a personal predisposition. I still believe that distances should be taken not only where the distance is generated, but where the right to diversity is guaranteed, renewing a lesson coming from afar, against that syndrome of incommunicability that, in our history, has produced impervious and tearing legacy. And here an idealist without illusions - as I believe I am - asks you to be able to face this reform, in whose architecture in no way I have participated, sticking to the matter that has fed three quarters of my professional, civil and political life. I am grateful to Amartya Sen, Nobel laureate for the economy, who attributed to the Information the second of the greatest powers expressed by this restless contemporary, immediately after that of Finance. Italy, like all the countries of the European Union, is based on the assumption that - declared the scholar - the information system is the one that expresses the objectively most representative quality of a modern society. I immediately return to the premise: the media reality, lived not only in the West - without prejudice to any approximation - is today facing a storm aroused at the beginning of the century. Are we sure 11 September 2001 wasn't the terrifying incipit of what's happening? And did it take about 15 years to get an awareness of what was ripening? Why would 70 percent of the country still today not know what created the crisis and why it was born in America? And why do you know so little about your current trend? Why are finance and banks still at the centre of serious and lasting responsibilities? Have we grasped the reasons for the Greek crisis and the reasons for the sometimes unbearable severity of a part of the Union? Have we got a reasonable idea of the ethical and moral, civil and political disaster raised by the tragedy of migrants? Why does the fall of solidarity and piety remain so alive alongside trials of extraordinary commonality? Why is the criterion of trust so declined, and the feeling of hope drowsed? Do we believe, today, to correctly interpret the projects of fundamentalism in the roles it has come to assume? Have we understood what principles the religious storm calls into question, extremed to the forms taken by the most barbaric fanaticism? Where can the destructive phenomenon of millenarian values come when the statues are also decapitated, because they bear witness to a beauty originating from the civilizations of the "infidels"? Why does 80 percent of readers and viewers not know, do not remember, nor would they know how to attribute the names of those who represent portions of countries, peoples, religions and cultures, in the vast and multiple places where unspeakable violence is manifested? What does the public see, in the words of the solicitous and educated editorials, not familiar with difficult languages? Could this not be the sign of some crisis of my profession, considering the progressive distance of a public opinion increasingly inclined to desert politics until the inerte, mortifying refusal to vote? And so on, between believing that you know and doubt, absolving and indignant. Noting the difficulty of having better information of the society that expresses it, while on the one hand it is necessary to guarantee the media the respect of the norms that protect its freedoms - rather than threatening them, and even reducing its constitutional values - has ruled for a long time a mentality that is smitten by unloved, or extremed contexts, determining social stereotypes of behavior, adapting to the most raced model, the weariness of the parties and the demagogic Lucerre of populism on their weaknesses. Much, in the meantime, has returned to personal interpretations, which have gradually become more fungible and opportunistic, while freedom of expression postulates distinctions precisely to safeguard the rights of a real pluralism, which is not, that is, the sum of so many fatiosity. A policy that does not keep its internal debate alive and active, if it leaves - for example - the roles of the majority and the minority, that is the most natural democratic dialectic, puts at risk a common resource; but a communication that could no longer distinguish between opportunism and a protest based on legitimate demands, theoretical and daily, would also risk creating a serious weakening of democracy, admonished De Tocqueville, one who meant it. How to react, if some kind of academic, almost bigot secularism forbids public service televisions to take on a civilly pedagogical task, on the pretext of having to ontologically separate information and education? I have here before me these words of Karl Popper, the great liberal philosopher, taken from a strong interview by Maria Teresa De Vito: "Distinguishing between educating and informing is not only false, but definitely dishonest. My opinion is based on the assumption that there can be no information that does not express a certain tendency, and this is already clear in the choice of content when you have to choose what people will have to be informed about. Television professionals have a great responsibility not to evade the obligation to educate. Here is the point: the reform calls for the education of public opinion to reflect, compare and judge on the basis of the need not to protect unanimity, but responsibilities and choices. The dramatic chronicles of European politics on the Greek question warn us that we are no longer saving one at a time, less having to accept a defeat with the idea that we will have to pay for it the weakest part of the people. In no century - it has been said - information expressing complexity had been so threatened in its natural purpose, while a new alarm implied that speaking and deceiving, often, become synonymous. We must encourage the conviction that one account is to inform and another is to communicate: in the first case some news passes, in the second one some contents remain. It follows that if I speak to you for this I change you; and you never come out completely free from such a confrontation, provided that it involves giving yourself loyally the word about what interests you both, that is, how much you have to draw from the excitement of living today; including this reform, which we ask to help eliminate the growing and shameful electronic indisstinction between numbers and people. I hope that the search for the "good to live well" leaves just as much credit and space to the categories of ethics: a strict word, not edifying, debased by a virtuous resonance that makes it rhetorical and instrumental, often in persuasion that everything is possible at the same time is also lawful, without being dazzled by the peremptory synthesis that only rational is real or vice versa, only rational is real, or vice versa. It will be good to know, and of course believe, that information and politics are not gold-collared, but there has never been such a need for one and the other as when, themselves, they seem to allow us to turn our backs on them, and this in order to avoid the tragic hypothesis - this yes - that only one reality and one thought survive. " Primum inform, " stated Luigi Einaudi, inaugurating, with the Republic, our "Heri dicabamus." And the BBC continues to whisper to the articles of our reform its three timeless words: informing, educating, entertaining... The RAI - it is well known - has carried out for many decades a civil mission of enormous importance in the fight against illiteracy, in the unification of the spoken language, in the acculturation of great masses, in the formation of the middle class, in strengthening the sense of national identity. In other words, it has helped to form a new sphere of public opinion, then restricted, and reserved, to the most educated classes. However, the state of school and cultural backwardness remains dramatic: more than 15 million citizens have only the elementary license and are therefore unable to absorb non-elementary learning; 88 percent of the population has their own reference in broadcasting communication; our "television diet" is more than four hours a day: for those who know how to do this, just ten minutes divide us from the United States. We are in the 73rd place in the world ranking of freedom of information; only 7 percent are the usual readers of books and the presences in the traditional places of acculturation - theatres, museums, cinemas, concert halls and libraries - are still altogether residual, although, to be honest, the cultural sector has received a significant revival for just a year. Of the 27 countries of the European Union, Italian families are in 22nd place for Internet access and 4 out of 10 citizens have never had a computer at their hands. These figures must be able to add to the comparisons to which we are called the necessary penalty when a reform takes decisions that can promote cultural growth and the judgment of millions of citizens; knowing that, if RAI, instead of being redone, came out reduced in its perspectives of cultural promotion, in a couple of generations Italy would progressively lose the historical memory of its past. All of us, then, would be weaker in informing and being informed, in knowing more about the world around us, of the social realities with their protagonists and their extras, and of the tools to enter the future. This reform is among the most difficult and modern, because it is interested in the multifaceted and updated scenario of a world that unfolds before us indicating the new plurality of reality. In addition, reform is urgent because it is part of a dimension which requires, at the same time, the defence of national identity with a view to a Europe induced to reconsider, after the case Greece, new issues and decisions. This implies that a representation of the world offered with the current, theoretical guarantee of fidelity to our history, risks remaining a vicarious experience of reality precisely because one lives it through the many more or less explicit interferences of that political order that permeates the areas and confuses the roles delegated to represent transparency. That Nietzsche was right when he said: "There are no facts, but only interpretations"? On this theme Aldo Grasso could entertain us with complex topics, for example by addressing the unavoidable roles of technology and the market, beyond opportunisms and infatuations impressed in the traditions, and of course in the interests, corporate, to which the palimpsests are linked, with the danger of transforming an enriching mode of information, such as - for example - the original talk show, in its explanatory and indulging way, which in the misconceived rivalry of some epigons has seen gradually premiere the characters more prone to confrontation than confrontation, in which the modes and populistic tones raised the decibels by bringing down the discussion on the ground of a vocal supremacy. It is the result of the choice of those who have transformed a moderator - here the RAI, for the truth, has nothing to do with it - into a more authoritative and daring antagonist of its guests, to give the debate a more pressing tone. So much so that, without prejudice to the residual respectable talk show inaugurated by Santoro, today Aldo Grasso summarizes the phenomenon writing that "finished their power propulsive, today the talk shows are boredom, narcissism, chicken coop." I believe that, for the sake of homeland, he has flown over the already agreed, peaceful distribution of the characters that arouse the greatest listening, allowing each of them to overcome the television presences of the President of the Council, and ending up directing on the skilled, suggestive fire-starters - to put it this way - crowded with consents and votes. It also happens with that entertainment that, in order to authenticate its seriousness, often has on billboards problems of chronicle mostly black, in function of a show that arouses the painful success of the pain. These are often generous intentions, even noble ones, but the bulimia of the containers is likely to increase the dismeasures required not only by the spectacularization, but also by the ancient and repudiated rating of satisfaction, finished in a abandoned warehouse in Via Teulada. Not to mention the so-called popular programs, which have never seen - for example - as many cooks and pans as in times of crisis. What often deforms the function of entertainment is the summary of that "evil of living" that feeds so much of the generalist television. And it is a problem not psychological, neither interior, nor the "good of living well": it is a question of mere teleguided duty, without moral implications, and certainly does not need emphasising, if anything - a surveyor would say - of other measures. Psychologists and pedagogists have revealed how the so-called "willing energy" of young people is becoming increasingly weak; and this has happened since, with the greatest improvisation, they have been slowly exhausted of the first logics of learning, that is, analysis, judgment and choice, making it a reality irrelevant from the social point of view and winning, on everything, the reality that appears, that is, its representation. Another reform, that of the school, will do much about it. This is what made the cultural revolution produced by television resounding. As for today, the risk of promoting a different mythology must be avoided, that of believing that the technological revolution is synonymous with a revolution of social relations, considering that communication is, after all, a social practice. But an ideal universe, made up of billions of people who, thanks to television, can get to know each other, understand each other and fraternize, is a consoling, even conservative, vision of the world's problems. "My way of living and speaking, of imagining and of wanting is now, in an unspeakable way, conditioned by television" he wrote with desolate realism Saul Bellow, and thought of the most fragile in the face of that solitary and unarmed admission. It was now undeniable that the children, socialized by the television screen much more than by the school and even by the family, entrusted much of their imagination to the television translations of the real, and therefore had some recognition of the idea that they thought, desired, played in the same way. Neil Postman, in a book dedicated to this phenomenon, went so far as to say that, with the advent of television, the traditional dimension of childhood was over. It remained true, however, that television, in many ways extraordinarily valuable, loved to abolish fantastic mediations, to skip hypotheses, to anticipate judgments, in short, to offer everything, and immediately, to everyone. But there remained an irrevocable wealth: "Imagination is the highest way of thinking," said the creatives, relegated to their extraordinary riches. Woe if all our life and thinking, suffering and joy, were reduced to a vague, inextinguishable anecdote about us and our life: so they mediated the realists, for whom the society of new needs was protected from the danger of being dominated, or even influenced, by abstract mental theorems or even of consciousness. Elias Canetti, the author of "Massa e potere" showed up, asking "how much time we would have left to see the worst," that is, the real danger, the most insidious, that of his lack of perception. Here, too, is the need for a reform that helps to believe, then to live, something more logical and therefore more human, even if more complex. A reform which seeks to achieve this return must already be measured with its most reasonable feasibility. In other words, it is necessary to work so that the ever more engaging quantity of data and images acquired from the new technological archives, but also from the hidden humanism of memory, does not end up feeding a process of alienation from reality in so many social and political microcosms that weaken the present and hold the future. It is a generational problem, not a virtuous panacea, ready to offer its fruits immediately. But television must be given a fundamental role in contributing - together with other actors, and integrating with them - to the defence of the cultural and civil identity of a country. Its centrality requires a point of balance and guarantee with respect to the risks that a purely technocratic communication system could cause. I have experienced three reforms, and I think I know how we need to prepare ourselves to innovate courageously, setting up new scenarios and so many security exits. I know that I speak - not because I am motivated by feelings - of a professional body judged among the best in Europe, and I would add to the world; this postulates integrated civil and cultural growth projects to which a prompt and effective political initiative will have to be assigned. And those who have direct responsibility for a public radio and television service must in turn govern a plurality of opinions and interests that represent a given participant and responsible for the national and international scenario. It is a task of trusting, difficult, continuous reconnaissance in the reality of a country that works for the solution of problems not only its own - but also other forces, ideal and concrete - to be faced and resolved within a dimension, at least, continental. I venture to ask - since it is a hypothesis that, after all, has a crucial connection with information - if it is not a matter for reflection the problem of giving the newspapers, that is to say the subjects that in their rich and complex articulation represent a real information system, made of different tasks, skills and languages - and here I address to the Undersecretary Giacomelli - an editorial direction, which is added to those already foreseen, in order to complete the centrality of the primary function attributed to the managing director; that is, by entering among the fundamental sectors of the Company, together with production, administration and finance, also information, that transforms us into an unspeakable number of invisible Dedalus, the hero of Joyce: with a share that no algorithm would be able to deliver to our very human prides. We must believe that we would still have one thing to say even when we felt that we had nothing more to say. So you will have to keep thinking and doing. It will be the conviction in our task to keep alive an inescapable commonality, because outside of it, in the end, against ourselves we would always and only find ourselves. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and LN-Aut and Senators Bocchino, Romans Maurizio, Bencini and De Pietro. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u30	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u31	I call the rapporteur, Senator Ranucci.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u32	Madam President, let me first say a few words about the last speech. President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. However, I allow myself, Mr President, to thank you, because today you gave me - but I believe the whole Senate - an essay on what information is. I believe that it must be a point of reference not only in relation to this bill and not only for RAI, but also for all those involved in the media. It's one of those days, Senator Zavoli, when you feel proud to be senators. You, in your speech, paid tribute to this Senate as an institution, and so thank you, President, I truly believe on behalf of all my colleagues. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senators Bencini and De Pietro]] I'm not going to try to answer everyone exactly, I'm just going to resume some speeches to figure out where there may be some meeting points. I begin with the intervention of Senator Crosio, focusing on some issues that he addressed, such as - for example - local television. I remind Senator Crosio that there has been an approach, an intention to put at the center the local televisions for the service they carry out on the territory, in order to recognize also a public service of the local televisions. On the greater role and the greater resources, I believe that in the delegation that we have redesigned - it has been rewritten in the Commission itself - we have taken this aspect into account. The intervention of the State and the Regions within the new board of directors with the new Senate - I remember that it will be composed of representatives of State and of the Regions - can be a further aspect on which we can find points of agreement. Senator Carraro, you say the criteria are Byzantine. This is not the case: the board of directors is much slimmer than before. The Supervisory Board will have only one report and will not intervene every fifteen days or every week on the transmission that goes or does not go. It is clear that every six months a Board of Directors will have to report to the Supervisory Board, which will supervise it, as many others have pointed out, as the RAI has a parliamentary reference. Senator Carraro said that maybe you need to do a little more sports. He's right. She suggested transmitting less fiction and more sports. I believe that more fiction and more sport should be transmitted. I believe that RAI should be a public service and should not delegate the great events to others. The Senator Council spoke of a universality of the RAI message, which I believe to be one of the fundamental points. The RAI needs to talk to everyone. We have now heard - Senator Zavoli reminded us - how important a universal message is. As in another speech by a Senator of the League, who I will then resume, there has been talk of the broadcasting of radio and television broadcasts throughout the national territory, I would point out that we wanted to put exactly one point in the delegation - we introduced it in the Commission - recalling that the broadcasting of television and radio broadcasts of the public service must take place throughout the national territory, meeting the reasoning that too often some areas (valleys or mountain areas) are neglected. It is a commitment that we ask the government to take on. Senator Fornaro, thank you for your speech. As always, you go to the core of the problems. We have a different view of the dual system and the system with CEO, but some points of his observations can be resumed. Banca Intesa is also reviewing the dual system because it did not work and we are talking about a bank that has different ends. The system with the strengthening of the managing director and a vigilance that supervises - I would like to remember that the supervision supervises and does not appoint and does not give the daily addresses - has a diversity. I hope that when we look at the amendments, we will be able to find points of contact taking into account the various issues. With regard to the issue of the employee representative, which you raised, I think it is obvious that he is not just an employee but can be an employee representative. In this regard it is necessary to be very clear: it is not a trade union representative of the employees, but a member of the board of directors elected to represent that specific member of the company. I know you know that, but since I often hear trade unions say that trade union representatives are already there, I would like to make it clear that this is not the job of the employee representative. I would remind you that in many multinational and international companies, especially in the Scandinavian countries, even private boards of directors include one or two trade union representatives. I have heard an entrepreneur from a multinational company say that, in his company, there are two directors representing the trade unions and the trade unions themselves have stated that only one is enough, that it is not only necessary to understand and supervise but also to take into account the views of the trade union. Senator Pagnoncelli posed a problem related to advertising and canon, which emerged in many interventions. I believe that RAI needs publicity and canon. If we were to choose one of the two sources, we would do damage on one side or the other. Imagine RAI only advertising. Senator Gasparri recalled SIC: If RAI were to advertise only, think what influence it would have on all other media and newspapers. That would be a disaster. If it were to have only the canon, it would have to be as high as that of all other European countries. And I remember that because we are talking about a fee of 113 euros. Perhaps, as emerged in some interventions such as that of Senator Cervellini, we could find a system of calculating the fee proportional to income or predict, that are all points on which I believe, that in the course of discussion, we can surely find a meeting. Senator Arrigoni talked about local television. It seems to me that these issues have already been dealt with and that perhaps they can be improved, but on which a great deal has already been done to give quality public televisions a role of service on the territories, as has been said several times. Senators Cioffi and Airola, many of the points you have touched are absolutely acceptable and I hope that, in the course of the debate, we will be able to find a meeting point. We are talking, in fact, about transparency, about positive requirements and requirements that I do not like to define negative, but that do not allow to be board member and managing director. Goodness and transparency are absolutely acceptable, but I do not think that being a Member of Parliament or a Senator is a sin. Therefore, to say that those who have been parliamentary can no longer do, for seven or ten years, the managing director or the managing director of the RAI, I think it is like pointing out a fault. Perhaps it is good to specify those who are currently unable to hold this post, but I believe that we will be able to find a meeting point in this respect with the amendments that have been tabled. I repeat to Senator Airola that when we talk about good repute, delegations, positive profiles or those that are obstructive, I believe that on these points in the amendments I have already seen many elements that we can accept. Senator Malan referred to Jefferson and the importance of the media. I believe that in this regard, as you mentioned, good work has been done in the Commission and I do not think that there is, as you say, a super partisan representative, that no one lacks a political idea, but that there can be managers who can have less influence, and there are many managers who have political ideas but do not express them. Therefore, in my opinion on this point we can find a synthesis, but surely looking for someone who is super parts helps us to have a much more efficient and effective RAI. I would also like to thank Senator Margiotta for his words that have highlighted a point that I really like. In my report, in fact, I spoke about RAI in the 1960s and he said that he would like today's RAI to help us make a new Europe. I believe that we must look at the reform of the RAI with this vision; that is, we must consider a RAI that does not just look inside our home, continuing to fight for hours or minutes on the information that is given. Instead, we need to look at the formation of Europe, and this takes up the very speech of Senator Zavoli who invites us to fly high and not always stay in our daily lives. Senator Pelino, I believe that, as you wished, work in this House will be able to improve the text as it was in the Commission. I also thank Senator Volpi who, recalling also the role of RAI in training, has opened dialogue with the Government, so I hope that these points can be traced back to an innovative substance within the bill. Senator Gasparri, I am not referring to the whole part of your speech on constitutional references, because I am convinced that the draft law under consideration respects them, as four board members are of parliamentary origin, so Parliament certainly has a prevalence within the board of directors; therefore, I believe that, as the Authority for the Guarantees in Communications has also told us, the constitutional dictates are respected. There is no Gasparri law or Ranucci law; there is a law for RAI; therefore, in order to try to improve it, it is necessary to disregard those who have made it, from those who have signed it, from those who are there or who are not, so these polemics are absolutely far from me. Then, if there are errors in a law, they must be highlighted and tried to improve the text, although I am very convinced that, as you well know, it is important to improve governance and therefore to remove those powers - which you know very well - of the Supervisory Committee, which is often called for because a programme has gone well or because someone has spoken badly. With the approval of the reform, the Supervisory Commission will monitor and no longer give direction, so it will no longer have the strength of before and I believe that this is a good result for everyone. However, I would like to make a few comments on a subject that is very shared and I would like to make it clear to everyone. There was no mishap when we removed from Article 5 the whole part concerning new media and platforms. This is a fundamental point and I would like us to remember it in this House. On this issue there was a motion tabled by the Democratic Party and voted in this House. It was considered, therefore, that this is a very broad topic, which also concerns broadband: I remind in particular President Matteoli, who is sitting next to me, what we have talked about these issues in the Commission, asking the Government to make a bill - or there will be a draft parliamentary law - to get to grips with these issues. With regard to rights and copyright, we talked a lot about it: we talked, for example, about iTunes. How is it conceivable that today a song or book should be free on platforms, on various smartphones or tablets? I believe that rights must be protected from technology. As for the top ten - I was talking about it just yesterday with my colleague Airola - today they occupy 80% of the network without paying anything. I believe that this is a problem that we have to ask ourselves because, while we continue to ask for investment in our large telecommunications companies, we are then faced with an 80 per cent occluded network from the top ten. It is as if we were building a huge highway and this was then 80 percent occupied by trucks or by a huge line that does not pay: there is something that does not work. I think that all this must therefore be put together and the hope is that this can be done in a bill. In conclusion, I am convinced that this is a draft law of governance and also of reform: there has been talk of canon, which must remain such as to guarantee the economic and financial autonomy of the RAI. As I have always said, I believe that this is a good law, which the Commission has improved. I am also convinced that with the active contribution of everyone in this House and without obstructive attitudes - because I think that we all want to change the current law and make sure that RAI can be projected into the future to be a competitor, not only in Europe, but in the world - it is possible to make this law even better. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u33	I call the rapporteur, Senator Buemi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to associate myself with my co-rapporteur, Mr Ranucci, on the issues raised in the general debate, and as rapporteur I cannot express my personal thoughts, but I would like to point out in the text of the law that I have presented on this subject. But here I want to express a wish, strongly stimulated and inspired by the speeches of my fellow Members who have spoken in this general debate - in particular my fellow Members, Mr Zavoli, Mr Mucchetti, Mr Gasparri, Mr Minzolini, Mr Fornaro and many others - who, in their speeches, have put passion and intelligence on different sides, in trying to give this House information and content so that the debate and vote can be as clear as possible as possible with regard to the objectives that each of us has. A subject like what we are dealing with today must, in my opinion, have a long, high vision, but it is essential that it has certain funding and an appropriate regulatory framework in accordance with the constitutional principles. This is the challenge we have as rapporteurs and we will try to grasp within the opinions that we will be expressing from here on. This is the challenge facing the Government which, beyond the vision it has set itself, must try to grasp the content of this debate and the stimuli of good faith that have come from many political parts. This is the challenge that this House has in the last instance, which must assume the responsibility of dismissing a text that meets the expectations, particularly of the country, which obviously has a desire for reforms in many areas, but wants real reforms, reforms that put the country, in its many expressions, up to the challenge, which is no longer only national, but international, European and global. With this wish, I express appreciation for the discussion and I believe that the following also sees all of us available to a true confrontation, with the ultimate aim of giving our country a good law on the governance of RAI. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am struck by the difference between the work done so far in the Commission and what has been said in this House, the type of confrontation that has developed and the varied representation that emerges, with all in all reductive readings, often contradictory and conflicting. Personally, on the other hand, I am satisfied with the path, the path taken together. Certainly there are points on which there is no convergence between us, there is no common reading of things, but that is exactly the meaning of work. Each group, each of its colleagues, by majority vote and by opposition, has, however, come up against the substantive issues. This allowed the Government to declare from the beginning that it presented itself to this comparison with an unarmed text and to demonstrate that its willingness to accept suggestions and improvements was real. Let me say, however, that in many speeches there has been the following reflection: Well, the government, instead of addressing the issue as a whole, presents a legend about governance. I have heard this concept expressed in many versions, not only by the opposition but also by some of the members of the Democratic Party. Just out of honesty with regard to the work done by the Government, I would remind myself, and also in the case of the House, how we have dealt with the broad subject of the change in the world of communication, its actors and actors, how to use, and at the same time of marketing, the product. The Government has declared its intention to proceed with three fundamental acts that, in order of time, as we have before them, are the following: the renewal of the RAI leadership, and therefore a reflection on the company; the renewal of the concession of the public service; the reform of the canon. In essence, the theme of the RAI company, that of the role of public service and the theme of resources within a changed system. These are the only acts to deal with a reality that is subject to such a change; and this is not the only action we are doing. We could deepen the work that the Government is doing in redefining the relationship between the world of film producers, fiction, documentaries, products for different platforms and public and private broadcasters. We could here analyse together the relationship that the Italian Government is building with the so-called OTTs, with the over the top, with the new protagonists, a relationship of dialogue, knowledge, reference to the points of national interest, of common work in the European dimension. I mean, maybe some results say more than words. I don't think it's a coincidence if Google has signed with the Italian Privacy Supervisor the most advanced agreement, which allows an authority to go to the Google headquarters to verify respect for the implementations that are agreed with the authority itself, and if this agreement somehow prepares to become paradigmatic within the European dimension. It is not by chance that there are ‐ and it is known ‐ the relationships that exist between Google, the FIEG and the different Italian publishing groups, in the search for points of understanding on a new context. It is no coincidence that, together with Unioncamere, Google has started and has now implemented an important work of relationship with small Italian companies, involving trade associations, through the role of Unioncamere, exactly to facilitate the relationship between the production system of our country, made by small and very small enterprises, and e-commerce, the world of the network, communication. With Netflix there is then a dialogue that is done first of all of understanding. But let me say that sometimes they strike, on such complex themes, some reflections that actually do not take into account how the change in which we are immersed, whether we like it or not, is deeper than what we ourselves feel; and the illusion that some national norm serves to block a phenomenon that invests and redesigns the roles and cultures of different parts of the world is sometimes surprising. Of course, even with Netflix the comparison will be inspired by the same sign. So there is no lack in the action of the Government - let me tell you - the awareness of what is happening, of the new protagonists and of the new platforms. It is the same awareness that has led us to support in Europe, in our six months of presidency and now as an Italian representative, the need to review the European media directive, precisely in order to intervene on these phenomena and to have all countries unanimously approve of the commitment to take a united position of Europe with respect to Internet governance and with respect to the phenomena of relation between the new protagonists of new platforms and the European model. It's in here that the government's action fits in. Of course, it would have been a bit surprising if we had done some sort of documentation of this in the accompanying report to the bill, but I assure my colleagues that we are willing to speak and to discuss these issues at any time, whatever the location. We have the confidence of what is happening and we have the confidence, however, of the fact that we intervene with acts and at different times. Let us then address, for the time being, the issue of RAI governance. It is true that this is not a draft RAI reform law, but a reform of RAI governance. I say this to President Gasparri, who is concerned that only one article should be dealt with: we will deal with all aspects as a whole. Don't rush, Senator Gasparri. I followed your exchange of jokes with Senator Cioffi, about the members who remain permanently in this House and about the transitional ones; I imagine you think you have time and then you will see that we will be able to complete the plan of change, and not because of a misunderstanding sense of pre-constituted ideological aversion, but because - let me say this - the text currently in force was pre-digital. Inevitably it did not take into account the digital revolution that has taken place, that totally changes the scenario and that we must take note of, at the same time aware that the national dimension is in no way sufficient to intervene in phenomena that do not stop at the administrative or national borders, but that invest our time in a global way. We were faced with the process of renewing the RAI summits and then we started with a law that reformed the governance mechanisms. For the truth - even if said so it may seem a little strange - the government thinks like Senator Volpi, when he asks: - Changed governance to do what? - Changed governance to do what? - Changed governance to do what? - Changed governance It is difficult to discuss governance if we do not have an idea of what we are asking RAI for. However, it is not by chance that the Council of Ministers, a few months ago, adopted at the same time the draft law we are discussing and the guidelines, precisely to open the debate on the change of RAI and public service. I understand that then, inevitably, in those who write, in commentators, in observers and in many political colleagues, interest in governance mechanisms has prevailed rather than for guidelines. Then, however, the Government cannot be blamed for not having indicated its own line, which is not exhaustive, but, on the contrary, wants to open an overall reflection, which allows to evaluate the change of governance in the light of the change that we imagine necessary for RAI and public service. It is, of course, public, well-known, well-known and publicly presented by the President-in-Office of the Council. I do not make an integral reading of it, but here we are dealing with: the transition from a traditional role of Broadcaster to that of media company, capable of being present and producing on all platforms, the redefinition of the editorial offer, the revision of the number of channels and the distribution of the product, the acquisition of a higher international profile, the production of programs in English, the creation of a cultural channel aimed at international communities (able to favour the point of view, the interests and the Italian identity), the redefinition of the role of RAI as the driving force of the national audiovisual industry (i.e. called, not only to assert a business interest, but to be responsible for the field of creativity and communication, through different languages, thus representing a national interest), the completion of the information reform plan, the reduction of newspapers, the strengthening of the production of documentaries and products, the zeroing of the digital divide, the role as protagonist, in the realization of the digital agenda, that RAI must have, and many other aspects. That is what we have considered that a change of governance was needed, that more emphasis should be placed on the size of the company rather than on a sort of almost continuation of Parliament, because this is the passage we are in. My feeling is that we emphasize in words the great change, but we continue to reason as if in the end only what happens here, in our country, is important; as if it were decisive a relationship that is played all within the national borders, as if it were important the discussion in the board of directors on the deputy directors, on the understandadactors; as if this were the keystone. Instead, I am here to propose a point of view that goes beyond this phase that is behind us: if we do not speak in terms of the country system, in the process that happens we will not be able to be protagonists and bring Italian interests as protagonists. That is the real point, and in this change of pace we have parameters, of course we have them. We have an idea of transformation of RAI, called to be exactly more protagonist on the product, more protagonist in the international market, more protagonist in a reform of the organization system dated now for decades. There's an answer to that. A few days ago, Aldo Grasso, perhaps in a provocative way, on the "Corriere della Sera" said: in this way that changes so it still makes sense to talk about a public service? Does that still mean anything? It is uncomfortable to quote but, responding to him, on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), I argued that it is precisely here, in the new context, that there is a greater need than in the past of the public service. I would like to recall at this point the reflection of President Zavoli, who goes beyond, as I understand it, rules or prerogatives, investing the very meaning of public service and the role of institutions in this context, with a particular emphasis on information, as is inevitable, because it is the heart of the meaning of public service. In today's world, more than yesterday we are submerged every day, every moment, of information, of news, of data on all types of devices, no longer only on the television or on the computer (on the tablet, on the mobile phone and with a thousand other means); each of us, each citizen is like submerged by a mass of data, news, information that, of course, constitute, compared to yesterday's size, a positive data, because there is no no nostalgia for the selected information, but nevertheless they cannot but pose a problem. They pose the problem to each of us to be able, to have, that is, the tools to interpret processes and dynamics so complex that happen and concern our life; not to be, that is, simply overwhelmed in search of the news of the last second and somehow unable to read and understand the dynamics of things that affect life. The sense of public service, in my opinion, lies in this: giving to those who want it - because it is always personal freedom - the instruments that I would like to define as being more aware. So I translate the word "educating" and I think I meet consensus, because I imagine that the idea of an ethical state does not belong to any of the cultures present. Educating, then, must be understood in the sense of offering the tools to be more citizens, to be more people, to be more aware and more able to read, each with its own reference values, the real dynamics that happen in the complex world. How is this simply stated in a rule? However, this is the heart of the public service, the most original contribution that Europe has made to television and that remains specific, a public service which, in my opinion, must be continually redefined. I would like to be able to define it simply as a very sensitive antenna that constantly seeks the connection with the community to which it is addressed, but a public service - I say this because I have heard some ideas resurface - is not fragmentable. I know that the previous government had, through the idea of the blue stamp, proposed to separate the programs paid with the fee, which were therefore part of the public service, from those paid with advertising. I know it comes back - I heard it in some speeches, not just from the opposition - the idea of dividing, of separating, as if this were possible, but I am not of this idea. Public service is an idea that must always be redefined, but that is not separable, is not fragmentable either on the basis of the source of funding, which is a subject that belongs to another area and the legislation that is imposed on the company, or on the basis of the type of programme. When we talk about information and its role in public opinion, I imagine that none of us only refer to the news and that we are all well aware that in many areas of deepening and entertainment comes the ability to inform public opinion. So let's abandon this idea that, in my opinion, only makes sense to the extent that it aims to overcome the public service tout court and that it chooses this path. We have addressed the issue of governance from exactly a document that for the Government wanted to open this reflection and that will find from autumn its consecration in the process that leads us to renew the concession to RAI, also in this case in contradiction from the previous government. There is no point in the idea of a race and I do not think it would be useful to spend months discussing the whole abstract hypothesis of a race to decide who should perform the public service function. It would only be a way to smooth the hair to the Italian desire for polemics and discussions that last months and are not always understandable or concrete. The RAI is the subject of the public service; the discussion we have to make is what public service, what mission, what RAI, how a new public service is in the changed context. We have, therefore, dealt with the process I was talking about starting with the law on governance. We chose the parliamentary path, even if we assumed other forms, and we chose it in the knowledge that the parliamentary path is confrontation. We didn't come armored. It seems to me that in the debate in the Commission, which has been referred to here in this House, I have heard three basic points of discussion. The first is made clear by Senator Gasparri publicly; to the truth, President Gasparri alternated: he went from a phase in which roughly the thesis was all in all, this is my law, it does not change anything, to a later phase in which he spoke of a plant that was against the Constitution, up to support the preliminary of unconstitutionality. In this logic, what is the thesis? There are decisions of the Court that reaffirm the centrality of Parliament; the idea that is presented is that the Government's bill significantly and unconstitutionally shifts the power over the Government by annulling that of Parliament, so it is not constitutional. That seems to me to be the first point. In this respect, I agree with the rapporteur, who has explained this very well. We object to the assumption: there is no prevarication of the Executive. The fundamental point remains one, that is that to the board of directors - then I will speak of its composition - is entrusted, of course, the power of appointment, on proposal of the shareholder, and of revocation at any time: the power on the managing director has it the board of directors, and it is the latter that approves the plans along which the management of the managing director takes place. From this point of view the report is clear. If we support the view that part of the management power moves towards the administrator, we agree on that and I am not frankly afraid to explain why. But the sense of Parliament's role is fully respected, so much so that the board of directors is majority in parliamentary composition, and has full powers: to put it bluntly, it has the right of life or death on the role of the managing director. Is the situation the same as before and doesn't change anything? No, this is the point of change, and I understand why, while you wanted to give the idea that everything remains the same, you continued to insist only on one point, which is the heart of the reform. What's interrupting? We interrupt that kind of daily mix between parties, parties, vigilance and the Commission, and business management. This is the point that is interrupted by the Government's proposal. We must be extremely clear here. When we criticize certain aspects of RAI (I think of certain numbers of employees, certain situations considered redundant and our criticism of the association that has produced certain results), I imagine, sharing, that we refer to today's mechanism that foresees that the Director-General arrives with a proposal on the board, and that on the board, instead of that proposal in general, we always discuss, each from his point of view, how to add a small piece to the proposal of the Director-General. In essence, the board of directors is made a "parlamentino," not in the best sense, that is, a board of directors called to share a high responsibility of the institutions, but a permanent politicalized forum for discussion between parties, parties and other types of reading; and the Director-General has no power but to go in this direction. Or we think it's a coincidence that in some RAI news magazine... president. Undersecretary, I invite you to conclude and thank you very much. Mr GIACOMELLI, State Secretary for Economic Development. Since it was a broad debate, I do not want to give the impression, Madam President, of a reluctance on the part of the Government and I would like to make all the points clear. Do we think that it is a coincidence that in some RAI newspaper magazine ordinary editors are 20% and graded 80%? Or do we think that this belongs only to a political part, that the bad guys are only on one side and everyone else is good? Don't we think it's this mechanism? In our project, the managing director has responsibility for choices, nominations and management, but it is the board of directors that approves the fundamental acts of the line. To avoid, however, this criticism, we have accepted one point: the Management Board, on each appointment, gives an opinion, which is mandatory but not binding. It has been asked - indeed, in fact, we have proposed, in relation to some amendments - that on the newspapers (and after the speech of President Zavoli I do not need to say why), if the opinion of the Management Board is opposed to two thirds (i.e. if five out of seven are against), that opinion becomes binding. To us it seemed a fair signal to say that there must be attention and to deny this caricature of the Government that wants to put its hands on the RAI; as if there were not in the current system, for those who have those intentions, the possibilities to influence. We aim only to interrupt a mechanism, to bring back a business dimension and to give back to politics its own role, of direction and control over the mission, but leaving the management bodies their responsibility, to which they must respond. In the Commission we have made - and I thank President Matteoli and all the groups for the way that stage went - important steps. Is there room for more? I have read many amendments, such as those of Senator Airola and Senator Cioffi, which aim to better specify the requirements of who is to be appointed, the incompatibility, and which commit to the drafting of a plan for the transparency of RAI: there is willingness to discuss, to accept them, as they represent a point of view that we can make a shared object of. I am thinking of some of the amendments tabled by the League, which we discussed with Senator Crosio in the Commission. I once again welcome Senator Volpi's invitation: no fear and no mistrust, let us take a step forward in merit and definition. There is willingness on the part of the Government to better define the delegations. I have taken this as an important point and, in particular, I owe Senator Fornaro, who made it explicitly, an answer. The interpretation you give, Senator, is correct: with regard to the delegation on the reordering of the single text, there is no intention of the Government to use it for a broad intervention of reform that exonerates Parliament. As you know, already in the Commission, the Government had reduced the original wording of the delegation precisely to explain that we are interested in a reordering and simplification operation. Look, the previous legislation is still in force: since 1975 it has never been reordered. Then, of course, we must intervene and amend the legislation, but without fear of doing so through parliamentary paths and through work in Parliament. That interpretation is therefore correct. I shall conclude and apologise for abusing availability. Now we can show that Parliament's debate is of practical use and that work in this House can be a further moment, compared to the important work already done in the Commission, which allows us to refine and improve the text further. For our part there has not been so far and there is now no closure in this House. Otherwise we can simply note that everyone prefers to play a role by perspiring - says Senator Volpi - for fear. I don't know; it can be out of fear, convenience or choice that you perch on positions talking to each other about caricatures - the government that puts its hands, the opposition does obstruction - without talking about the merit of a law that has all the intention of being the presupposition of the revival of the RAI, of which there is a great need. I refer to the decision of the House and of the Groups. For my part, it was necessary for me to confirm the willingness of the Government to continue the confrontation. I just want to say one final joke because there is a question that is not asked here, but that always circulates: now how do we proceed? What's the government gonna do? I want to speak the language of frankness in the Senate. I believe it is useful that the Government completes without different solutions the entire parliamentary path, without compressing the potential that this path has. So, after the Senate, we'll face -- we'll see the timing and the mode -- the RAI. If it is not necessary that this does not lead to a long extension of the bodies in the company we will discuss it and see it, but I believe - and I say this honestly - that the experience of working in the Commission - and I am convinced that this will also be the case in this House - that when there is an open debate on the substance of matters the parliamentary path produces a better, more balanced result in which everyone has helped to make a better contribution. Moreover, if at the same time, the law text is accused of being proof of the authoritarianism of the Government and proof of the new association means that, in some way, apart from those who even choose to sum up both arguments seeing which may prevail, this text has managed to find a balance between the contributions and positions of all. I hope that work in the next few days in this House will also show that there is the possibility of confronting each other from different positions, of respecting assessments and, perhaps, of different final decisions on the text, but of contributing everyone in the parliamentary debate to improve the project. [[Applause from the PD Group]] and Senator Buemi).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, since the opinion of the Budget Committee on the amendments tabled has not yet been received, I shall refer the continuation of the debate on the draft legislation to another sitting. In view of the time being the end of the plenary session scheduled for 1 p.m. and the Conference of Group Leaders being convened for exactly the same time, the speeches at the end of the sitting are postponed until the end of the afternoon sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-488.ana.u37	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.54.
