ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 1 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u4	LANGELLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been informally communicated to the Groups, following the request made by a parliamentary group, today's sitting will end at 6.30 p.m. I also inform you that in tomorrow's afternoon sitting at 11 a.m. the Minister of the Interior will make an information on the CARA of Mineo and immigration. Groups will be able to intervene for five minutes. On Thursday 9 July at 9.30 am, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance will be informed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u11	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, as you know, yesterday I again submitted to you the request already made at the meeting of the group leaders last time when, faced with the forecast of information from Minister Padoan, together with other groups we had asked that you come to report to the President of the Council. It seems to me - and that is why we are now allowing ourselves to raise this issue - that these are crucial hours. It is a matter of making very important decisions. In fact, this House, the Italian Parliament, should know - frankly, we have not yet quite understood - what the position of the Italian Government is after the outcome of the referendum in Greece. Therefore, Mr President, I am here to strongly request that the President-in-Office of the Council come directly. It is not a question of competence or numbers: the issue is clearly all political and it is about what future Europe must also have and what position we will take. In addition, the five minutes allocated to each Group for the debate honestly seem to us, given the importance of the issues in question, to be a misery of time. Mr President, I therefore think that you will also be speaking with the Government to ensure that the President-in-Office of the Council convinces himself to report back to the House. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u12	Certainly we will contact the Government to understand the willingness to intervene; then they will agree with the other Leaders the times of the interventions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u15	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a formal request for the procedure provided for in Rule 77 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, namely the statement of urgency for the rapid debate of the 1969 Senate Act. This is the draft constitutional law of popular initiative which provides for a referendum on the direction of the establishment of a national currency. We delivered it in writing yesterday, so you should already have received a letter signed by eight senators. I would also like to make sure that this request is formalized. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Crimes, I'm interrupting you because Senator Candiani is reporting and maybe you wanted to intervene before you had reported it. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] Senator Candiani, I'm gonna end Senator Crimes, and then I'm gonna give you the floor. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, as was pointed out yesterday by letter to the Presidency - but we can do it again - pursuant to Rule 77 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, we are asking for the statement of urgency for the draft constitutional law No 1969.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u16	Pursuant to Rule 77, paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure, this request will be placed on the agenda of tomorrow's afternoon sitting. Then there will be a vote by show of hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u19	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have tabled a request for an urgent statement, signed by the required number of senators, asking for the draft Constitutional Act of People's Initiative No 544 to be placed on the agenda as a matter of urgency, concerning the request for a referendum on the subject of the European Union and Italy's accession to it, which was also presented in the previous parliamentary term and already in its hands. Mr President, I would like to add another subject to what we are dealing with since you have just announced the information, the information that will make the Interior Minister Alfano tomorrow and the information that will make Minister Padoan Thursday morning. During the last group leaders we thought it was clear that it took a reasonable amount of time to develop the issues relating to this issue. To liquidate everything, with the first information of Minister Alfano (being informative, there will be no subsequent presentation of documents), with five minutes for each Group, as if it were a matter of second order, appears at least inconsistent with the realities of which we will deal, even more with the Greek crisis. It is not possible to deal with the Greek crisis in the Senate, after the request for a hearing was not even accepted the previous week, with an information from the Minister on which the Groups will have five minutes to intervene. This appears - I repeat - at least surreal in relation to the reality we are going to talk about. On this I would ask you to postpone the time available, possibly by summoning another group leader. We do not expect the information to become a communication, but at least the time available is appropriate to the seriousness of the problems addressed. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u20	Senator Candiani, your request, like that of Senator Crimes, pursuant to Rule 77, paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure, will be placed on the agenda of the afternoon sitting of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u21	The next item is the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 1289 and 77. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Russo, whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u22	Mr President, I wish to speak for a very short time, referring to the written report. I would simply like to point out to the House that the text we are debating is the result of a long debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which stems from two draft laws: the first presented by Mr Pegorer and the second by the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia. Both draft laws concern the amendment of the Statute of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region in the matter of local authorities and, as a particular focus, provide for the abolition of any reference to the Provinces. This is provided for in order to allow the Region Friuli-Venezia Giulia to suppress that level of order within a reform plan already started also with regional law. Let me just say one thing. The Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region has a long and renowned reputation for good governance and administrative innovation. I believe that all Italy remembers, if nothing else, the experience that followed the terrible earthquake of 1976 and the extraordinary work of rebirth of that territory, which was also due to the capacity for administrative innovation and the implementation of original administrative instruments that, for example, allowed the mayors to play a specific and decisive delegated role. The hope that I entrust to the opening of these parliamentary work is that, even in this situation, the work and reflection carried out on a sensitive subject, which we find both in the so-called Delrio law and in the constitutional reform that is currently under consideration in the Chambers, allow the overcoming of the provincial dimension and the revaluation of the municipal and regional levels. From this point of view, it is desirable, once again, that the reflection of a small, but hopefully virtuous, Special Statute Region may be of public use.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u23	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Battista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the draft law of initiative of the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia in our examination sets ambitious objectives, such as those of ensuring a timely implementation of the so-called Delrio law and, at the same time, of redefining in an orderly and systematic way the rationalization of the levels of territorial government, bearing in mind the local specificities, such as the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. The political debate that took place in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, also thanks to the legislative initiative that the Regional Council has undertaken, has raised several issues that can no longer be delegated: the role of metropolitan cities and all other levels of territorial government, as well as the value of the autonomy regarding the management of the primary political authorities of the territory. 16.50 p.m. (Battist followed). It is no coincidence that Regional Law No. 1 of 9 January 2006 already constituted a first legislative provision to rearrange the system of local autonomy, which intervened twelve years after the entry into force of Constitutional Law No. 2 of 1993, which gave the Region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia an exclusive legislative power in the matter of local authorities. We are therefore called today to interact, as the Senate Assembly, with this legislative initiative. It is important for Parliament and the Regions to discuss autonomous issues, with the result of integrating the local and parliamentary debate in a synergistic way. It is obvious to me that the outcome can only be an enrichment, even for those who wish the Senate as a chamber of autonomy. I would like to point out, first of all, that the establishment of metropolitan cities as new governing bodies of large urban areas has also been widely shared by this Parliament, which has been thoroughly and constructively compared with the launch of Law No 56 of 7 April 2014, concerning the provisions on metropolitan cities, provinces, unions and mergers of municipalities. Without doubt, the driving force of the aforementioned law was to configure the second-level entities as closely linked by a relationship of political-functional interdependence with the municipalities and their respective territorial districts. I have said this because today, with this debate, we not only contribute to an already traced path that redesigns borders and competences of the local administration, but we also face the singularity of the territory with an autonomous attitude, which over the years has obtained its specificity in view of the diversity it represents within it. In particular, the principle of subsidiarity, as set out in Article 118 of the Constitution, as well as the same autonomous meaning as the 2001 reform and then addressed and evolved by constitutional jurisprudence, must be borne in mind. Through and thanks to subsidiarity, therefore, this measure entrusts not only to the municipalities the role of basic institution and general administration of the Republic, on which, according to the principles of differentiation and adequacy, the metropolitan cities are built, which allow to enhance the interest of the community with respect to decisions of wider scope. Dear colleagues, these are my key words: differentiation and adequacy, principles that concretely decline subsidiarity and optimal instruments for the reconfiguration in a strictly constitutional key of the role recognised at each level of government. The metropolitan cities therefore represent a new administrative level, which can be closer and more attentive to the needs of the territory, with the commitment to preserve and enhance all the communities present in the territory. And it is its peculiar status, close to the demands of the territory, to guarantee, from a future perspective, but now more and more concrete, easy and punctual access, acquiring new skills and protecting typical territorial and linguistic minorities. My call, therefore, is to focus on the goodness and foresight that the measure presents itself in a complex framework, characterised by a plurality of regulatory interventions and carried out in a limited temporal context, which must be assessed in terms of coherence. We must acknowledge the fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done a good job, which is certainly still perfectable, but we must be aware that much more could not be done and could be done, given the current constitutional framework for territorial autonomy. Specifically, the amendments I tabled, shared by the rapporteur, supported by the Group and approved by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, demonstrate the political will to enhance the metropolitan city as an interested element and close to the territory, capable of ensuring its economic development and an increase in the flows of goods and people, as well as optimizing its spatial planning and access to European funds. Last but not least, with the approval of an amendment that I have tabled, Article 2 of the Statute is updated, with the definition of the current provincial territories of both Trieste and Pordenone. In conclusion, I hope that this text will have a rapid and shared process, that consensus may be established around the metropolitan cities as an outpost for a renewed self-government drive. I would also like to thank my colleague, Mr Pegorer, the first signatory of the Senate Act 77, who was incardinated together with the draft law No 1289 of initiative of the Friuli Regional Council. My thanks also go to President Finocchiaro. It was for me a fruitful opportunity for comparison and learning, which led all of us to understand and appreciate the legislative dynamics of the Regions under special statute, also considering their respective functions with Parliament. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u25	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today is another missed opportunity on the part of Parliament to embark on a serious path towards a genuine, genuine redevelopment of public expenditure, through the elimination of the Provinces and all the bodies that constitute them and which weigh heavily on the state budget, in order to free up economic resources that are never as important as today for investments that prevent everything that is feared on the horizon. The bill No. 1289 that we are discussing today is yet another proof of this continuous, semantic revolution of nothingness. The numbers speak for themselves: the abolition of the Provinces, flagged as a political masterpiece of reduction, of the compression of public spending, is instead the exact opposite, that is, the creation of new intermediate agencies, expenditures on increase, more executives and no reduction of bureaucracy, while the only point in favor is a small, almost imperceptible, saving due to the abolition of the 3.000 provincial councillors, now no longer re-elected, and their emoluments: crumbs, that is. The litmusol map of this autogol, flagned by Renzi as a structural reform, is what is happening in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, where the regional reform that abolishes the four Provinces is carried out. It should have affected the reorganization of the territorial authorities by means of the real suppression of the Provinces, and instead we learn that the metropolitan cities have arisen or will soon arise: only, therefore, a play of words. About a year ago, when Friuli-Venezia Giulia launched the reform of its Provinces (Trieste, Gorizia, Udine and Perdenone), Debora Serracchiani said it was an example of efficiency and cost savings of politics and the Friulian PD repeated for months that the Serracchiani reform was a model to imitate for the other Regions. However, the results, as documented by the site "scenarieconomiche.it" say much more. Instead of the four Abolition Provinces in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, 17 mini-provinces are being created - and I stress this - since it is not the Unions of Municipalities that will have to carry out a considerable part of the functions carried out in the past by the Provinces. Each union of the Municipalities will have its own Director-General: therefore, 17 directors-general brand new, with what it achieves in terms of new costs and perhaps also of political clientelism. Who wants to make believe that the Provinces of Friuli-Venezia Giulia can be abolished deceives both the citizens of Friuli-Venezia Giulia and the Italians all. From 1 July the offices of the work service of the former Provinces, with their about 300 employees, will pass in charge to the Region Friuli-Venezia Giulia. The provincial employees will thus become regional employees, with immediate pay advantages, first of all the fourteenth month, that the provincial employees did not have. Estimated cost? Only one million euros of extra spending. Only. But that's not all: of the 1,259 provincial employees, about 681 should pass in charge to the Region, while the others will be redistributed among the Municipalities. The advantage of going to the Region is remarkable: it means having an increased insured and certified salary. The CGIA of Mestre has calculated that the average cost of an employee of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region is 65,164 euros per year, compared to 45,892 euros of an employee of the Province. So the money is there and there is to the benefit of the employees and not of the taxpayers, ergo - says the CGIA of Mestre - the cost of the job of the current provincial employees will rise by about 15 percent, with so much greetings to the efficiency and the savings of expense, and I add also to those who proclaim themselves as the bishop of the efficiency of the public expenditure. It is clear that this is a merely formal replacement, not at all substantial: to provide for the repeal of the Provinces and at the same time for the creation of the metropolitan cities, or for agglomerations of Municipalities means not to affect, in truth, the need to reduce the costs of bureaucracy and to eliminate all those seats paid well with the taxes of citizens. The total cost of the Provinces, up to a year ago, was about 10 billion per year, i.e. 1.27% of total public expenditure. Renzi assured that their abolition would save a billion thanks to the cut of 3,000 provincial councillors and their allowances, but the Union of Italian Provinces had to correct it, stating that at most about 500 million euros would be saved, so half. Savings are destined to turn into more spending now, as has happened in the past for other reforms that were flagged as a model of efficiency while they were just a trick to make new appointments, new expenses and thus have more power. This method of law-making goes against the indications of redeployment of public expenditure and against the principles of efficiency, rationalisation and adequacy that should guarantee local authorities, already severely penalized by the budgetary constraints imposed by Europe and Brussels. Let's not forget that if Renzi tries to get beautiful with the crumbs of the decree local authorities - because of crumbs it is - in the law of stability of 2015 have been approved - alas - linear cuts to the municipalities for six billion euros from here until 2019, to the metropolitan cities for 12 billions from here until 2019... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u27	I would ask colleagues to lower the volume of their voices because otherwise I believe that Senator Morra has difficulty in continuing his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u28	MORRA (M5S). ...and to the Regions, including those with special statutes such as the Friuli-Venezia Giulia we are talking about now, for 16,2 billion euros from here until 2018. Unfortunately, the draft law under discussion goes against all the fundamental principles of redeployment of expenditure. In the event, it meets the demands of hypocrisy that allow you to continue to obtain consensus. If the reform were finally adopted by Parliament, it would not have an immediate impact, also in view of the fact that it would require a further legislative step, namely the regional one that, in the absence of a well-defined deadline and of state indications about the objectives to be achieved, could cause alterations and uncertainties of public budgetary determination both at regional and municipal level, with further problems to be addressed. The municipalities that today are forced to increase taxes for their citizens, or to cut primary services, such as transport, health and school, will inevitably be called upon to make further efforts to ensure continuity and proper administrative functioning, up to now competence of the Provinces. A real missed opportunity, a failed opportunity. We could - but you never do anything serious - give an effective reorganization to local authorities through a structural, systematic and organic reform to be adopted throughout the national territory, and not only limited to a single region, among other things to a special statute; a reorganization that the Government has been following only medialy since the first day of its settlement, but which in fact has never really wanted to implement. A fake reduction in public spending, disguised by an equally fake abolition of armchairs, obviously serves the government of the partycracy only to draw votes and consensus, and to maintain control and direction over public administration, in spite of the principles of independence and transparency which should inspire it. For all these reasons, the 5 Star Movement will vote against the measure and invites Parliament to reflect on the redevelopment of public expenditure through the abolition of the Provinces, on a level not only limited to a Region, albeit with a special Statute, but to the twenty Regions. Only in this way can we reason with the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u29	Senator Pegorer is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u30	Madam President, the measure to our attention, concerning the reform of the Statute of autonomy of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region, deals in particular, as has been widely mentioned, with the abolition of the legal level of the Provinces. I would remind you that this is a proposal already presented by those who speak, together with Senator Stefano Ceccanti in the previous legislature. That proposal was, already then, the result of an extremely intense political debate and participated in my region, namely Friuli-Venezia Giulia. A debate, moreover, started at the end of the nineties, which had put at the centre a common awareness of the need, for a special autonomy like ours, to overcome with courage a historical season marked by an institutional architecture now reached a final phase. Hence the need to rethink the conditions for a renewed phase of the local democratic government in that reality, because of the concrete experience gained in the exercise of special autonomy and a consequent reflection of constitutional policy interesting the whole Republic. In short, already at that stage Friuli-Venezia Giulia and its political, economic and social institutions reasoned on the possibility that the prerogatives dictated by special autonomy could contribute to the same updating of the model of distribution of the constitutional principle laid at the foundation of autonomy and political-institutional pluralism, provided for in Article 5 of the Constitution. All this even before the same national initiatives of rethinking and, then, of overcoming the Provinces. On the other hand, this reflection was accompanied by the fact that already other special regional autonomy, such as the Valle d'Aosta or Sicily, had codified in their Statute the prediction of the non-existence of the Provinces, or the possibility of their overcoming them. These are the political and also legal reasons that led me to retable, at the beginning of this legislature, the draft law No 77 of March 2013. Following the submission of this new proposal for the reform of the Statute of special autonomy with the forecast of the abolition of the Provinces, in January 2014 the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia considered it appropriate to reach the approval of a special bill of statutory amendment, which, in essence, has proposed to achieve the same objective. In the course of the debate on the two draft laws in the relevant Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it was considered whether the draft law of the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia should be taken as a basic text, approved with amendments by the Commission itself and today in the attention of the House, and not, in any case, reducing Parliament's own and exclusive responsibility for being a legitimate body responsible for deciding, ultimately, any constitutional change. In this regard, this procedure confirms - in my opinion - the principle that, in our constitutional system, special autonomy is based on a decision by the sovereign state. The measure, moreover, if approved - as I hope - must be considered the beginning, and not the conclusion, of a draft reform. In fact, to suppress in Friuli-Venezia Giulia the ordinamental level of the Provinces can open a new phase of evolution of the political-institutional system of that territorial reality, not denying the line that has been traced by our constituent Fathers. This fidelity to the spirit and values of our Constitution concerns both the special autonomy provided for in Article 116, where the role of guarantor and, together, of director and strategist of Parliament remains fundamental, and therefore of the Republic as a single, indivisible and unitary entity, as well as the process of overcoming the Provinces, through formal and explicit modification of constitutional sources, without however circumventing the constraints and principles that the Constitution itself establishes. On these aspects I would like to remind you that the birth of the Regions and their evolution, especially in recent years, push with increasing urgency towards a simplification of the levels of government required, also for reasons of legal, functional and financial sustainability. It is therefore essential to make more careful use of both legal instruments and resources, starting precisely from the architecture of the local public authorities, in order to make the fundamental rights of citizens more enforceable. In this context, returning to the specific conditions of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, I recall that the Region, characterized by dimensions not wide but strongly differentiated for historical, linguistic and cultural reasons, recalls the necessary research and the consequent construction of a new institutional model of democratic government, more suitable for the existing and necessarily based on dualism Region-Comuni. With the approval of this measure, the Parliament can therefore deliver to the Region Friuli-Venezia Giulia the instrument to achieve that strategic objective, since the Legislative Assembly of that Region will have the opportunity to think and build a great reform of the local government that takes due account of precisely those cultural, social and linguistic peculiarities that are at the foundation of the same special autonomy, also giving full implementation to the primary power in the matter of the local authorities, already previewed in the Statute. Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to make a few brief comments on the topicality or not of the special autonomies, a debate which has been particularly interesting in recent months, although many times marked by a certain amount of superficiality. From this point of view, it is useful to reiterate a concept that is often forgotten or deliberately overlooked, which relates precisely to the nature of special autonomy. In fact, the specialty is first of all differentiation. There is no specialty, but there are as many specialties as there are recognized by Parliament, in accordance with and in accordance with Article 116 of the Constitution. I would like to remind you that constitutional jurisprudence and the highest doctrine continue to remind us that we are faced with differentiated autonomy, because every form of speciality granted is different for historical and material reasons. The special autonomy is in itself the greatest recognition of the declination of the concept of autonomy in the plural. Different situations must have different rules, therefore, within the overall unity of our Republic. The specialty is, of course, born from certain historical needs and is - in my opinion - still the best instrument to enhance regional autonomy, especially in those territories whose peculiar characteristics will be difficult to change, such as geographical, territorial, cultural and linguistic conditions. On the other hand, it should be noted that giving greater or different autonomy to certain realities can only result in greater responsibility towards the single and indivisible Republic. The specialty, again - and I conclude, Madam President - can become an advantage for everyone in the assumption of roles and tasks to make a real contribution to the development of the entire country, starting from the municipality and participating in the consolidation of public finances and the economic and social revival. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u31	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u32	Madam President, I would just like to thank my fellow Members who have spoken and give a reply to Senator Morra. I am very sorry that some excessive hints of propaganda have also prevented Senator Morra from making a positive contribution to the debate we held in the Commission, where, thanks also to President Finocchiaro and the hearings we held, we have had the opportunity to discuss open issues with respect to specialty. And I am sorry because, driven by a fierce controversy, it has shown that it has perhaps little understood the history of the specificity of the Special Statute Regions and of the open debate in times not suspicious, as Mr Pegorer has well mentioned. I would also like to reassure my colleague about one of the issues he mentioned in a comprehensive reform that is being carried out in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, and whose assessments will be made when the experimentation and implementation have reached sufficient time. This is a reform that aims to identify a new governance of the broad-area government. The 17 directors general of the territorial unions, from the colleague remembered, will not be new assumptions, they will not be an addition of public expenditure, but they will certainly be recovered inside the single section that in our Region - I inform also of this - exists for many years and, therefore, will be recovered the competences of the agencies that go to conclude. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u33	Madam President, the initiative of parliamentary origin promoted by Senator Pegorer, who anticipated the initiative taken by the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, transposes the national law on the reform of local authorities and, in particular, that defined by law n. 56 of 2014, promoted at the time of the Led Government and in the current phase of definition and implementation. Contrary to what we hear, I think that the Delrio reform was important, in the aim of simplifying the republican institutional system, and whose real final aim lies in the democratic and systemic efficiency of the republican chain, which will produce cost savings. Reforms are not aimed at initial savings. Savings is a final product that is achieved at the end of a reform process. The Delrio law changes institutional philosophy quite significantly, because - according to a good principle of subsidiarity - it is back to the municipalities as a fundamental point of governance of the system. It outlines, that is, a Republic that moves not only from the State, but together from the State, the Regions and the Municipalities. The vast area is not a carriage, but - according to the principle of subsidiarity - it is an agency of municipalities for the management of territorial services (this is the vast area), without adding anything in terms of additional costs. In the next few days this House will be brought to the attention (it is already before the competent Commission) the decree-law on local authorities and precisely in that measure, among other things, is expected to accompany the implementation of the Delrio law, in particular on the most delicate front, namely the greatest mobility known by republican history. I am referring to some thousands of people in the flesh who will pass to other institutions, to other places, and who are experiencing considerable discomfort, at the end of which, however, they will not simply find the darkness, but a relocation in a reformed system. In conclusion, I would like to thank both the rapporteur and those who have spoken, because I have read in the speeches the expression of a unitary speciality, which is opposed to divisive logics too often highlighted. Differences are a value when, in fact, they do not become opposition. The bad evidence given by some regions does not justify the declaration of death of regionalism, but rather demands its new implementation. It must be clear that crises are better dealt with within the principles of subsidiarity. Not with the statist centralization, but with a modern decentralisation, which hinges on Regions and Municipalities, also this country can better face the reasons of its own crisis, finding the best solutions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u34	I inform you that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u35	I call for the withdrawal of amendment 5,100. Otherwise, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u36	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u37	I would ask Senator Fasiolo, the only signatory to Amendment 5,100. if it accepts the request for withdrawal or if it insists on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u38	Madam President, I accept the rapporteur's and the Government's invitation and withdraw Amendment 5,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u39	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Rule 5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u40	Madam President, I would ask you to withdraw Amendment 9,100. Otherwise, the opinion will be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u41	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u42	Senator Fasiolo, do you withdraw the amendment at your signature? PHASE (PD). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Rule 9. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 11. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Amendment No 11.0.100, which seeks to add an additional article after Article 11, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u43	Madam President, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u44	We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 12, on which an amendment has been tabled, which I would ask the rapporteur to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u45	Madam President, this is an amendment of mere coordination, since, in view of a forecast contained in the previous article, it would result in a lack of coordination with the original text.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u46	I would ask the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u47	Madam President, the opinion on the amendment is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u48	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12.100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 12,100, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 12. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 12 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u51	BRUNI (CRI). Madam President, more than a year after the adoption of Law No 56, the Delrio law, we examine a constitutional bill concerning - as we have heard - amendments to the special Statute of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, aimed at abolishing the Provinces and thus articulating the system of local political power at two levels of government, the Region - precisely - and the Municipalities. An organic design is implemented for Friuli-Venezia Giulia, aiming directly at the goal of the elimination of the Provinces, without intermediate passages and, above all, renouncing pastrocchi and precarious solutions, such as those contained in the aforementioned Delrio law. In other words, there is a path considerably different from that started last year for the abolition of the Provinces in the Regions under ordinary statute. For this reason I announce the favorable vote of the Conservatori Group, Italian Reformists, adding that finally the legislator declares his intentions clearly and uses the only suitable tool to achieve his goal. So, unfortunately, it did not happen with Law No 56 and the negative results are before everyone's eyes and some other colleague has already highlighted them. In fact, in recent months, we have witnessed a growing of inconveniences and inconveniences related to what were once the functions and services coming from the Provinces. Thus it happens that all the companies involved, the instrumental institutions, the special companies of the Provinces are in a almost total state of deficit, with forecasts of next and irreversible default. In particular, all employees of the participating companies have already been the subject of dismissal or prodromic measures to the same dismissal, with inevitable and considerable recourse to social shock absorbers. There is no Province in which there are no employees of the companies involved in a state of agitation and ready for further forms of legitimate and sacrosanct protest, justified by the fact that no protection or safeguard of employment levels has been provided by the central government. What, then, about the situation regarding the maintenance and operation of high schools? There's no resources. Last winter, in the middle of the winter season, fuel for heating had run out in many of the high school complexes of the peninsula. The safety of these school buildings, which require special maintenance, and the Provinces have long been calling for ad hoc funds, with no specific funding. The same reasoning must be made on the ordinary maintenance of schools and provincial roads. The funds have long been over. Many roads in this summer period, due to tourist flows, are trafficked and there are no minimum safety conditions. The employment centers, once managed by the Province, are still in nobody's land and their employees wonder about their future, not knowing if they will return to the dependencies of the Region and when they will have greater certainty about their future. To date, the measure has not brought any real economic benefit, and we can also see this in other areas. I am thinking of the stratified functions over the decades in the field of culture and tourism. What will become of provincial museums and libraries, currently undisciplined and in many regions pending the implementation of the Delrio law? What about the many opera foundations that are currently being forced to fire their orchestrals? These are some of the daily inconveniences that occur in the Italian Provinces. In the meantime, many regions, frightened by the results of Law No 56, have not yet enacted the relevant regional laws. All the inconveniences described so far demonstrate the confusion caused by the reform process of the Provinces, dictated above all by the desire of the Government to create an announcement effect, without worrying about the concrete effects that Delrio law could produce. This is so true that the legislator is still trying to protect itself with improbable and ridiculous emergency interventions, such as the recent Decree-Law No 78. Think of Article 5, which obliges the municipalities to absorb the provincial police from morning to evening. We have 2,700 provincial police officers, who will never solve the needs of local municipal police and who still don't know what they're going to do. For a few days the tourist municipalities have asked for their employment, perhaps at night or on the weekend, because they were unable, according to the last paragraph of Article 5, to proceed to seasonal recruitment of vigilantes. This is the plastic image of the uncertainty and chaos brought by the Delrio law, which has simply resulted in an announcement of reform of the Provinces, knowing that instead the real result could be achieved only by the completion of the constitutional reform and, therefore, by the abolition of the Provinces themselves from the Constitutional Charter. Precisely on the basis of these reflections, in the face of a constitutional bill that overturns the scenario provided by law n. 56 of 2014, we confirm our adhesion and reaffirm the favorable vote of the Group of Conservatives and Reformists. [[Applause from the CRI Group and Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u54	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, first of all I would like to remind the rapporteur, who rightly earlier reminded us of the importance that the example of Friuli-Venezia Giulia had in our country, that with what we are going to do today we are talking about something that perhaps in our country will hardly be replicated. In this regard, I invite you to re-read the Montanelli editorial of 20 July 1987 (it was a Monday) in which, on the occasion of the tragedy that struck Valtellina at the time - and which, from this point of view, I want to share with the Friuli-Venezia Giulia mentioned by the rapporteur - rightly invited, at the cost of making a mockery of the Constitution and in spite of everyone, to give money to the Valtellines as at the time had been given to the Friulians, because they offered the guarantee not to steal them. And so it was. It is clear that this representation, in a future that we hope never to see again, will probably be difficult to approach the scenarios that, thanks to the current majority - which is accomplishing nothing else but the continuation of the disaster made by Monti from this point of view - our country is preparing to see in the coming times. Today's is another piece (let's define it this way) of the political masterpiece that is the so-called Delrio law (a sort of Potëmkin battleship), which certainly represents a political-administrative disaster. In fact, we have created second-level local authorities, a sort of pseudoprovince (or what they will be) and - this is the most deleterious thing - we have taken away the voice of the people. The representatives of the people will no longer be there, as they will be elected by a few people within a closed room, and we will no longer have this great expression of democracy that has always been so flagrant, and in particular by the colleagues of the left. Similarly, the abolition of the Provinces has been flagged as the solution to reducing expenditure, while it is proving exactly the opposite. We will also have the same situation regarding the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region. Just a year ago President Serracchiani (who is still number two of the Democratic Party) declared that Friuli-Venezia Giulia was becoming an example of efficiency and cost savings in politics. The real situation, however, is before everyone's eyes. If we go, in fact, to examine this measure and the implementation of the delirium that you have implemented from the political and administrative point of view, also in Friuli-Venezia Giulia in fact 17 mini provinces are being created, instead of the 4 Provinces, because the 17 unions of municipalities that are being set up are not but mini provinces. If it is true, as it is true, that 17 brand-new directors-general will be appointed, we will also have an increase in costs. Among other things, the 300 employees of the employment service will be paid directly by the Region, with immediate wage increases. I can only say one thing: the fourteenth is introduced, which was not previously planned, and which will cost about one million euros. And we're just talking about a little piece. As regards the question of the employees of the four Friulian provinces, I would remind you that they are 1,259. Of these, 681 will go to the Region and the others will be distributed in the municipalities. A spannometric account (made not by me, but by the CGIA of Mestre) tells us that we will move from the current 45 million euros to about 65 million euros, with an increase, in fact, of more than 15 percent, with so many greetings to the efficiency and the cuts of expense that President Serracchiani had declared also. I would also like to point out that, among the great tasks that the Provinces are called to carry out for the service of the citizen, one of the main ones is the construction, management and maintenance of the provincial roads. Also in Friuli-Venezia Giulia the provincial roads will go to the Region. Also in this case, always on the basis of calculations made not by the undersigned (which would perhaps be the less indicated person), but by an agency of which we have deep respect when giving the numbers, we will pass from the current 16,000 euros to kilometer under the management of the Province to the 59,000 euros per kilometer under the management of the Region. We're talking about the triple. And this will generate an increase in spending of about €95 million. So much for saving and administrative efficiency! If - as the rapporteur rightly recalled - the virtuous and efficient Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region will create 17 mini provinces, we wonder what will happen in this case in the rest of the country. And here we come to the crux of the issue, the Delrio law, so sanctified by the phenomenon Renzi, which declared that the Provinces cost us about 10 billion a year and that, with this law, we would have a saving of one billion a year. It's not like that. They're all pissed off, everyone, from citizens to administrators. The citizens can no longer express themselves: we have presidents of the Province through service, unpaid, not elected but appointed within a circle with the usual pastries, and this is a disaster. We have staff who don't know where it's gonna end up, we don't know if it's going to go a little bit to the regions, a little bit to the municipalities, a little bit here and a little bit there, with obvious cost increases. And this is the plastic representation of the reform of the Provinces. And I'm not the only one who says I'm from the League. I understand that a few hours ago, in a Commission, an illustrious member of the Democratic Party of a great Commune of our country did not have words of praise - not even him - about the Delrio law, because the evidence of the facts and the numbers speak clearly. The Delrio law was a clear failure. We have to look at reality and we have told you right away. Monti had already tried it, which is not here, as usual. He had made an attempt, even less clumsy than Delrio's. Then Delrio arrived and he really made a mess, a mess. And we're paying for it today. We went to disassemble efficient machines to create a political-administrative disaster. The measure we are going to vote on today is nothing more than another piece of the devastating mosaic that you are giving the country. We will vote against: we have voted against all the amendments that have been tabled and against all the articles, because the Delrio law and all its consequences do not even deserve to be considered. It is a thing that is neither in heaven nor on earth. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I understand very well that the Undersecretary must also do the dirty work, but it was clear from his words - with the respect we have - that he does not believe it either. This isn't working. Have modesty, after the UPI, all the municipalities and all the provinces have told you that this thing doesn't work. There is no point in continuing to perpetrate this disaster. It doesn't work, as you know who made the administrator. I tell you very quietly that, in my Province, a disaster has already begun: the transports do not work well, the roads start to have problems of management and you do not know who has to answer or who is responsible; there are no city councilmen and there is already a president half-service. But do you realize where you took the country? You don't realize what a disaster you've made. Anyway, people are realizing it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u55	You should finish, Senator Crosio.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u56	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). I shall finish, Madam President. Go on with this shit and you'll see that the people are definitely realizing it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crosio, you should use a more bearable language. There's a way and a way to argue. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). It's the truth. Excuse me, Madam President, but when I do, I do. We will not vote for this. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u59	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I am a little disappointed with Senator Morra's statements. I do not know if the power of the network - I had remained in a certain mode of communication - allowed Senator Morra to speak with the regional advisors of the 5 Star Movement Group. Had it not been clear, the measure we are considering is the initiative of the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, which voted unanimously. Therefore, the members of the 5 Star Movement also voted. ENDRIZZI (M5S). The real ones! BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yeah, the real ones, Endrizzi, the ones you should probably be asking about how you're gonna go about some votes. The difference between the two texts - and perhaps we do a little more in-depth study of what we are considering - lies in the fact that the Metropolitan City is introduced into the Statute as an orderly level. It's all there. So if you were against this amendment, you could have tabled deleterious amendments. I do not understand, but in any case you have freedom of vote and vote as you please, I do not understand you anymore. Having said that, I have nothing more to add and I am voting in favour of the Group for Autonomies-PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from the Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u62	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, on behalf of the People's Area Group, I confirm our vote in favour and ask you to be able to submit the full text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u65	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, when this measure came to the Commission, the majority claimed that it could not be discussed or amended. Even the majority - in which today's benches Mr Baptist sits comfortably - claimed that only the Presidents of the Region and of the Regional Council could be heard because of the prerogatives of the autonomously established Region. We knew, instead, that there had been precedents and that this did not correspond to the truth, but there was the need, the opportunity, the right to intervene. It is curious indeed to note that the majority, who had previously stood in the barrier, then heavily amended that text - dear Baptist - by introducing an entity such as the metropolitan cities, which was not foreseen in the initial text, what even our advisers - the real ones - voted for. That text wasn't that. We would have expected - and the problem has been put in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - to hear the opinion of the Regional Council and to enter into a dialectic of institutional respect. But this did not happen, because the majority thought they could do it their own way, in violation of the very same principles that Baptist shatters us today. Well, why do we not accept the metropolitan cities, as well as a matter of method and principle, from an institutional and constitutional point of view? We do not accept them, with respect to the procedure of the measure, because they are second-level bodies that remove decision-making power from the citizens and, at a time when corruption is showing us - perhaps, but we do not yet know - its appalling vastness, we should give citizens back that decision-making power of direct control through the vote on the institutions. Then there is the other mockery, that of the UTIs, the Intercommunal Territorial Unions, which are not the unions between Municipalities, which are free pacts, spontaneously formulated by the administrations. They are entities established by the Region and defined from above; and from above is established the figure of the Director General, a person whose remuneration reaches 150,000 euros per year. We have basically - on the merits, on the basis of method, on the basis of consistency - an opinion that is contrary to this provision, knowing that this will remain in the act only as our will, because the numbers the majority have them and are compact. What we are conducting, however, is a truthful operation that we intend to carry out to the end. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u68	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, this measure has posed some problems which are not marginal of a constitutional nature, which concern the relations between the State and the Regions with a special statute and the possibility of the National Parliament to amend a draft law approved by the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia. Since it is also a law abolishing the Friulian Provinces, the question has also been asked whether it is constitutionally correct to delete these entities in a Region with a special statute while at national level the Provinces, although they have become second level entities, are still functioning. The constitutionalists audited in the first Commission have positively dissolved these nodes, saying clearly that the Region Friuli-Venezia Giulia must not wait for the reform of Title V of the Constitution in order to propose the cancellation of the Provinces from its Statute and that the Parliament has the power to amend the plans of reform of the regional Statute advanced from the Region. Article 63 of the Friulan Statute, in attributing the power to modify the Regional Council, uses the adverb "also," thus making it clear that it is not the exclusive power of the Region. Cleared the field from the problems of a constitutional nature, within the merit of the drafts of law, presented one by the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, which was adopted as the basic text, and the other by Senator Pegorer, who foresee precisely the modification of the Statute of the Region in the matter of local authorities through the abolition of every reference to the Provinces, thus defining a new regional institutional model based on only two levels of political government, expression of popular sovereignty, the Region and the Municipalities. In the amending process in the first Commission, with reference to the establishment of new municipalities, it was envisaged that they could also be established in the form of metropolitan cities, with implicit reference to Trieste and the territory of what will be its former Province. This leads me to a more general reflection on the exorbitant number of metropolitan cities born from the Delrio reform, which seems chaotic and unsatisfactory for at least three reasons. First, because it has foreseen the automatic transformation of entire provincial territories into metropolitan cities without any consideration for more objective criteria, such as levels of population and urbanization, attraction of flows of commuting and mobility in general, presence of productive functions of value. Secondly, because - precisely - it has introduced the possibility of increasing the number of metropolitan cities to a great extent, thus weakening the very concept of metropolitan poles as strategic areas for the revival of competitiveness, on which to concentrate the resources that can be activated with the European structural funds. Thirdly, because it de facto assigns the new entity the same functions as the Provinces, with few additional powers and provides for a weak governance mechanism entrusted to a metropolitan council consisting of a subgroup of mayors and advisers from all the entities involved. The same original concept, which has been discussed since 1990, is thus distorted as a metropolitan city, which becomes a mere place of consultation between the municipalities, each of which has its own functions in its own territory. For a reform whose aim is to relaunch the country's competitiveness through the improvement of institutional efficiency, it is definitely a modest result. But, more generally, it is all the reform of the Provinces that is making water, because the Provinces have not been abolished, waiting for the constitutional reform: in fact the number of local administrators has been multiplied and they have been determined increases of costs, administrative paralysis and decision-making complications, with the concrete risk of destroying apparatuses and technical skills essential today on the territory. And finally, a little more than a year away from the green light to the dismemberment of the provincial organs, the judicial accounting confirmed the negative impact on the public accounts of the Delrio law, highlighting in particular the reorganization of the employees that is throwing into chaos the public administrations of all Italy. With the addition that the last law of stability has cut one billion euros from the account reserved to the Province, against actions previewed from the law Delrio that they are encountering delays and insurmountable difficulties in the implementation phase. This has caused serious disruptions in the finance of the Provinces, since they find themselves managing the same functions as the past, but with the funds available reduced to the bone. Not all reforms, therefore, have positive implications in themselves. The constitutional bill abolishing the Provinces in Friuli-Venezia Giulia has at least the merit of abolishing them really, even if it is foreseeable a phase of passage of deliveries between agencies of complicated implementation that we hope will be managed better than happened in Rome. The abolition of the Provinces has long been in our programmes and therefore, especially taking into account the fact that the Regional Council of Friuli-Venezia Giulia has expressed itself unanimously on this bill, I announce the favorable vote of Forza Italia. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u71	TONINI (PD). Madam President, the Democratic Party will vote with conviction in favour of this proposal to revise the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, and it will do so also because it believes that the special autonomy, and in particular that of Friuli-Venezia Giulia and that of Trentino-Alto Adige, the two great self-governments of the Italian North-East, are successful experiences for Italy and - let me say, President - also for Europe. It is no coincidence that, a few weeks ago, the President of the Council mentioned the special autonomy, in this case of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, as an example to be followed in serious international crises in Europe (the reference was specifically to the crisis of Ukraine), because our special autonomy, in particular those of the two major border areas, the one to the North and the one to the East (then the director of the Brenner and the one that leads us to the Eastern European around Trieste), was an original way of addressing and resolving the issue of the borders that tore apart our old continent throughout the twentieth century. We know that this is an issue that has never been resolved once and for all and that is always lurking and can return: nationalism can return to Europe, and we are seeing some very worrying hints of it in these days and weeks. A hundred years after the Great War, the largest civil war in Europe, which left millions of dead on the ground, the beast of nationalism is far from defeated forever. These two great experiences of special autonomy, located in two areas of frontiers, that between the Latin world and the German world (the one of Friuli-Venezia Giulia is an even triune frontier, because there you meet the Latin world with the German and the Slav world), have averted the war for the borders and have solved in a brilliant way, even if never definitive and never accomplished, the question of coexistence between different in border areas. The question of borders is no longer relevant precisely because, in the European context, linguistic minorities have learned to cooperate with each other, to live together, to manage themselves in a positive way. This reason for the importance of special autonomy must be seen as a positive result and a successful experience for the whole country. In the reform of Title V of Part Two of the Constitution, which we are also reviewing at this time in Parliament, it has been introduced, also in Article 116 that consolidates the experience of the special autonomy, a principle whereby the pilot experience of the special autonomy in exercising autonomously certain competences can become a model and inspiration for a virtuous competition between territories that also involves the Regions with ordinary statutes. It is not by chance that Article 116 of the Constitution, in the third paragraph, provides for the possibility that further forms of autonomy are assigned to the Regions with ordinary statutes precisely in order to make the jump between the special competences of the Autonomous Regions and the ordinary ones of the Regions with ordinary statutes less abrupt. This places the experience of special autonomy within a field of experimentation of margins of autonomy and of self-government ever wider within the unity of the nation and within a European perspective. Of course there is one point that must be kept absolutely firm, especially by those who defend the specialty of the Regions under special statute. The point must be that these experiences of self-government must not cost the community more than the State costs. From this point of view, the bill under consideration is virtuous, because it goes in this direction. We must go in this direction with great determination. Special autonomy is defended and, in general, the system of self-government is defended if it is shown that the principle of subsidiarity is valid, that is, that we can do better, even at lower costs, what is done more closely than voters and taxpayers and not what is done from afar. Finally, Madam President, I would like to mention a statement which Alcide De Gasperi made during the constituent assembly, in the session which devoted itself precisely to the approval of the Statute of special autonomy - in that case - of Trentino-Alto Adige (but certainly the same applies also to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region). "I am also a convinced self-employed person," said De Gasperi, "and that I have sponsored the autonomous tendency, let me tell you that the autonomy will be saved, mature, resist, only on one condition: that they prove to be better than the state bureaucracy, better than the state centralized system, better especially as far as spending is concerned. They do not compete with the State in order not to spend much, but make sure to create a stronger administration and that costs less. Only in this way will autonomy be saved everywhere, because if autonomy should exist at the expense of the State, this autonomy will be apparent for some time and will not last for a long period of time. I believe that this warning cannot fail to question and stimulate the real self-employed who want to work precisely for this objective. This reform, first of all wanted by Friuli-Venezia Giulia, which today sees the approval of this Parliament, goes in the direction I have described. That is why we will support it with great conviction and determination. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u72	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a simultaneous vote on the draft Constitutional Act No. 1289, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves in first resolution. (See Annex B). The constitutional bill No 77 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u73	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1568, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the own-initiative draft law of the Members of Parliament Fiorio and others; Russo and Faenzi; Edge Franco and Palazzotto; Zaccagnini and others; Schullian and others, and 205. The rapporteur, Senator Dalla Tor, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u74	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, social agriculture, which is characterised by the use of the farm to meet social needs, such as rehabilitation and recovery of disadvantaged people, job integration (social inclusion) or educational activities through the so-called "educational farms," is taking on an increasingly significant role also in the light of the recognised value of the multifunctionality of the farm. This multifunctional role must be considered not only on the side of the various income opportunities for the company, but also on that of the different functions that this productive sector can further express within society and the overall country system. From these premises it follows that social agriculture allows to ensure actions to promote healthy and balanced lifestyles and, at the same time, makes available useful services to improve the quality of life of urban inhabitants and rural areas, in a framework of social, economic and even institutional cohesion, with particular reference to territorial structures. As a confirmation of the above, the draft law in question is part of a process based on experiences that, dating back to the 1960s, have determined an increasing attention towards participatory welfare paths, in which the local communities and the various players that make up them have acted actively involving disadvantaged individuals with reduced contractuality, with a progressive increase of virtuous examples of collaboration between local realities and institutions according to new organizational models. However, it must not be forgotten that, from the economic point of view, the integration of social interventions and services on the multifunctional farm does not frustrate its entrepreneurial aims, as demonstrated by the benefits in terms of economic sustainability that have characterized many experiences in the sector. This initiative, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies and examined in conjunction with draft law No 205, comes to the Assembly at the end of a process in the Commission that has made some changes to the text transmitted by the other branch of Parliament, aimed at improving and clarifying in some points, especially in relation to the opinions issued by the Committees on Constitutional Affairs and the Budget, a facility that has been overall shared and confirmed in its main lines. Turning to the illustration of the article, it should be noted first of all that the importance acquired by social agriculture in the economic and social context is extrinsic in Article 1 of the measure, which defines the aims of regulatory intervention, identified in the promotion of social agriculture, as an aspect of the multifunctional role of the agricultural undertaking, called, in this context, to provide social, social and educational services in rural areas. The provision under consideration extends the scope of activities related to those which constitute the farmer, such as the cultivation of the fund or the forest or the breeding of animals, including social agriculture, understood as social services, social health, education and socio-working integration activities, thereby innovating in part the concept of an agricultural undertaking. Article 2 deals with the definitions concerning the different types of activities covered by the draft law, in which it seems appropriate to recall the importance attributed to social cooperatives, social promotion associations and public bodies competent by territory, the latter in the planning of their functions related to agricultural and social activities. In particular, the attention is drawn to paragraph 3, which makes explicit the innovation of the concept of agricultural undertaking, in accordance with the above, qualifying the activities referred to in points (b), (c) and (d) of paragraph 1 as activities related to agricultural activity within the meaning of Article 2135 of the Civil Code. Article 3 regulates the recognition of operators, providing that the regions adapt their provisions on the programming of the local network of services and services, in order to allow the recognition of operators of social agriculture in the agencies in charge. The Commission has approved an amendment specifying that this must be done within the framework of regional powers. The monitoring and evaluation of services and services shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the body responsible for recognition, in accordance with the guidelines defined in accordance with Article 7. The Commission has ordered the deletion of paragraph 2 of the text coming from the Chamber, which provided for the application of the provisions relating to the replacement power of the State vis-à-vis the Regions, in the event of non-compliance, in accordance with the procedure of Article 8 of Law 131 of 2003. Article 4 provides that operators in the sector may set up producer organisations for social agricultural products, in view of the development of networks of inter-branch organisations between producers as an important tool to strengthen their market position and control income fluctuations caused by market instability in times of crisis. The rule specifies that this option is consistent with EU Regulation No 1308 of 2013, which regulates producer organisations and their inter-branch associations and organisations with a new framework. In this way, social agriculture is engaged in an attempt to reach its definition in the framework of European legislation, bearing in mind that, although it is now a widespread phenomenon, and indeed in the process of further expansion, in many countries belonging to the European Union, only in recent years has it been felt the need, in the Community, to make the context in which to plan a governance of the activity more homogeneous. Article 5 lays down provisions concerning premises for the exercise of social farming activities, in accordance with a text which the Commission has amended in relation to that transmitted by the House, since the recognition of rurality has been limited to the rural buildings already existing on the fund only, excluding the possibility of subsequent acquisition for other buildings, while remaining binding on the intended use of the activities in question. The same rule, paragraph 2, states that the Regions may, for the purposes of the exercise of social farming activities, promote the use of the existing real estate in compliance with the typological, architectural and landscape-environmental characteristics. Article 6 provides for support to the sector concerned, identifying different types of support. Paragraph 1 states that the public institutions which manage school and hospital canteens are entitled to include, as priority criteria for the award of supply invitations, the origin of agri-food products from social agriculture operators. Paragraph 2 states that the municipalities provide for specific measures for the exploitation of the products under consideration in trade on public areas, pursuant to Article 28 of Legislative Decree no. 114 of 31 March 1998, with regard to the regulation of trade on public areas, defining in particular the rules of authorisations, carried out on parking spaces given in concession for ten years or on any other area provided that itinerant form. Paragraph 3 assumes a particular importance, also in relation to the following paragraph 4, in that it establishes that, in the context of the procedures of alienation and lease of the agricultural land and the territorial public authorities, priority criteria may be provided to facilitate the development or the establishment of the activities under consideration, utilizing to this purpose also property and land confiscated under the anti-mafia code referred to in Legislative Decree 6 September 2011, n. 159. In this sense, the correlation with paragraph 4, which announces Article 48 (3) (c) of the Anti-Mafia Code, providing that the territorial public authorities may grant free of charge also to the operators of social agriculture real estate confiscated from organized crime. Paragraph 5 calls for the definition of further forms of support to a ministerial decree, without new or higher burdens for public finance, while paragraph 6 provides for the possibility that the Regions, within the framework of rural development plans, promote specific programmes for the multifunctionality of agricultural enterprises with particular regard to the practices of integrated territorial planning and the development of social agriculture, to this end promoting tables of partnership between the stakeholders. Finally, Article 7 establishes at the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy the Observatory on Social Agriculture, defining its functions, composition and organizational arrangements. The functions are identified by paragraph 1, according to which the Observatory is called to define guidelines related to the activities of public institutions, with reference to the recognition of enterprises, monitoring and evaluation of activities, administrative simplification, training and support measures, definition of standard contracts. In addition, the Centre is responsible for monitoring and processing information, with the aim of disseminating good practice, collecting and evaluating research on the effectiveness of social agriculture interventions and proposals for coordination and integration initiatives, as well as communication and animation. Posted from paragraph 2 the obligation of coordination with the bodies established at regional level in the field of social agriculture, paragraph 3 dictates the composition of the Observatory, assigning its appointment to the Minister of agricultural food and forestry policies, within which are present representatives of the central administrations of the Government, of the Regions and autonomous Provinces, of the agricultural professional organizations, of the national networks of social agriculture, of the organizations of the third sector and of the associations of social promotion in the agricultural field. In conclusion, paragraph 4 refers to a decree of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, after agreement with the State-Regions Conference, the definition of the modalities of organization and operation of the Observatory. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u75	Colleagues, since, as has already been announced, the sitting will end at 6.30 p.m. and there will be several speeches on items not included on the agenda, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u78	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CRI). Madam President, I would like to ask for the answer to Question No 4-03327 of 27 January, with which I put to the attention of the Ministers for Labour and Economic Affairs the positions of some 600 Italian Post Office workers, who are in a very difficult situation, given that a judgment which has not yet passed into judgment has allowed them to remain in service for the performance of functions which are also of particular importance in the context of the normal activity of the institution. These recruitments, however, were made under a specific rule which allowed the possibility of temporary recruitment for about 10 months each year. However, this period has lasted over time, evidently because of the Italian Post Office's need to keep these workers in service. Now, a few years have passed and a judgment at first instance has allowed them to remain in service, but of course they expect a definition of their working status. The precarious position keeps these children - aged between 30 and 40 years and with particularly high levels of specialization - in a condition of great difficulty and "subdiction," also for the profiles of dignity that a worker deserves. For these reasons I urge the Government to have, after more than six months, the goodness to pay attention to this topic, especially in view of the statements made recently by the CEO Caio in order to present the industrial plan, which provides for the recruitment of thousands of new employees. This is an extremely positive fact and I would like to be reassured that the new recruitments also guarantee the working positions of those precarious who today represent an organic force structured in Italian Posts that deserves to be considered.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u79	Undersecretary Pizzetti, present here, I think he can take note and urge the competent administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u82	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, I am here again in this House to point out the case of the Smith Bits in Volterra. I had already made an intervention a long time ago and unfortunately today I am once again reporting this very serious situation. Workers have been garrisoning for many days, more than 40 days. The entire population of the Upper Val di Cecina area, in the Province of Pisa, Volterrano, participated in this tragedy of 193 workers who are risking losing their jobs. The same mayor and all the authorities in the area are close at this time to all these families. What happened? Despite the desire to be seen and to be heard, the company asked to remove the garrison, because the workers naturally tried to draw the spotlight on them. They removed the garrison and the company said it would withdraw the mobility, because it had put these workers practically in a position to choose whether to be fired or otherwise. So what's going on? In this case the company does not close immediately. Some meetings were held, even at the MISE not long ago, and it was proposed to save 78 out of 193 workers, divided as follows: 37 employees and 41 workers. Well, that's not saving a company, that's sending people home in two tranches. It is the usual story of the frog that is boiled a little at a time and that eventually dies, without finding the strength to react. The area of Alta Val di Cecina does not offer immediate work opportunities; it is a particular area, which at the moment cannot offer those workers and those workers nothing but that work in that company. So, they're desperate and they're looking for answers. Today I work in the Commission, here in the Senate, I met the president of the Region of Tuscany Enrico Rossi, who together with the Government had made commitments, to look for the way, together with ENI and ENEL, to convert, in the company or near the company, the many workers who need it. President Rossi told me that a date has not yet been set. These workers on July 25, that is, in a few days, if they have not had adequate answers, will be at a terrible crossroads: to be left at home, without even the slightest certainty, and therefore corresponding to them only one year of extraordinary cash integration and then mobility... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Pollini. Mr Paglini (M5S). My speech is therefore aimed at urging Mr Guidi, please, to convene a table as soon as possible to conduct these negotiations and to respond, please, to my two questions, the 4-03900 and the 4-04024, which have not yet been answered. Let's put a hand on the heart and save so many workers. Thank you. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u85	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, there are still major problems for Venice. We have sources that reveal that the Brugnaro-Costa duo is about to ask the Government for the issue of a decree that allows the transit of the great ships from cruise through the San Marco basin, no longer based on the tonnage, but in reference to the year of construction of the ship, asserting that the more modern ones are less polluting and safer and, therefore, compatible. It's something I would never want to explain to my daughter, because I should tell her that a ship is not dangerous based on size, but on the year of construction, something that really cries revenge against any kind of logic. It is also assumed that these shipping companies, in exchange for the contribution of 20 million euros promised for the excavation of the Contorta-Sant'Angelo channel, would owe to the city two, three euros per passenger. This would be a disaster announced for the lagoon balance which, having no longer any reference to the size of the tonnage, with the displacement compared to the section of the waterways, which causes the suspension of the sediments, will help to increase that destructive erosion process for the entire lagoon. Moreover, the issue of emissions would remain open, with the tragic impact on public health, as well as the monstrous impact of large cruise ships on the delicate and protected architectural and urban world heritage of Venice. An almsgiving therefore for the city from the shipowners that, with the permanence of the berths to the docks of the Marittima, assure those agreements between harbour authority and Venice passenger terminals, relative to the services to the passengers and the crocieristica activity in the port of Venice, under conditions of privilege and monopoly. In this regard, the parliamentary question presented in the Senate on 16 February 2015 by Senator Casson remains unanswered, asking the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport to verify any violations of the law. It is paradoxical that a majority party senator does not receive an answer from his own government. The question is that of the nature and regularity of the Venetian harbour situation, that also the responsible national authority anticorruption should probe in order to inform the city. In this context there is a deliberate obscuration of alternative solutions to the mouth of Lido, one of which is currently being evaluated in the national environmental impact assessment (EIA). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude your speech, Senator Girotto. GIROTTO (M5S). I conclude by affirming that the Government is now responsible not to lend itself to similar interests of power, especially if formulated by a harbour Authority with the maximum ease, that with the same ease has abandoned a supported plan for years. Instead, as a 5 Star Movement, we ask only for the umpteenth time to give voice to Venetian citizens. They are competent in this matter. They're the ones who have to go back to running the city. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u88	PHASE (PD). Madam President, at the age of 94, Mr Benvenuto, political commissioner of Garibaldi-Natisone, died. Silvino Poletto, born in Pordenone in 1921, often and with deep pride remembered the solid working origins of his family. The parents, both textile workers, moved for work in various cities in the Northeast, before settling in Gorizia. His father, Giuseppe, fought the First World War and was wounded twice; he was at the head of the fourth hall of the Triestine Cotton Factory of Gorizia, one of the greatest Italian cotton factories of the time. Silvino followed in his work in becoming a textile worker at Safog in Gorizia, but above all he embraced its anti-fascist values. He remembered, in fact, how the father had never been inscribed on the beam. Thus, he began his partisan mission with the Garibaldi-Natisone division of which he became deputy commissioner. During the American period of government, he enrolled in the Communist Party of Venice Julia, collaborating with the Italian-Slovene Antifascist Union and writing in some propaganda newspapers. Silvino Poletto was and is a protagonist of the Gorizia Twentieth century, first as a partisan and then as an official of the Communist Party and the League of Cooperatives. Silvino granted his precious and lucid memoirs to the journalist of "Il Piccolo" Roberto Covaz, who for the Edizioni Biblioteca dell'Immagine wrote the book: ==References====External links== Memories of Silvino Poletto "Partigiano Benvenuto"... In those pages, Poletto, a man with a formidable memory, goes back to the tormented history of Venezia Giulia, up to its entrance to the cotton mill of Piedimonte. However, it is the Partisan season that strongly characterizes the book. Poletto writes: "The alliance of us garibaldini with the partisans of the ninth Corpus of Tito was not a choice, but the necessity to face common against the Nazi overpower, penalty our total annihilation." Then, again, he wrote about the deportations and the climate in Gorizia in May 1945: To understand deportations you need to know what the fascists have done to Slovenians. These are pages that reopen wounds never completely healed, which Poletto faces without hiding. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Fasiolo. PHASE (PD). His birthday on 1 August 1944, when, at dawn, he descended the stairs leading to the lodging on the first floor of the house of the duke, in Viale Corridoni, and met his sister, who said: "Elida, I'll just say hello, warn Mom and Dad that I go partisan" After the war, he could have gone back to work in cotton factory, where his father had introduced him. Putting down your clothes... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] I shall conclude, Madam President. He attended the school of the Communist Party of Frattocchie and worked in Dark workshops next to Giorgio Napolitano. He created the Isontino coops and was a provincial councillor. Poletto said, "Truly, I was a very lucky man." He's a great man we'll all miss. Thank you, Silvino! [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u91	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, two months ago - on 7 May - Terminal 3 at Fiumicino Airport was devastated by a fire. In these two months we have heard choirs with sharp stunned about the conditions of the airport. Today, in the newspaper "Corriere della sera" we read the concerns of the prosecutor of Civitavecchia in relation to the verifications that he himself entrusted to the fire department and emerge irregularities in all other areas of the airport. During the hearing at the Committee of Inquiry into Accidents at Work in the Senate, Dr Musumeci, Director of the Environment Department of the Higher Institute of Health, communicated some values detected following the fire and said: The precautionary measures taken to date are sufficient. The hope is that there will be a downward trend, that the reclamation will be done correctly and that the airport will be able to return to full efficiency in July. Do you understand? Do you understand, Madam President? In the hope of a downward trend. I would point out some discrepancies. Dr Musumeci explains to us that for the Higher Institute of Health the limit of dioxins is that set by the World Health Organization regarding a non-industrial living environment (i.e. 100 femtograms), while, for a study commissioned by Rome Airports and ENAC, the limit is 100,000 femtograms, as from the industrial environment. Therefore, for the ISS, ASL, ARPA and CNR the airport is not an industrial environment, whereas for Rome Airports it is. The President of ENAC states first that he does not understand whether there is a real danger to health or not and that he is the first to ask for a clear check at ASL (a certain assumption of responsibility, because - he says - if there is the real risk we will close the airport). The next day, however, he portrayed the unwise statement. At this point, I ask the questions. When reclamation is made inside Terminal 3, can Pier D remain closed or can it open? If you close the check-in at T3, you create an unsustainable situation and, therefore, the airport will have to close? While the ENAC has reduced to 60 percent the potentialities of the port of call, the attorney of Civitavecchia, that in a few days has dissected the fired structure as demanded from the union Union of base (USB), allowing the intense activities of restoration, still has done firm actions. Now, it is clear that there is also a major problem of economic damage. The final decision will be made on July 28, in the middle of the summer season, with Expo and the Jubilee at the gates; a damage that Aeroporti of Rome has not yet quantified, but to which it has overcome maintaining the same level of passengers and concentrating them de facto on larger aircraft. The commercial damage to the T3 facilities is irrecoverable and will force many operators to close. Having said that, I would like to close this speech with a question. Are certainly admissible, acceptable and in accordance with the decisions of Aeroporti di Roma, that it strives not to drag the port of call into chaos; but for how much still we will have to accept that week to week they change the dispositions for the operation of the port of call, without respectful decisions neither of the passengers, neither of the workers? [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u94	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, it was July 7, 1944, when the order of evacuation of the city under German command appeared on the streets of Carrara. The women of Carrara opposed the German diktat and did not lose heart because they knew well what was the goal of all: do not abandon at any cost their homes and their belongings. They had made those exhausting and dangerous journeys through the Apuan Islands to exchange salt, the only raw material they had, with flour and other food with the Emilian women. With their load they climbed to steep mountain paths, often barefoot, on sharp marble chips and went to Garfagnana in search of food. Others, pushing carts by hand, made longer itineraries up and down the steps of the Apennines, up the Cisa or the Cerreto, and dropped into Emilia. After one or two weeks they returned exhausted, bleeding, losing weight, but they carried their load of flour, the ones returning, because the streets were machine-gunned, bombarded, full of dangers and pitfalls, and many remained on the road, shot down by bullets or by the exhaustion, or robbed of their cargo. In July 1944 the women of Carrara gathered in the square of the Herbs and, compact, holding banners and shouting slogans, which somehow instilled courage to themselves, they headed towards the seat of the German command, challenging the invader. Suddenly, from the group of soldiers carrying machine guns, a handpiece broke off, approached the women, grabbed four of them and led them into the command. Among the protesters there was a feeling of dismay, then the boldness took over and came even more threateningly to the front door of the palace. The Germans pointed their weapons, the tragedy was touched. The arrival of the prefect of Carrara helped to keep the state of apprehension high; the official entered the palace and left a few minutes later bringing the four women with him. Then he turned to the crowd and announced that the German command had suspended the evacuation order. Thanks to Carrara Carrara women she had returned to the Carraras, and I still thank her today for this act of courage. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u95	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-478.ana.u96	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, July 8, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.38.
