ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 19 February.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u4	MASTRANGELI (Mixed). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. [[Ironic applause from the M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] . Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u5	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u6	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u7	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1749. The rapporteur, Senator Fornaro, requested authorization to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u8	Madam President, Mr. Representative of the Government, on the substance, the decree that we are discussing today, in article 1, paragraph 1, provides that, from the year 2015, the exemption from the municipal tax own (IMU), provided for by letter h), paragraph 1, of article 7 of the legislative decree of 30 December 1992, no. 504, applies to all agricultural land, as well as to those uncultivated, located in the municipalities classified totally mountain referred to in the list of municipalities prepared by ISTAT and to agricultural land, as well as to those uncultivated, owned and conducted by direct farmers and professional farmers, registered in agricultural welfare, located in the municipalities classified partially mountain in the aforementioned list of ISTAT. For the sake of clarity, I think it might be useful to recall the declaration that ISTAT uses and that refers to Law No 991 of 25 July 1952 which states, in Article 1: For the purposes of applying this Act, the census municipalities are considered to be situated for at least 80% of their area above 600 metres of altitude above sea level and those in which the difference between the lower and upper altitudes of the municipal territory is not less than 600 metres, provided that the average taxable income per hectare, recorded, resulting from the sum of the Dominican income and the agricultural income, determined pursuant to the Royal Decree-Law of 4 April 1939, No 589, converted into Law of 29 June 1939, No 976, plus the coefficient 12 pursuant to Legislative Decree of 12 May 1947, No 356, does not exceed 2400 lire. This is the reference point introduced by the decree-law under consideration. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u9	Senator Fornaro, I am interrupting you to invite the senators present in the Chamber to lower the tone of voice. It is difficult to listen to the oral relationship with this buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u10	Please continue, Senator Fornaro. Mr Fornaro, rapporteur. Of course, as far as the partially mountainous municipalities are concerned, there is no such precise declaration; in the hearing of ISTAT it was stated that those who have some of the requirements I have described above are considered to be such. Paragraph 2, again of Article 1, provides that the exemption applies also in the case of concession of land in convenient or for rent to direct farmers and professional agricultural entrepreneurs. Paragraph 3 provides that the above criteria for the definition and exemption of mountain or partly mountain land are also applicable to the tax year 2014. Paragraph 4 is a sort of rule of best favor, because it establishes that the IMU for 2014 is not due on land defined as exempt under the Ministerial Decree of 28 November 2014, and that instead they are taxable due to the application of the cited paragraphs. Finally, paragraph 5 extends the date for payment of the tax to 10 February. In order to better understand the reasons for this decree-law, however, we need to take a few steps back and also examine the work done by the Commission. In fact, I would like to stress that the decree-law, thanks to an uncommon effort by the Government in January, has been considerably improved, so as to allow - as I recalled - the total exemption of the mountain municipalities and the partial exemption of those that are partially so. The decree-law left, however, an unsolved question: in fact, they had been declared exempt first by the ICI and then by the IMU the so-called municipalities of disadvantaged hills, to which since 1992 - hence from the introduction of the two aforementioned taxes - had been recognized a facilitated treatment, in accordance with a law of 1977 and a list then structured, because of their reduced ability to produce income, compared to those falling in flat areas, and the role played to safeguard the hydrogeological structure of the territory. Circular No 9 of 14 June 1993 identified 6,103 municipalities with a total exemption. The Monti Government, which - as it will be remembered - had anticipated the entry into force of the IMU in 2012, had also confirmed the exemptions for agricultural land. It confirmed, therefore, that list of 6,000 and intervened only on the value, increasing it by 25%, and on a series of tax reductions for farmers. In Decree no. 16 of 2012 a ministerial decree had already been foreseen for a new classification for the purposes of the land IMU (decree, otherwise, never issued). We arrive then to Decree-Law No 66 of 2014, in which it is established that, with a decree of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, new criteria for the exemption of the territories of the Municipalities were subsequently identified with a forecast of increase of revenues of 350 million from 2014. For a number of reasons, not totally shared, this ministerial decree was issued on 28 November 2014, i.e. only 18 days before the date of expiry of the payment, which - I remember - was 16 December 2014. That decree essentially identified new criteria, linked to the height of the municipality, reported in the ISTAT classifications. In this case, too, in the hearing with ISTAT, we decided in fact to refer to the height of the town hall (it is, therefore, true what appeared in the newspapers). In essence, the municipalities with a height of up to 280 meters paid all and all; in those from 280 to 600 meters the exemption was valid only for direct farmers and professional farmers (IAP); while over 600 meters was worth the total exemption. Virtually there was a shift from over 6,000 municipalities exempted to only 1.498. Subsequently, with the law of stability, the payment was deferred on January 26, 2015. We then come to Decree-Law No. 4 of 2015, which we are discussing today in the context of the conversion, which introduces the criteria that I have previously mentioned, bringing the exemptions from 1.498 to 3.456 and extending the partial exemption to 655 municipalities. This means that a significant step forward has already been taken. In the Commission, we tried to resolve or try to deal with the question of the municipalities of the so-called disadvantaged hill, that is to say those municipalities which were on the 1977 list, reaffirmed by the 1993 circular, but which no longer fall within the ISTAT classification criteria, either as mountain or as partially mountain, and which in fact were found to be equal to the plain and, therefore, with total payment, having characteristics and profitability, in most cases, very different from the plain. The objective of course - I believe that this must be clear and will be reiterated in the Government's intervention - is to bring back the matter of taxation on agricultural land within the local tax and get substantially to 2016 including this also within the game. However, there was still a "tail" of 2014 and give some signals for 2015. That is what the Commission's work has focused on, for which I thank the President and all my colleagues. In essence, the work we are presenting to the House sees, with regard to taxation, therefore the 2014 IMU, some interventions: the first is a moratorium... [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] If Mr Malan would allow me, I would move on. The first contains a moratorium until 31 March, i.e. those who had not paid by 10 February, because of the violation of the Statute of the taxpayer's right and the objective confusion that had arisen, will have the possibility to pay until 31 March to the municipalities without application of interest and sanctions, on the model that had already been used - as you will recall - with the so-called mini IMU. It was then established, with amendment, a right to reimbursement for taxpayers who had paid on the basis of the classification of the list of 28 November 2014 and subsequently found themselves with a classification that declared totally or partially exempt its municipality. Finally, there is a very delicate point concerning the relations between the State and the Municipalities: on the occasion of the decree of 28 November 2014, the State estimated the theoretical revenue and essentially removed it from the transfers of the State, authorising the Municipalities to make a conventional assessment for an equal amount. This, from the point of view of the 2014 balance sheet, may have no effect. Instead, it has produced - and I stress this because, in my opinion, it is important that this does not happen again in these terms - liquidity effects, because the municipalities found themselves having significant less unplanned liquidity, on balance sheets closed in December 2014. And only on 10 February, among other things, could they have received this tax with taxpayers' payments. Therefore, what we expect is that at September 30, 2015 the point is made and that, Common by Municipality, the real assessment of the collection with the theoretical collection and, therefore, the State provides substantially to compensate these municipalities. For 2015, we tried to work on a number of issues in the Commission and most of them were unanimously approved. As for the first, for those municipalities in the so-called disadvantaged hill - I repeat the criteria - there is a deduction of EUR 200 for farmers and for the IAPs. It is a signal; certainly the expectations were higher, but in any case it is, objectively, a signal of attention, in order to be able to give a correct "scalarity" between mountains and plains. And so, basically, the deduction of EUR 200 is introduced. I consider this to be an important result of dialogue and parliamentary work, in the dialogue between the Government and Parliament. The second point we resolved was a minor but somehow symbolic issue. From the ISTAT classification some smaller islands (a few, but still some there were) were excluded. On the other hand, we have been able to obtain the total exemption for these smaller islands as well. 9:51 p.m. (Follow-up to Mr Fornaro, rapporteur). Another important and significant issue was an objective asymmetry with regard to the taxation of agro-silvo-pastoral land with undivided and unmistakable collective property: an important and historical tradition in many realities that, on the basis of Decree-Law 24 April 2014, No 66, had been exempted from tax for 2014 and that in a certain sense "surprisingly" the tax was reintroduced in 2015. Also in this case, in comparison with the Government, we were essentially able to equate 2015 to 2014 and, therefore, to totally exempt this type of agricultural land from tax. Finally, we have not solved two issues which I believe will be the subject of agendas. The first is about rent. The interpretation that, with a ministerial circular, the MEF gives is essentially that the facility can be transferred only if the rent and the convenient are made from farmer to farmer. There is a question within families whether or not they rent to their children. On this we have not been able to find the covers - there will be an agenda - which I hope can be found before June 2015, i.e. when the first payment will be made. The second question raised by some of my colleagues concerns a problem of discrepancies in the ISTAT classification of the Provinces, which are, on the other hand, also defined in the constitutional reform bill as entirely mountainous. On this too there is an agenda, already approved in the Commission, which basically asks ISTAT to modify the classification in order to make uniform for all the municipalities of that province the characteristics of mountaineers. In addition, the Government used this measure as a technical vehicle by proposing an amendment to the bill of conversion concerning the extension of the tax delegation in the three plus three (three months plus three months) formula for the opinions of the Commissions. In conclusion, I believe I can say that, in the Commission, good work has been done and I hope that in the debate in this House, in accordance with the positions (some of which are also very strong with regard to the taxation of agricultural land), we will take note of the work we have done and of the willingness that the Government had, before, in issuing this decree-law and, subsequently, in accepting, if not entirely, some of the requests made in the Commission. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u11	I inform you that a question for a preliminary ruling and a question for suspension have been submitted. He asked Senator Bellot to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u12	Madam President, with this question we would like to highlight the situation that arises with the continuous use of the urgent decree, which is not, in fact, urgent, so much so that the reasons we are going to present could be used to highlight other situations created in this House. It is well known that the abuse of the urgent decree is now an incurable evil for our democracy, that the many calls of the Head of State, which we have all heard in the past, and the numerous judgments of the Constitutional Court have failed to eradicate. Our constitutional dictation, in fact, provides that the legislative power belongs to the Chambers (or, better, belonged to the Chambers) and that only in cases of necessity and urgency - I stress: necessity and urgency - this can be exercised by the Executive. It is therefore quite clear to everyone how the exercise of power - in this legislative case - is quite different from the attribution of that power, even more so if this is established at the constitutional level. This unhealthy practice, which was established already during the first Republic, and which certainly produces a vulnus in Article 70 of the Constitutional Charter, perhaps - and I say perhaps - could be justified at the time, when the Assemblyal degeneration of our Parliament produced a real and effective flooding of the institutions. But today we believe that this practice cannot be justified or corrected in any way we want to see it. Today, after all the institutional, regulatory and electoral reforms, which, while leaving unchanged our form of parliamentary government, have opposed a strengthening of the principle of majority and premierate, this is no longer justified. And we in the League no longer want to justify it, because it is an emptying and a mortification of Parliament's role. Among other things, this inconvenient use of the urgent decree deprives the opposition - and, as other colleagues recalled yesterday, today we are the opposition, but tomorrow there may be others - of its power to exercise the function of direction and political control, which is debased. Therefore, the principle of majority voting, which has so much been condemned as a panacea of the Italian parliamentary inflamement, must not prejudice the protection of the right of opposition which, in a democratic system such as ours, or which at least such is intended to be defined, is and must be constitutionally guaranteed. Today, after Law No 400 of 1988, after the reform of the parliamentary regulations and after the electoral reform in the majority sense, the use of emergency legislation finds its only political reason in the fact that the Government uses the instrument of the decree-law only because it enjoys a preferential lane in Parliament and reduces the time of approval compared to a normal bill. It is clear, therefore, that the Government operates in full awareness of crossing the constitutional limits only and exclusively because it is unable to find a cohesive parliamentary majority that can, quickly, proceed to the introduction of a measure according to the ordinary legislative process. The reality is simply this: you do not have a majority and the certainty of numbers. This continuous and incessant recourse to the decree of urgency has, therefore, lost all presupposition of exceptionality. [[Brusio.]] President, I'm sorry, but I'm having a hard time hearing my voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u13	Colleagues, allow Senator Bellot to do her speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u14	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Madam President, you, too, were not listening to my speech and, therefore, I am not surprised. The continuous and incessant recourse to the decree of urgency should instead be the aim of a legitimate and legal legal justification, breaking every mechanism of balance and balance thought out by our Constitution. The Government therefore, for the umpteenth time, force that though miserable, but still existing, check and balance Italian to move, illegitimately, to the head of the Government, a power that instead belongs - or we would have wanted it to belong again - to the Chambers. And this is happening in the deafening silence of the majority sitting in this House, which stands still in the face of this continuing violation of the constitutional dictation. As it remains immobile in the face of unwise and at all appropriate political choices, such as those taken in this case, in which the Government intervenes with a decree-law on a reform of an ordinamental nature for which, not only ex lege, but for reasons of political responsibility, ordinary legislative intervention would be required. I emphasize that the Constitutional Court has several times remembered how the norms ordinamentali cannot ask, by their very nature, urgent interventions, but that indeed - as last the Consulta has found in the sentence n. 220 of 2013 - for such participations is more appropriate, in extrema ratio, the instrument of the decree delegated. The rules of order - the Court writes again in the aforementioned judgment - as such, do not lend themselves to be modified, for obvious reasons contingent, with the instrument of the decree-law, which constitutes a limiting instrument of the parliamentary debate - I want to highlight the limiting term - on issues of obvious constitutional importance, what is the collective contribution to public expenditure, as laid down in Article 53 of the Constitution, to the first paragraph. The Consultative, in this regard, was very clear and in 2013 reiterated that the decree-law is not an adequate instrument to carry out an organic and system reform, which not only finds its motivations in requirements manifested by not a short period, but requires implementation processes necessarily prolonged over time, such as to make indispensable suspensions of effectiveness, referrals and progressive systematizations, which are poorly reconciled with the immediacy of effects naturalized to the decree-law, according to the constitutional design. With regard to non-compliance with the Constitutional Court's instructions, it cannot fail to recognize itself as the decree-law under consideration, in reforming the system of municipal tax on agricultural land, is of a legal nature. I would like to remind you here that, in the past, in this Chamber, there have been clear violations of the constitutional dictation and of the Court's appeals, in the face of the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 16 of 2012, which delegated to a special ministerial decree the identification of persons exempt from tax according to an altimetric criterion, just as the eyes have closed when converting Decree-Law No 66 of 2014 (the famous measure containing the measure of EUR 80) amending it. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u15	I ask colleagues to lower the volume of the buzz, which makes it absolutely impossible for the senator to raise her voice to override it. I invite you to a minimum of respect.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u16	I will not hand over the speech, Madam President, but I would like to continue to explain it, because I think it is important, and I would ask you to manage this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u17	He also asks his colleagues to behave properly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u18	BELLOT (LN-Aut). But you run this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please continue your intervention, Senator. BELLOT (LN-Aut). Faced with the unjustified delay and the macroscopic inconsistencies of the interministerial decree of 28 November 2014, which should have implemented the provisions of the aforementioned decrees, the Government should have limited itself to the extension of the deadline, as was the case for Decree-Law No 185 of 16 December 2014. On the other hand, taking advantage of the suspension, then unconfirmed, of the decree-law by the TAR of Lazio, it provided for a new decree to replace the criteria and indices of the exemption of the tax, in order to widen the audience of taxpayers and of course to make cash. In this subsequent promulgation of decree-laws, a well-hidden attempt to repeat the instrument of decree of urgency may well be revisited, of which the Constitutional Court declared the most absolute inconstitutionality with judgment No. 360 of 1996. With this pronunciation, the Council wanted to put an end to the previous practice of recurrence, as one of the most obvious and strong violations of Article 77 of the Constitution, of which the perpetuation was now unsustainable. The repetition of the decree-law empties, to say the least, the presuppositions of necessity and urgency of the decree-law and can only be admissible, and only, where different and autonomous reasons of exception arise that legitimate derogations from the ordinary legislative attribution to Parliament. Moreover, the extension of the period of payment of the tax had already been the subject of the previous Decree-Law No 185 of 16 December 2014, also issued near the expiry of the payment. Therefore, in Decree-Law No. 4 of 2015 today under examination - in our opinion - there is an attempt to repeat a decree-law. Of course, it comes from itself as these continuous, inorganic, irrational and schizophrenic legislative interventions, among other things, enacted at a tight time rate - even today we will have changes and exchanges of the calendar of the work of the Assembly - cause confusion and uncertainty of the law for the professionals, but above all for the simple taxpayer, who finds himself faced with an incomprehensible and vexatory regulatory mass, when instead the task of the administrations should be to simplify and make at least the payment of a tax simpler. The deadlines can no longer be counted and the difficulty of supporting all this is obvious. There is, therefore, a difficulty for taxpayers and a lack of respect for them. The decree-law that the Government would like to convert from this Assembly does not take into account the financial difficulties present at this time in our country, and not only for citizens, but also for smaller municipalities, which are in an objective difficulty of lack of cash and liquidity, and with an objective difficulty in closing budgets and also in the ability to provide services that should be assured to citizens who pay taxes. It should be recalled that Article 10 of the Taxpayer's Statute provides that no sanctions or interest on late payments or increases should be imposed. We have worked with the Commission to ensure that this is not done at all, precisely by reference to the taxpayer's Statute, in order to ensure that there is no iniquity over iniquity. Finally, the provisions of this decree-law are clearly contrary to the second paragraph of Article 53 of the Constitution since, by identifying in the character of the mountaineer the parameter establishing the discrimination for the exemption or not from the payment of the tax, it imposes a criterion that openly collides with the constitutional principle of the progressiveness of the tax obligation. This should in fact be compared to the contribution capacities of each taxpayer and certainly not to the territorial location of the good. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. BELLOT (LN-Aut). In this regard, let us remember that the national territory has different territorial realities and fragmentations and there is also a classification of mountain municipalities or not that probably, as has been said, is outdated, unfair and even incorrect. For these reasons, we ask the Assembly to reflect on the arguments put forward and to decide not to proceed with the examination of draft law No 1749. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u19	I would once again ask colleagues to lower their voices, because it is absolutely impossible to speak and listen for those who want it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u20	He asked Senator Ruvolo to explain the suspensive question QS1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u21	Madam President, a first remark that I would like to make to the House is the lack of the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy or, in any case, his Deputy Minister or his Undersecretary, entrusting this matter exclusively to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and FI-PdL XVII]] For me, this lack already says a lot and I might even stop talking, but I will make some considerations. With regard to the final result, I preannounce for those who listen to us outside the Chamber, that we have tabled the question for a preliminary ruling with the knowledge that the numbers will crush any proposal for common sense. It is now a well-established practice to resort to the decree of urgency: it is done for everything; let alone if it is not done for this issue too, in my opinion essential for the economy of our country. On many occasions, in the Commission, in the House and in public debates, when we talk about agriculture, everyone is beating their chests, saying that we must do this or that because agriculture is one of the founding pillars of our economy. The result is that from this as from previous governments, the world of agriculture is regularly put underfoot. In addition to being unconstitutional, this measure creates disparities between citizens holding land, because those on the one hand and those on the other, those in the mountains and those in the plain have a totally different treatment. This is what we have said in various press releases and in the Agriculture Commission, which is regularly snatched of its functions, which are once entrusted to the Environment Commission, once to another Commission according to criteria that I do not understand. The truth is that when it comes to agriculture, it is an issue that we must include anyway, and why? Because we have to put our hands in farmers' pockets. This is the real reason why the measure under consideration was born. There is a basic mess, and it is that we refer to a 1952 rule, modified in 1992, then in 2004 and 2014, and it has repeatedly tried to put its hands in the pockets of farmers and farmers. I am talking about confusion, Madam President, because it makes the rule that is written in this provision laugh, which provides that those who should have paid in 2014 should have done so immediately, by 10 February this year. The deadline, that is, is fixed while a debate is taking place. Let us say that someone has already paid: what should be done if this House has the common sense to avoid making lowland and mountain farmers pay? Then what is the system to reimburse those who had already paid? It's really crazy. We have tabled amendments to the Commission to extend the deadline for payment at least to the date of conversion of this decree. But what were we saying about extraordinary? Today it is 25 February and farmers should have paid by 10 February. But that's not enough, is it? If it is not confusion, this, what is it? Possibly? Not knowledge of matter? You just have to take point, no matter who hits you, from north to south. But we cannot go on in this way, on these very delicate subjects. Finally, there will still be opportunities to speak in general debate and in the explanation of vote, and then we will compare it with the majority on the point. I very much appreciated the rapporteur's speech, but he was climbing over the mirrors, because there is no real reason to hit farmers' capital goods, that is, agricultural land. There is a clear disparity in treatment and therefore a clear violation of the constitutional dictation. For these reasons, we call for at least one act of great responsibility and common sense on the part of this House, in order to put this measure back on the Commission's merits. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u22	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single discussion will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and will take place in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u25	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the reasons set out by Senator Bellot and Senator Ruvolo for the vote in favour of Forza Italia on the prejudices would be absolutely sufficient. We add some substantive notes, as well as strictly procedural ones. From a procedural point of view, I would like to stress what Senator Ruvolo has said about the absolute contempt that this Government continues to have of Parliament, by setting deadlines for the expiry of certain obligations by the citizens included in the 60 days foreseen for the conversion into law of the decree. [[Applause from Senators Mussini and Malan.]] This means that the President-in-Office of the Council has made it clear that Parliament, as he has said in the last few hours, during his extemporaneous press conferences on internal problems abroad, is an obstacle for him to overcome with all possible instruments, but of course the most effective instrument he has in his hand is the coercion of the will of Members. This would suffice to indicate the absolute non-sharing of the content of this decree-law. However, there are other substantive arguments, which are also related to the manner in which this matter has been dealt with in recent months by a ministerial decree, and therefore of course not susceptible to parliamentary examination, which in November has indisputably established what the land of the Municipalities could be exempted and which not, establishing as a parameter the elevation of the municipal house of the Municipality (there was therefore also an increase in public construction, because some Municipalities rushed immediately to build municipal offices at the highest points of its territory). We are talking about conditions of absolute incompetence, but also of neglect in such a delicate sector as the primary one, even if agriculture is now a primary sector only in economic jargon, since in government jargon, on the contrary, it is a sector absolutely to be penalized, neglected and vexed. In fact, if the combined effect of the measures on agricultural IMU were to be consolidated, as outlined by the Government, we would have the collapse of the real estate market of the land, as has already happened for the buildings, with the consequent abandonment of the land, as unfortunately should not be. In fact, it should encourage those who keep agriculture alive, in particular in some more delicate areas as regards the hydrogeological structure of the country. We complain then about floods and rains that create disasters and landslides, while we encourage land abandonment with a senseless fiscal policy. We are for the absolute exclusion of the IMU from agricultural land: we will reiterate this in the course of the debate, including through the presentation and discussion of our amendments. We are absolutely convinced, as Senator Ruvolo also noted, that what we are discussing today is an economic policy topic, which refers to a sector that deserves the presence of the same representative of the Department of Agriculture. Why doesn't the Minister of Agricultural Policy come to talk about agricultural IMU, which is certainly one of the key points that can encourage farmers to stay in the fields and not abandon them? And why is the Minister for the Environment not present at the debate on environmental crime provisions? There are strange delegations in this Parliament for which one escapes the main objective from the point of view of the economic interest of the country to box in some side interests, certainly important, such as those of the cashier and to introduce taxes - which is one of the main interests of this Government - or the legalist one to tighten the penalties for crimes, without taking into account the systemic balance of criminal law, as is happening for example in the discussion of the bill on environmental crimes. From this point of view, Mr President, I must complain about an absolute lack of intervention by the presidency of the Senate: the measure we are considering should not be entrusted to the Finance Committee alone, but also to the Agriculture Commission, which, in my opinion, is the first to assess the effects of fiscal intervention on the area within its competence: this is what has been done to examine the provisions on environmental crimes, entrusted jointly to the Justice and Environment Commissions, even if it sees the presence of the representative of the Ministry of Justice. Here we are faced with a clear constitutional injury because, at a time when there is discrimination - and I come back to the subject of the decree - between the direct farmer enrolled in agricultural welfare and direct farmer not enrolled in agricultural welfare, we know very well that this discrimination is born to significantly decrease the number of the exempt, of those who work the land. We know very well that the vast majority of those who work on the land as direct farmers today are pensioners, since only the elderly are working in agriculture now, the only ones to defend our fields, since unfortunately the mechanism of integrating youth entrepreneurship into agriculture is rare. The intolerable discrimination between the main farmer and the direct farmer concerns both the profile of compulsory entry to the agricultural pension - which is laid down in this decree - and that of the higher agricultural income compared to the working income. In this respect, we know very well that the re-evaluation of agricultural incomes in very rare cases - large-scale crops or large-scale intensiveness - is able to exceed the minimum pension profitability. This further discrimination therefore makes the content of this decree-law unacceptable. For these reasons and for other reasons, which colleagues from Forza Italia will present during the general discussion and during the examination of the amendments, Forza Italia will vote in favour of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u26	We greet the students of the Istituto comprensivo statale "Oppido Molochio Varapodio" of Oppido Mamertina, in the province of Reggio Calabria. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u29	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, the difficulties that colleagues have encountered in this measure tell you a lot about how the government operates. It is very true that there is discrimination between landowners and farmers depending on where they have agricultural land. It is inconceivable, at constitutional level, to create discrimination. It is also true that, before, with the Ministerial Decree of 28 November 2014, the situation was worse, because many other farmers were hit by the tax, and, therefore, the 5 Star Movement, reaffirming its opposition to the IMU on agricultural land, does not believe that it is appropriate to block this measure, even if it was born badly. We, then, will abstain. In the Commission, as Mr Fornaro explained, we tried to put some patches on a badly born measure, on a lightness of the Government that in Decree-Law No 66 of 2014 tried to make some sort of cash. We shall, in our general discussion, set out the other reasons which we have tried to bring to light in the debate in the Finance Committee. I agree with Mr D'Ali that the Committee on Agriculture should also have been involved in the debate, so as to have even more weight, if anything, than the number of land involved and the amount of money needed. In fact, as those who have been present in the debate in the Finance Committee know, we have often had a problem in understanding how much economic resources it takes to get to the cover. In the question referred for a preliminary ruling, we shall abstain. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u30	I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Bellot and other senators. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the question of suspensive QS1, presented by Senator Ruvolo and other senators. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u31	Madam President, the decree-law that we are about to convert into law is exemplary because it bears with it characteristics and consequences that distinguish the Renzi Government and its work: the voracity in the levying of taxes, superficiality, arrogance, inefficiency, contradictoryity and voracity. The agricultural IMU is a new asset that is added to the hated IMU and TASI, to the taxes on houses and sheds. It is confirmation that the left in the government is greedy with taxes. I recall that Decree-Law No 23 of 2011, concerning fiscal federalism, issued before the advent of the appointed governments, provided for the exemption from the ICI for agricultural land in mountainous and hilly areas. Then, in April 2014, the Decree-Law No 66, known as the IRPEF-80 euro decree, with which Prime Minister Renzi, in order to finance the electoral march of the Europeans, has set himself the objective of raising at least 350 million from the agricultural sector. And so we intervened with a tense leg, reducing the facilities hitherto recognized to the agricultural sector and imposing the unexpected leap. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u32	Colleagues, please lower the tone of the buzz or leave the Chamber, otherwise the speaker will not be able to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u33	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Thank you, Mr President, I will only resume when there is silence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then I think we're gonna have to suspend the session. Senator De Petris, would you please drop out? Could you turn down the volume of the voices? Please, Senator Arrigoni. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). The League - let me point this out - has immediately resisted with suppressive amendments in the absolute silence of the majority and PD, although many parliamentarians, only late, have noticed the crap and have even had the nerve to stand up to paladins and only defenders of the agricultural sector attacked. I stress the superficiality because, with guilty delay compared to the prediction of Decree-Law no. 66 of 2014, the ministerial decree that had to establish the new criteria to establish the Municipalities exempt from the application of the leap was issued only on 28 November last year, in serious and scandalous delay with respect to the expected times and full of macroscopic inconsistencies, taking a cold shower to the more than 4300 Municipalities that, to operating budgets closed and already settled, have been seen to cut the solidarity fund for a total total of 360 million. Only on 28 November did the 4,300 mayors note that they would still have to interpret the role of tax collectors on behalf of the State and therefore charge taxes to landowners by 16 December, so in a handful of days. Only on 28 November did the mayors realize that the criterion chosen to establish exemptions, that of the height of the town hall, was demential: a madness not to take into account, in some way, the height of the earthly good. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Hence the sacrosanct protests of the mayors and the appeals to the TAR that rejected the measure. I would like to stress the arrogance - or conceitedness as Mr D'Anna described it yesterday - because the process of this rule confirms a modus operandi that says a lot about the competence of the Government: that of making measures indisputing the good of citizens and local authorities not only on the merits, since it is a continuous of new taxes and increases, but also in the method. Arrogance is inherent in the retroactivity of the tax. A citizen arrives almost at the end of the year and discovers that within a few days he has to pay a new jump but above all that he has to pay it also for the whole 2014 almost already finished. A mayor makes the estimate, convinced that he can count on certain resources, even if limited by the continuous cuts in the law of stability, and then arrives the phenomenon Renzi that must amaze the world with special effects, but as always making others pay the bill. And here it is that with the same decree 80 euros, in April with immediate effect, therefore in the course of exercise, it cuts 700 million to Municipalities and Provinces, it cuts another 700 to the Regions and, with effect delayed to 28 November, to 4,300 Municipalities it cuts another 360 million, without giving them the guarantees of being able to return to the hole. Shame! I stress the inefficiency and the schizophrenia normative because in order to reach today, after the primary norm contained in the decree-law of April last year, we had to pass, in three months, through as many as four measures. There was in fact the ministerial decree of 28 November 2014, the subsequent decree-law of 16 December that had to postpone the payment date of the leap to 26 January 2015; this decree-law was therefore transvaded into the law of stability (just to make it decay); finally, the decree-law today in conversion that modified the audience of the exempts, taking back the old ISTAT classification of 1992 of the mountain municipalities and also again extended the date of payment, but only to 10 February: date still inadequate, because inevitably before that of conversion of the decree. I would like to ask: how much time have the Members lost to submit questions, resolutions and amendments; how much money and time have the municipal administrations lost to make the budgets square and to bring actions? How long has Parliament been and remains committed to dealing with this issue? So much and precious time taken away from the more in-depth evaluation of other measures which, on the other hand, are fired at blows of confidence. You see, Prime Minister Renzi, you continue to resort to law decrees and to place trust on them not because oppositions do obstructionism, as stated yesterday in France. It is one of the many lies that she, as a cheat master, is able to tell. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You use decrees because you see Parliament as a harp, a burden that you would do without and which you allow to draw up measures with the hourglass. Moreover, you almost always resort to the institution of trust precisely in order to manifest inability to enact measures without criticality, errors and smears and that take weeks to be corrected. It happened last week with the Ilva decree and is repeated today with the agricultural IMU, two measures on which minorities have shown a deep sense of responsibility and respect for the various involved and penalized. As for the contradiction, the Renzi Government speaks of support for economic activities, but here the agricultural sector suffers a further blow to fill up the greedy coffers of the state. Between TASI on rural buildings, TASI on agricultural land, revaluation of Sunday incomes of 2012, reductions in oil concessions for agriculture and other harassment we are talking about a sector, the agricultural one, for which, between 2012 and 2014, supported by the PD and the New Right Center, the figure in question is equal to one billion, not to mention that to cover the 90 million euros of less revenue than the initial 360, deriving from the greater exemptions, the agricultural sector is still hit by canceling the fund for the killing of IRAP for seasonal workers. Then there is confusion, uncertainty, disorientation, anger of citizens and mayors. These are inevitable consequences in the face of an approximate and irresponsible way of lawmaking. They are negative consequences that reign between mayors and citizens who, even after the Delrio law on functions and responsibilities, find themselves with the agricultural IMU and cannot explain why so many mistakes. In fact, after four measures we have a heterogeneous case history. We have owners who with the interministerial decree were subject to the leap and now they are no longer. For many of them who paid the tax the government had not thought about the return of money, and only thanks to amendments and the battle of the North League will they be able to obtain the malt. We have landowners who were previously exempt and now instead have to pay, unlike those who were immediately obliged to jump, who do not pay for 2014. We have municipalities that have returned to being exempted that do not know when they will be reimbursed by the cut they have undergone. There are municipalities that must apply the jump and are in difficulty due to the absence of agricultural land databases and therefore are unable to inform citizens that they are new IMU subjects. We have municipalities included in mountain communities, and even in the provinces defined by the Delrio law, some of which are classified mountain and others only partially mountain. But I say: in these months you could not take the old and then fished ISTAT list drawn up on the basis of a qualification of "mountanity" that goes back to a law of 1952 and update it according to the legislative novelties? I conclude: the North League immediately moved to cancel this shameful robbery, with amendments already deleted from Decree-Law No 66 of 2014, which gave rise to chaos, then with the decree-competitiveness law, the law of stability, the thousandprorogues and above all today's decree-law, which acts only in a perspective of reduction of the damage, widening the exemption for the mountain municipalities; although reduced, however, the audience of the new Municipal tax-taxable persons remains wide and therefore, in the end, remains an unjust tax of 270 million against agriculture. For us, the basic problem remains: the new assets must be abolished, and that is all. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] It consoles us a little - as a League, which has fought like a lion in the Commission - to have obtained two significant results on problems that we first put to the attention of the Groups: firstly, the reimbursement of the jump for those who have already paid the tax for 2014 and that now, with the new criteria, is exempted; secondly, the cancellation of sanctions and interest on late payments for those who will pay the tax 2014 late compared to 10 February, even before 31 March. For us, even partially mountain municipalities should have been totally exempted. Hitting the owners of uncultivated land in hilly areas is a serious choice because it penalises those who maintain the territory, also for the prevention of hydrogeological risk. In short, with the agricultural IMU still vexations and an irresponsible chaos only to finance the 80 euros of Renzi, which passes to the collection requiring the mayors to put their hands in the pockets of the citizens: in this regard, the presence of the only representative of the Ministry of Economy and Finance and not that of agriculture is significant.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u34	Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u35	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). It is a bonus, that of the 80 euros, which still remains unfair, because, beyond the promises of Renza, it has not been given to pensioners with the minimum, cassintegrate, unemployed, self-employed and low-income and to the numerous single-income families. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u36	You should finish, Senator, because you're already three minutes past your time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u37	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Finally, Madam President, for these reasons, and more, Renzi must definitely go home. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u38	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u39	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 1749 addresses the issue of agricultural IMU: the damage is reduced by adopting a decree-law in which the deadline for paying the 2014 IMU has been extended to 10 February 2015 since 26 January. The urgency is to limit the damage compared to the application of a law on which the Governments of the unelected - Amato, Monti and Renzi - have returned several times, to tax the owners of agricultural land. I would like to express my disappointment at the infamous IMU agricultural decree, joining the protest that saw the participation of many local administrators, who considered it appropriate and sacrosanct to join all those farmers now exhausted by the government's declared indecision that, after having changed opinion countless times, in the end, opted for the suspension of sanctions until March 31 for the failure to pay the tax. It seems clear to me that, despite the Government's efforts, this is not enough to give decisive answers and certain solutions to all those entrepreneurs who continue to make their voices heard today, rebelling against the government's ill-advised choices. This tax is equivalent to a slow death of agriculture, their work and, consequently, their families for the whole category of farmers and farmers. The government should act in the interest of all the operators in this sector, so valuable to our economy. Agri-food in fact contributes 25 billion euros a year to the Italian Treasury and is a driving sector and a significant economic force, but the initiative of this Government risks to cripple and massacre it. The companies of our country must already bear an unsustainable fiscal and bureaucratic burden and the Government what does it do? It increases, imposing a new land tax on them, instead of offering, especially in years of crisis such as these, real and effective fiscal support to get out of the crisis faster. I would like to quote the words of a Sicilian farmer, who rightly points out that land tax amounts to a fee on a desk for an employee. Paradoxical, of course, but it explains the absurdity of the unjust tax. She starves the beast until she dies. Agricultural IMU is an unfair tax, which has a heavy impact on production costs and puts our companies out of the competition with foreign countries. The battle continues and my support will always go to all those entrepreneurs, true heroes of our country, who continue to fight, despite a distant government, enemy and unreliable. The government's choices are not enough and the Commission's backsliding is not enough to give these entrepreneurs a new breath. This tax must be abolished. The mockery of this decree lies in the fact that, once again, it is done for needs of cash balances, as well as the rules with which it was decided to tax the land were made with the obvious aim of creating tax revenues. It is enough to think, in fact, of what happens in the municipalities of Locri and Siderno, in Calabria, where the administrations, in order to repair financial disasters, are killing the farmers trying to cash on their shoulders by releasing a maximum rate of 10.6 percent. But has any of the legislators ever wondered what the difficulties the owners face and what the costs of keeping agricultural land are? And the difficulties increase if the land is hilly and if the property is fragmented into several plots. Moreover, the maintenance of a land in good conditions of cultivation contributes to avoiding the hydrogeological failure, resulting from abandonment and neglect, to which can bring this continuous desire for taxation that can be harmful. Instead of taxing landowners should give them a prize. Among other things, the decree also contains a "mountain" of sheets containing the data of the mountain, hill or plain municipalities, which are due compensation for the lack of income from agricultural IMU, as if it were a ministerial decree, i.e. an administrative act. However, there will be revenues of about 268 million, instead of 359 million in 2014, a small penalty discount for those who are guilty of dedicating themselves to the meritorious activity of the cultivation of the land. In this way we tax not only the agricultural land of the Italians, as if it were a treasure on which to burden an asset, but also the land owned by the farms, just as the IMU imposes on the machinery of the enterprises. In addition to income you tax the tools to produce this income. Legislative Decree No 504 of 1992 provided for exemption from the tax for agricultural land falling in mountain or hill areas to be valued. Again with the intervention of the Monti Government, contained in Decree-Law No. 16 of 2012, the land, allowed the irony, became a cow to milk, providing a revenue of 350 million euros, in a measure of a pure financial nature. Decree-Law No 185 of 2014 had postponed to 26 January the deadline, previously set at 16 December 2014, for the payment of the tax on agricultural land according to the new rules. However, the identification of land to be exempted or taxed has become arbitrary and this arbitrariness has been confirmed by the interministerial decree of 28 November 2014. In between there is a sentence of the TAR of Lazio that had accepted an appeal, presented by the ANCI, of four Regions, deciding a suspension of the tax.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u40	You should finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u41	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I'll ask you for a few more minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I can give you a minute. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). According to the interministerial decree the owners of the land under 280 meters should still pay the tax, for those between 281 and 600 meters would pay only the owners non farmers direct or professional agricultural entrepreneurs, the exemption would be only for the owners of land in municipalities beyond 600 meters. Reading the list, however, it is noted that the difference between totally mountainous, partially mountain and non-mountain soils has become a non-objective and almost arbitrary decision. Therefore, those who have land in a territory between 281 meters and 600 meters may have to pay the IMU if the municipality has not been exempted. But has anyone among those who have compiled the list ever tried to make a crop in a hilly or partially mountainous area? Obviously not, otherwise he would have realized that the harvest of a season sometimes does not compensate the costs for the cultivation of a season without harvest. We believe that this decree-law is completely wrong in the ratio and content, because it still confirms the taxation on agricultural land, like the previous legislative interventions cited and that it has the only merit of "reduce the damage" for some municipalities and for some citizens. Before I come to the conclusion, I would like to take a step back in our history. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I must invite you to conclude, Senator, because time is contingent. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I shall conclude, Mr President. The last 30 seconds and I'll finish. As I said, I would like to take a step back in our history to point out that the South, the wonderful South of our Italy, has always been tartassato and continues today, also thanks to the magnificent choices of the Renzi Government, to be tartassato and forgotten. The Government of the Two Sicilies had granted free use of civic uses (free use of land) to farmers without imposing taxes. This is for the benefit of production, with positive effects on the entire economy of the country. After the unity of Italy, however, the civic uses were abolished with the birth of the broad-floor, forcing the peasants to pay to the landowners the erorial tax. But that's another story. Returning to the present day - I start to conclude - this text needs to be changed, adopting rules that completely eliminate taxes on agricultural land, going to draw the funding from the huge waste that Renzi pretends not to see, but that are before the eyes of all Italians. I announce my vote against the conversion into law of this decree-law. Mr President, thank you for your time. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u42	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u43	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed to the conversion of Decree-Law No 4 of 24 January 2015 on urgent measures concerning the IMU exemption, which has intervened to put order in a matter which was characterised by deep application uncertainty. From the year of tax 2015, the exemption for agricultural IMU applies to agricultural and non-cultivated land located in municipalities classified as totally mountain, as well as in the list drawn up by ISTAT, in agricultural land, as well as in those not cultivated, owned and conducted by direct farmers professional agricultural entrepreneurs, as referred to in Legislative Decree No 99 of 2004, registered in the agricultural insurance, located in municipalities classified as partially mountain. This is a first positive fact to be noted. Thanks to the intervention, in the new scheme, in order to access the tax exemptions, reference is made to the new classification provided by ISTAT, which assigns the mountaineers according to several indicators. This is contrary to the interministerial decree of 28 November last year, which had taken into consideration only the altimetric parameter of the municipal house, with a highly contested choice that led to the definition of Municipality mountain all those with an altitude above 601 meters. These new criteria are more consistent with the need to ensure exemption to actually mountain realities and in line with the principles used for the application of old property taxation. In line with the aims of the legislative intervention, the exemption is granted to farmers who own and use agricultural land, allowing the extension of the benefit also to land granted free of charge, provided that the owner is the user and are both professional farmers and direct farmers. At this point, I would like to stress the speech made by the rapporteur, whom I thank for his work together with the President of the Commission and all those involved. In fact, in addition to the objective improvements achieved by the Government's measure, I stress a very useful and profitable parliamentary work. In this sense, I call on the Government to bear in mind the issue of rents and convenience, with regard to people of the same family and those who benefit from income, giving it a positive response. In order to avoid the involvement of third parties and to limit the benefit to the agricultural sector, it has been provided that the exemption is not applicable in the case of agricultural land owned by non-farmers. In this case, action is taken in a situation in which, in particular for the partially mountainous municipalities, a distortion occurs. In this respect, I would remind the rapporteur and colleagues in this House that they have tabled an amendment which seeks to correct this distortion. In fact, in the partially mountainous municipalities, the beneficiaries being those who are professional farmers and direct farmers, who do not always cultivate the land, are excluded a series of small owners who are not obliged to register in the agricultural pension management of the INPS because of the small size of their activity (being below the franchise of 7,000 euros), but who nevertheless have a meritorious function: they, in fact, carry out a cultivation activity of small funds whose products are destined to local markets or agricultural cooperatives and then constitute an important income integration. That is why I would like the amendment I have tabled in this respect to be taken seriously by the Government, since in this section of the Community we are going to favour owners of even important territorial extensions which, however, do not cultivate the fund and add the facilitation of the IMU to other facilities provided for in Community funds. Among the objectives pursued by the intervention is to make the tax levy fairer, and this is the most important aspect. Like any capital tax, the assumption of the IMU is in the possession of an asset the value of which can be realized with the sale. The tax base is the capitalized value that the owner can achieve, even in abstract, with alienation. This is the only way for the owner to get rid of the tax burden of an asset that doesn't hopefully produce an income for him that balances the weight of the tax. Today, due to the economic crisis and the depopulation of small mountain towns, many of the land in the mountainous areas of our territory is losing its value, if not even a reference market for their disposal. Hence the radical incompatibility of a capital tax with a de facto inalienability of agricultural land located in mountainous areas, against which the exemption from payment of the IMU is therefore not the result of a benevolent concession but the remedy to an always possible vice of constitutionality. It is good to remember that with the intervention implemented the audience of municipalities exempt from the payment of the tax has greatly expanded compared to the provisions of the interministerial decree of 28 November 2014. As the rapporteur also pointed out, the current IMU exemption is recognised at 3.546 municipalities, compared with 1,498 previously exempt municipalities, while the partially exempt municipalities reach 655 units. The intervention carried out is a valuable support to the agricultural sector, which, together with others, is experiencing a deep crisis. As already mentioned, it should be emphasized that agriculture plays an important role in our territory in terms of: the protection of the landscape and the production of quality combined with the landscape; the valorization of the territory, promoting tourism; the maintenance of the hydrogeological performance of the territory, today largely depleted due to the abandonment of the land. In the face of this role, agriculture is seeing an increasing reduction in margins of income, especially as a result of a reduction in demand, but also as a result of an increase in the tax burden on agricultural holdings. Among other factors it is good to remember the adverse weather conditions and also some geopolitical crises such as that of Russia, which has drastically affected our agricultural production. In this situation, the reduction of the levels of taxation for the agricultural sector is the only way to avoid further abandonment of land, especially at risk, such as mountain and partially mountain land. That is why I would once again ask Mr Zanetti to consider the amendment I have tabled on this subject, which I mentioned earlier. Finally, I would like to mention one more point: avoiding the depopulation of agricultural land is a way of preserving the typicalness, culture and tradition of our agricultural crops, characterized by an identity territorial structure and composed of family farms and people who often inherit small agricultural plots. I want to stress, as the rapporteur has done, the positive work carried out in the Commission, which has led to the solution of issues that were going on for the year 2014, and in particular some amendments, one of which concerns the disadvantaged hill, that is, an area included in the municipalities of the plain and therefore totally free of exemption: in this sense, with the exemption of EUR 200, a positive signal has been given. There is no doubt that the amendment on the smaller islands proposed by Mrs Orrù, which was adopted in the Commission and which is an important element, is also very positive, as is the rule on undisputable collective ownership of agro-silvo-pastoral land: this has also been a useful element of the work carried out in the Commission. I also agree with the rapporteur's comments on the other two points which have been highlighted (which I mentioned earlier) concerning the facilitations in the case of family transfers and the question of fully mountainous provinces, in order to resolve the problems of certain municipalities. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u44	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u45	Madam President, the IMU on agriculture is a labour tax. This is what it is: a tax on the work of those who actually break their back every day to give food to themselves and to us Italians. The farmer's job is very ancient and going to tax his land means taxing an instrument of work. I can already imagine that this government will tax even the hoes. Soon he will also tax his hoes, because in the end it is the same: the ground is no different from the instruments, the ground is an instrument. This is an attack on our farmers, who, in addition to fighting atmospheric hardships, now have to fight another enemy, such as Renzi's party and which is, forever, the PD. We want to tax agricultural land. But farmers do not pay enough, do they not already have a tax burden? Do they not pay VAT? Don't they pay the IRPEF? Well, now they have to pay another tax. Do you find that these people live at ease? Honestly, I have all the other news, which is certainly not comforting, not least because we know very well that farmers are facing another enemy, namely illegal imports of products from abroad. So, what do we do? Instead of going back to Europe, to say that the oranges of our farmers must be sold in Italy, in order not to have only oranges bought from Morocco, we also tax their instrument, that is, the land. I don't know why you want to do this, and I really can't imagine it. But unfortunately, being here, I realized that Renzi - like the others, for years now - does not have an industrial plan: there is no vision of the future. Yet Renzi is young, even if unfortunately he is old inside. Why? Because he's always been a politician. Let's be clear: he never worked or maybe he worked in the family and, you know, dad pats on the boy's shoulder and so on. There is no industrial plan, this is the serious problem of Italy. We need to establish strategic sectors: agriculture in the first place, tourism, art, research and crafts. We're killing our artisans, the mechanics. The symbol of the Italian Republic brings to the center a mechanical wheel: where has it gone, that Finmeccanica has now also sold the AnsaldoBreda? Just as strategic are our textile and manufacturing sectors. Actually, I don't understand. Madam President, we are already off to a bad start with this rule. There has been chaos and this is seen from the fact that the deadline for payment, scheduled for 26 January, is extended to 10 February; but we are now already beyond that date. How is that possible? Of course, a patch has been set, stating that the sanctions will apply on 31 March. But is this a way to legislate? Let's fix the deadline directly to March 31st and just don't make fun of us! Besides, why are you legalizing yourself? In fact, because it was necessary to allow the overcoming of criticalities deriving from the publication of the interministerial decree - therefore of various Ministries of the Renzi Government - of 28 November 2014, which determined the appeal of the aforementioned decree by the regional ANCI and numerous municipalities and the suspensive effect, arranged with various presidential decrees of the TAR of Lazio, second section. This makes us realize that we are really at the fair of about the same time! I'm really tired. When I was outside these palaces I didn't realize at all why rules were issued that bureaucratize and always make every fulfillment labile; now I understand it: because those who legislate have no idea what is outside. How do you go and put a tax on the farmer's land? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. PUGLIA (M5S). Yes, Madam President, I shall conclude. Having said that, we believe that the introduction of this tax must be absolutely blocked: this tax must be abolished! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruvolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u47	Madam President, once again I stress the absence of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy in the representation of the Government and this time I also have time to motivate my thinking. Unless the members of the government start from the assumption, wrong, that they are the ones who have the certainty of the following while those who intervene are here to speak, if the Minister (or his delegates were present), at least they would have listened and listening is a gift. Listening could have meant that on other occasions that will come - for example the so-called one thousand-pronged decree - some accommodation could be given to this misdemeanor of the decree-law establishing the agricultural IMU. We take note of that once again. Legislative Decree No. 504 of 1992 (in other words, the updates have started since 1952), has adopted criteria for then perhaps appropriate and fair. However, I wonder whether they are still in line with the current reality of the Italian agricultural world. In my view, I am not at all the same in the application of the tax and in the exemption for mountain municipalities which fall into less-favoured areas. Today there is another agriculture, there is another world that this Government and this majority absolutely cannot underestimate. Among my many amendments, which I hope to be able to explain and at least to be heard, there is one very clear and precise one, which is not marked either by populism or demagogy, aimed at providing for the total exemption for agricultural land, in whatever capacity it owns: direct farmers, main farmers, farm workers, owners. The reason is very simple: as other speakers have also said, agricultural land is an instrumental asset. For those who work as a mechanic, equipment is an instrumental asset and such is also the land for the farmer. I would also like to stress the fact that throughout Europe (except in France, but in any case for very small sums) no country applies the tax on agricultural land. In fact, Poland also applies it, because I have done a thorough study on this point. I hope someone will answer me on that. Then there is the problem of deadlines, as I have already pointed out in the debate on the suspensive issue. In the decree, the deadline for payment is 10 February and it is 25 February: the confusion really reigns supreme. I think we need an unwritten rule, a norm of common sense, because the conversion of this decree-law is really an iattura for Italian agriculture. On the deadlines, farmers have their breath suspended, because they do not know whether they have to pay or not, whether an extension has been envisaged in the Commission on the substance, but until the decree-law is converted, the deadline remains that of 10 February. You don't call this a mess? Doesn't it seem like you're dealing with such an important subject a little too lightly? Moreover, do landowners affected by natural disasters have to pay the tax? In these hours, in my territory, there are rivers that have produced truly unspeakable damage and farmers will find themselves, in front of the deadline of 10 February already passed, when this House will determine when they will have to pay, to have suffered immense damage on the one hand for the floods and for the disasters and on the other the additional damage of having to pay because otherwise - alas - Equitalia arrives, with the consequences that you well know. When a calamity occurs, the damage often does not concern a single year, a single season or a certain period of time, since it may happen that, following that calamity, crops are completely destroyed and killed for at least five years. Does the government want to give us an answer on these matters, on which I call you to responsibility? [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] We are not saying anything extraordinary and I invite you to reflect for a moment on the arguments that we are putting to your attention. I tell you more: stop on this decree, which is a real disaster against agriculture. Consider, let us all reflect together, if we want to: what model of agriculture does this Government imagine? There are announcements about the Expo and the importance of relaunching our agricultural products: but if producers, if farmers do not produce, what do we do to make the Expo? If you do not enable farmers to make a minimum profit from their work, but what quality are we talking about, what excellence? But Saint God, we are talking about obvious things, not things we are dreaming of: it is absolutely not so. The Minister Martina then - which I consider, regardless of the evaluations I will make now - cannot, with a press release, condemn the agreement that has been signed with the Mediterranean countries, with which we make available our technologies. It will certainly have acted well, but it cannot agree to an agreement between the European Union and Morocco or to an agreement for which those countries - I am highly democratic and I understand - will invade, as they have already done, our country of products that do not have any guarantee from the point of view of food security, in clear conflict with the needs and, above all, with the European rules. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do you want to go on like this? Is this a responsible way of doing agricultural policy? If this decree-law serves to make cash, as it will be, do so, but know that you are inflicting a fatal blow on Italian agriculture: other than excellence, this is the paradox of our agriculture.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u48	I invite you to conclude, Senator Ruvolo.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u49	RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). I have the permission of my group, Mr President, so if I take a few minutes from the time allocated to me, you can take them away from the speeches of my colleagues. PRESIDENT. - The debate is All right, as long as they allow the Presidency to do so. Anyway, tell me how many minutes you need. RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, I am about to conclude. We have tabled amendments which I think are very balanced and which go in one direction only: not to kill agriculture, but to make the tax system fair. Why - and I put this further question to the rapporteur and to the representatives of the Government - must a tax come from above and instead leave the decision on the taxation of agricultural land - assuming that it is right - to the municipalities or regions? The reason is very simple: if the Region or the Municipality want to invest on agriculture, in fact, they will make sure not to tax the capital goods and agricultural land, thus facilitating the path of a farmer who wants to invest. Why do you have to impose a tax, without knowing whether the land you hit is 50, 200, 3,000 meters above sea level, or in the plain? Let the municipalities decide that. Responsiblely, the municipalities will be able to play their part. Who are you guys? But what do you want to represent? You know nothing about this sector and I say it with knowledge of the cause; I say it because I am aware, because I know that world very well. So, do you really want to show attention? Pass the power of taxation to the Communes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, time is contingent, so in the absence of communication from your group, I have to take your word for it. RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). I am done, Madam President, thank you for your kindness and generosity. If this government cares about agriculture, think, stop, reorganize and re-launch a sector that is fundamental to our economy. If this is the case, my group and I will be firmly at the side of the government and its majority in supporting a different agriculture in modern times. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u50	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u51	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I could also use just one minute to speak on this measure: Renzi at home, you are absolutely out of the question of our citizens, who every day find themselves fighting with these difficulties and with this economy that is choking them. On the other hand, I think that it is right to continue the intervention and explain the positions and the work carried out by our Group in the examination of the measure on agricultural IMU for hilly and hilly land: yet another harassment, yet another tax, a new difficulty for taxpayers and municipalities. After a year certainly seen to pass by blows of confidence and with speeches that have gone in the opposite direction, we are also here today to deal with yet another measure that to define an infinite mess that will create total uncertainty would, in my opinion, still use a gratifying expression for what is absolutely - let me say, Mr President - a crap. In the end, turning and turning, trying to decree and decree, change the terms and deadlines, modify, remedy the mess, the 80 euro brand that Renzi imposed last spring for his election campaign someone has to pay for it. It is not paid by those who have received it, who have found 80 euros in the envelope (which, in the end, often, also had to pay back with tax balances); it is not paid by those who, however, have an activity, a job, a salary, but it is paid by agriculture in this case. Renzi has found another fertile land - and I think the expression is appropriate - to be able to usurp resources. I say usurp because we talk about agriculture, about the will to maintain the territories and the garrisons, about so many beautiful things, so many beautiful words, but then we proceed in the opposite direction. We even carry on agriculture to "zero kilometers," typical Italian products, quality: all nice words, but the substance is that we taxi, we kill another and we find a resource in a sector that doesn't matter to the government what it produces or what induced it generates on the territory, also in terms of control and management of the territory. The important thing is to find the 80 euros and we find them, first, with a measure in which the parameter to tax the territories is that of the municipal seat. An absurd thing: maybe Renzi should take a tour of the mountain and hill areas to understand that the town hall is usually not on the cucuzzolo of the mountain, but is in an accessible position and suitable at least to provide services to the citizens. As a former mayor, maybe you should remember where your city hall was. On the other hand, he never lived in the mountains, so he can't understand it. As a result, there is this absurd iniquity in moving a parameter of taxation on territories which, on the other hand, are difficult to maintain, to guard, to cultivate and to work. The first battle that we immediately waged was that against the iniquity that was born on the inequality in the choice of the parameter to identify these soils. A clearly improved reformulation has therefore been presented. But that's not enough for us. The North League, from the beginning, has opposed this unfair measure, we repeat, which generates many doubts and uncertainties, and has asked to return - and our amendment has been punctually prepared for this purpose - to the law before decree-law no. 66 of 2014. We want to return to the old IMU exemption rule on these land to ensure fairness, and also certainty, to those who found themselves at the end of the year, at the end of 2014, to face taxes that were not expected and for which, perhaps, no resources had been set aside, having to use them for other taxes that anyway had to be paid. The municipalities and the mayors, in fact, found themselves with some holes in the budget and therefore with the impossibility to close the budgets because in December, usually (at least in normal families) the good father of the family, as it is used to say, has already managed the previous year and has already possibly made the choices on which to work. All this, however, doesn't matter to this government, it doesn't care. In the new legislation, moreover, we refer to an ISTAT list dated 1952 that therefore has absolutely no real and correct overview of the territories, of the mountain and hilly areas, nor of the geological and hydrogeological change of our territory that unfortunately is subject to continuous changes due not only to the variation of the crops but also to the alluvial and hydrogeological events that Italy is constantly suffering because of the lack of planning, control and maintenance of the territory. Of course, that doesn't make it any easier. Having taxed agricultural land again, particularly in mountain areas (we managed, then, with this new list, to safeguard some of them), certainly does not constitute an incentive to live in these areas, to allow to live in these areas, because I believe that there is still some attachment, but it is the only thing that remains to citizens who live a thousand problems, who are literally besieged by difficulties not only meteorological but also and first of all imposed by the Government. Agriculture, in the last year (we heard it also in the hearings), has paid a huge price: about a billion extra taxes (these are the figures that farmers have brought us to the audition) of which perhaps no one has noticed. However, some areas continue to be guarded and there are activities where you still try to produce and work, among other things by offering quality products and ensuring excellence to the country. Here too, however, the Renzi Government, and Renzi in particular, this may not be of interest. I also agree, with all respect for those who represent the Government at the moment, that the Minister of Agriculture should have been present, because in particular, beyond taxation and taxation, this measure concerns an important sector, on which, among other things, a further slogan has also been coined: let us give jobs to young people, let us give opportunities to young people, let us make it possible to create new companies and businesses in the agriculture sector. If this is the first step, gentlemen, you are far from the goal. This does not mean helping young people find a new role, a renewed will to create, to engage, to engage resources, life, future if then, as soon as these appear, you find a way to tax that very sector. I repeat: we are quite distant, indeed, you are quite distant because we do not put ourselves on your side but, indeed, we oppose these choices. Let's think about mountain areas: first taxed, then not taxed, first exempt, then not exempt, with subjects who paid and so that they did not. The measure before us is not even considered the possibility of obtaining refunds: on this point the Commission has worked to try to smooth out all these shortcomings, the continuous change of dates, the uncertainty for the taxpayer, the deadlines not honoured but certainly not by the will of the taxpayer. For the latter problem, of course, we have asked - and this request has also been accepted by the Commission - that there should be no sanctions for non-payment in due course, because it was certainly not the will of the citizen or farmer not to pay, but the possible delay should have been attributed to these uncertainties. All these difficulties concern the specific powers of the areas that should be paid or not. Let us think of a particular case on which I have tabled an amendment which I hoped would be accepted in view of the typology, the uniqueness and the importance of the proposal. The so-called Delrio law has recognized us some provinces as entirely mountain. The province where I live, Belluno, has a single municipality not mountain, or rather partially mountain (so it is an incredible iniquity), but the government on the issue simply accepted an agenda. This is an obvious disparity, an iniquity, because in this municipality you will find yourself having to pay the IMU; but not only: it will find itself discriminated, as partially mountain, in an area defined totally mountain. This is the ability to meet in a concrete and effective way objective needs, evident and strongly brought by us that live the territories with much difficulty, but that we still take care of them. However, government interventions in support of agriculture over the last period have only been proclamations. We believe that the government has used agriculture as a good ATM, an area where we can be sure that we can continually introduce new tax burdens. As we have already done in presenting the question for a preliminary ruling, we hope that, on the part of our colleagues and those who must defend the territories, there will be a willingness to ensure that this measure is not voted on and that we will return to a situation which at least protected farmers and gave them a breath. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u52	Collegi, is present in the Hall to attend our work a representation of students and teachers of the Institute including-school media "Milani" of Caivano, in the province of Naples. I salute them on behalf of the House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u53	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u54	Mr President, today we are talking about a single municipal tax. For a change, yet another tax to the detriment of citizens. The IMU is a tax that mortifies and degrades the agricultural sector, farmers and their work, penalising those territories that very often start already disadvantaged. But they are the same territories that would guarantee Italy as a whole to be a flagship and to give the possibility to the Italians to eat healthy food. It is an imposition, this, contrary to every common norm of rationality and common sense - this we have always said - which serves above all, according to the irrational criteria of this Government, to cash out, but which, in reality, has the objective of still twisting the neck of agricultural enterprises. To this must of course be added the absurd ballet of measures taken by the Government on the subject. Within ten months (and I say ten) Renzi tries to plug his holes and recover the money he has previously bestowed (you don't know who and you don't know how). I mean, a terrible mess like 80 euros. But Renzi did not have any clear ideas about the situation of the Italian agricultural sector. In order to implement the agricultural IMU, he had to issue even three different decree-laws (No. 66 of 2014, No. 185 of 2014 and No. 4 of 2015) and an interministerial decree of 28 November 2014; and less bad that he announces on television, on the tweets and on all the channels at his disposal that are simplifying and sburocratizing. No way! In fact, it's worse than before. This is a cross of rules issued and then denied, criteria for determining the amounts written and then deleted within a few months, which has created great difficulties for taxpayers, municipalities and consultants in the sector, who knew nothing more than fish catch. It's a big mess. This is yet another revelation of the real face of the executive: a sort of normative Frankenstein that sows confusion and uncertainties. The very little attention that the Government has devoted to a very sensitive issue for Italian farmers is clearly highlighted by the fact that each of these measures had application criteria that were subject to modification by the next one. What does that mean? I made a mistake, and now I'm gonna put a patch on it. Without realizing, however, that every patch placed in the hole, became an increasingly large hole. As if that were not enough, the 'Government of simplification', as it is proclaimed, took almost a year to invent this absurd tax. With this decree-law it gave, initially, little more than two weeks from its issue (including holidays and non-working days) to: verify the debenza of the agricultural IMU according to the new criteria; frame the new provisions with the puzzle of the old ones; go to the accountant or the professional of the sector; calculate the tax and pay it. Not everyone knows that at the moment there are two appeals to the TAR concerning the regularity of this tax: the judgment of one of the two is scheduled for 28 February and it must not be excluded that the administrative courts can take a stand in favour of a total cancellation of the agricultural IMU. For this reason, coordination between the powers of the State would be appropriate, precisely in order to avoid that the mistakes already made become real disasters for the future. As with other decrees, however, the real play of media prestige lies in the coverage: while it is declaring to the four winds that it has provided exemptions, the government casually forgets to emphasize that the resources to cover the agricultural exemption have been taken from the agricultural sector (no, because this is not appropriate: we omit). Entering specifically, with paragraph 1 of Article 2 of the decree-law in question, to cover the IMU exemption, the tax provisions recently issued in favour of the agricultural sector for the determination of the value of net production are repealed. We are talking, that is, about the application to 50% of the deductions for the purposes of IRAP, currently applicable to permanent workers, also to seasonal workers in agriculture who work at least 150 days a year. These are facilities which, among other things, have never been applied, since their effectiveness was subject to a never received prior authorisation from the European Commission. So this is the Government of the "mai" and "mai" and "mai" and "mai": what is this Government? [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]] To shed light on this situation and awaken the Dicasteries concerned, last January 20 I tabled a motion with the aim of committing the Government to exempt all agricultural land from the payment of the IMU. In that motion there was a request for particular attention to Gargano and the other territories recently flooded. In addition, for the Gargano, on October 22, 2014 I obtained the discussion of a motion at my first signature, following which the Government undertook to put five of the seven points presented in black and white. Mr President, I would ask you to be able to hand over the text to the remaining part, so that it is annexed to the report so that it can be more explanatory.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u55	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u56	WOMAN (M5S). Having reached the crucial point, Mr President, I would also ask you to give me a few more seconds. In the adoption of the Stability Act, we did the same by tabling amendments aimed at resolving this problem. In the meantime, however, nothing has happened: the government continues to vex farmers, taking money from their pockets as they try to move on, and do dirty things, of which this is yet another. Thus, the errors of the rulers fall upon the citizens, but we are fed up with them, as well as with the umpteenth games: I'll give you the 80 euros, but I'll take it back, but in the meantime I'm going on TV to tell you that I've given it to you. No, you gave me yet another scumbag, which I will have to solve for the umpteenth time, finding the system to move on. Now, this is an incitement to delinquere by the government and to abandon their lands. Instead, we respond to the Government that Italians must not abandon their lands, but cultivate them and see their rights recognized. Italians must continue to raise their heads, without submitting to the cravings of a little boy who gets up in the morning and establishes first white, then black, then grey. Renzi must understand what he wants from life: when will he grow up? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u57	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scoma. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u58	Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, for the umpteenth time this Government has recourse to a decree-law and a decree of urgency, although it has been redempted several times by the Head of State, in favour of a correct, precise and timely parliamentary path of the laws. There are still two branches of Parliament, but sometimes we forget about it. The measure for us presents many, perhaps too many, critical profiles. The decree-law would like to modify the system of municipal tax own on agricultural land, previously laid down by Decree-Law No. 16 of 2012 and subsequent amendments, but farmers and farmers of all Italy protest rightly in all squares against what in fact has only one name: patrimony on agricultural possessions. The new tax only increases the already so many difficulties of the sector, a sector too often in crisis and in crisis for a long time. We know that the new tax applies to all the buildings that are used to carry out agricultural activity. The government has tried to review the parameters and, probably, also the opportunities to charge the tax with less increase but the new tax remains. Small changes certainly do not change the substance. The levy is essentially a further attack on farmers. The impertinent government continues to be a merchant's ear. The whole category is alarmed; the issue is essential; the issue is urgent for the country's economy, a country that has one of its best excellences in agriculture. Several times in the Commission and with great patience - I am of course referring to the members of the Government who have succeeded in the Commission several times - we have tried to change its parameters, to rebalance a bill that seems confused, wrong, but the Government has always been too often deaf. The matter is of significant drama for the entire country. There is a great and clear disparity of treatment in the measure in question. The matter has been treated with unscrupulousness by the Government that, with incompetence, has decided to vex the farmers, with consequent collapse of the real estate and agricultural market and not only, affecting the future balances of the sector. We are for the total exemption from the agricultural IMU. We believe that the Presidency could probably proceed with the assignment of the decree-law to the Agriculture Commission and not just to the Budget Commission. We also believe that the provisions we are talking about create discrimination and create unfair competition. The rules contained in the decree-law, in addition to legitimizing the profiles of unconstitutionality, cannot even be shared in the substance. For these reasons, of course, we are and are absolutely against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u59	Senator Orrù is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u60	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today we are dealing with the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 4 of 24 January 2015 on urgent measures concerning the IMU exemption, which had a problematic and contrasted genesis and process. I would like to begin my speech by reminding you that the single municipal tax (IMU) was initially introduced by the Berlusconi Government with Legislative Decree No 23 of 14 March 2011 for buildings other than the main house. Subsequently, the Monti Government, due to urgent reasons for the growth, fairness and consolidation of public accounts (manovra salva Italy), had extended the tax also to the main houses and agricultural land, making it effective experimentally starting from 2012 and then bringing it to regime since 2015. On November 28, 2014, the Government issued the decree in which the exemption for municipalities and agricultural land referred only and exclusively to the altimetric criterion of the municipal residence to delimit the area of discomfort of agricultural activity in the area between the plain and the mountain. In view of that decree, which required payment of the tax by 16 December following, many municipalities used the TAR to request the suspension of the payment of the tax, having changed the new payment parameters with an excessively short deadline (16 December precisely). The right reverence of the Municipalities led the colleagues of the Democratic Party of the Agriculture Commission, to which many of us have added, to submit a question, first, and then to address a letter to the President of the Council and the Ministers concerned, asking to suspend for 2014 the application of the altimetric criterion linked only to the location of the municipal residence and to set, instead, from 2015, a measure inspired by truly reformative logics and objective criteria. The Government, understanding the reasons that had led to demand the redefinition of the criteria and the extension of the payment terms, last 24 January issued the decree-law today under discussion, which redefines the parameters of exemption from the IMU for mountain land. In fact, in order to refer only to Article 1 of the decree-law in question, it provides that, from the year 2015, the exemption from the municipal own tax (IMU) provided for in paragraph 1 (h) of Article 7 of Legislative Decree 30 December 1992, No 504, applies to agricultural land, as well as to those uncultivated located in the municipalities classified totally mountain, referred to in the list of Italian Municipalities prepared by ISTAT; to agricultural land, as well as to those uncultivated owned and conducted by direct farmers and professional agricultural entrepreneurs, registered in the agricultural insurance, located in the municipalities classified partially mountain mentioned in the aforementioned list ISTAT. It should be recalled that Article 7 (1) (h) of Legislative Decree No. 504 of 1992, in the matter of ICI, provided for the exemption for agricultural land falling in mountain and hill areas identified by Article 15 of Law No. 984 of 27 December 1977. In order to identify the list of exempt land it was essential to refer to the list annexed to Circular No 9 of 14 June 1993. With this decree-law a great step forward has been taken compared to the decree of November, adding to the 1,400 Municipalities exempt other 2,000 Municipalities. It is of all evidence, therefore, that the issue, as evidenced by the entire agricultural sector of the Country and by the municipalities most directly concerned, has a national character, with significant and different repercussions on the individual territories and of course on each Region. Paradoxically, on this important issue, applying the current criteria, there are territories which are recognized as the total exemption for height, although they do not have substantially, among the primary activities, the agricultural sector, and territories in which the agricultural sector represents a fundamental economic reality and which, precisely because of the current criteria and obsolete tables, are considerably penalized. It is of crystal clear evidence that priority is and must be given to the protection of the real operators in the sector, i.e. those who derive their first livelihood from this activity, as well as farmers who give jobs. The Government has demonstrated and has understood the need to revise the criteria provided for in the decree of November 2014, however the measure currently under discussion would need further correction that has been tried to make in the Commission finances. An excellent work has been carried out by the Commission and the rapporteur, who have drawn up amendments which summarize some of the issues and which aim not to apply sanctions or interest in case of late payment of tax due for 2014 to those who were to pay by the date of 31 March 2015 (essentially authorising the slippage of payment); to reimburse those municipalities that paid under the decree of November 2014, but which were exempted by the last measure of the Government; to set up, at the MEF, a compensatory fund in favour of the municipalities that recorded less revenue than the one anticipated and to recognize a sort of relief of 200 euros to the previously exempt hilly territories, demonstrating further attention. Even the individual amendments tabled, including some of them at my first signature, all aim to provide for criteria of fairness and proportionality for the municipalities that will be able to enjoy total or partial exemptions and the owners of agricultural land falling there, also with particular reference to the municipalities belonging to the smaller islands, which, in the mapping made by the Department of Development and Territorial Cohesion on the internal areas, are catalogued as outermost internal areas. As I said, we must, however, aim at the highest level in terms of fairness. It is a productive sector that needs attention, like and more than others. It is an area in which independent variables related to production - including weather conditions - make it impossible to fully guess what the profits will be and if there will be. It would be essential and, therefore, desirable to be able to apply criteria that allow even partial concessions to all farmers, including those operating on the plains, providing for a minimum and/or partial exemption for them. It should also be borne in mind that during 2014 the primary agricultural sector, at national level, was also faced with a number of tax increases. If this is true at national level, it is so much more true for my region. Allow me now to recall my territory. The agricultural sector of Sicily, a region which, I recall, with regard to the agricultural sector is considered objective 1 by the European Union, has suffered in the course of 2014 the consequences of an unfavourable climate trend, which has led to the emergence of some plant diseases with devastating effects. Mr President, if you will allow me to turn over part of my speech so that it is annexed to the report and I shall conclude. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. ORRU' (PD). I repeat, therefore, that the Government must be granted the merit of having tried, with the draft law under discussion, to correct and improve what was planned by the Decree-Law of November last year on the identification of the mere altimetric criterion in order to establish the exemption or not from the payment of the IMU to be applied to the municipalities and to have - in the course of the examination in the Commission - demonstrated sensitivity that led to the adoption of improved amending proposals of which I have already said. However, it is clear that there is still much to be done and refined, broadening the overall logic that redefines really and globally, through those criteria of fairness and proportionality, of which I spoke before, the typicalities of the territories in order to achieve for 2016 a finally updated mapping of the ISTAT tables, that allows without any possibility of confusion or litigation to identify the total and partial exemptions to be applied to all the municipalities and agricultural land of the country for which the conditions apply. [[Applause from Senator Mirabelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u61	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u62	Mr President, I am speaking only a few minutes to add something to what my colleagues have already said, certainly more precisely, in order to underline the approximate and confusing nature of this measure. First of all, I believe that the approach used by the Government to deal with this sensitive matter is certainly not to be attributed to the best systems with which to touch private property. I'll explain. We know that in our contemporary Western society the instrument that by definition limits the use of private property is that of urbanism and its derivatives. As a result of this democratically expressed consideration, it is clear that the citizen often sees this limitation as vexation when he intervenes both to modify the urbanist instruments and its derivatives. It is therefore necessary to use the method applied in good local administrations, in which when you put your hand to the property you do it with a certain ratio and with certain points of reference, which this Government has not done. In fact, absolutely the opposite has happened and we have seen it in recent weeks. In fact, if the Renzi Government really wanted to deal with this issue decisively, firmly and decisively, it would have to start from the base, from the tools to be used. In our country, in many realities, almost in totality, we have a situation of the devastating land registry, unique in Europe. Therefore, in order to be able to put in place what you want to do perhaps it would be appropriate to speak seriously about land recomposition in order to be able to give that added value that today in our country is totally missing. Mr. Undersecretary, I remind you that we are going to pay the IMU on land that no longer exists. In fact, in certain areas of the country, on the auctions towards the Po, in the valley floor areas, the land registry dates back to "Cecco Beppe." Mr Undersecretary, if I had the opportunity to use it as a rebar, by using a theodolite I would show you that by measuring the parcels, which we fragmented in a unique way in Europe, some land no longer exists. The course of the rivers has changed over the last 150 years: there are lands that do not even exist anymore and even on such land we will certainly go to charge this hateful tax, which we want to impose. I do not go into the issues relating to the areas affected by hydrogeological failure and major problems. Over the years there have also been planning of the territory which in fact bind and make it particularly difficult to put hand on issues relating to agricultural land. I am referring, for example, to the hydrogeological plans (PAI), which in fact limit and bind predominantly the use of private property. This is done democratically, because these instruments are subject to the vote of the Regional and Provincial Councils, but in any case they undermine the value of these land, with major problems, which in this case have not been taken into account at all. I am referring to the fact that in some agricultural areas there is a need for activities, which the hydrogeological plans require to relocate, even if this is in fact not possible. What are we going to do about these cases? There will be a big problem and I can mention dozens and dozens, if not hundreds of examples, to understand what criticalities we will face on the territory, as far as these areas are concerned. What I would like to stress is precisely the error, the mistake in the approach used by the Government on such an important measure and issue. At the beginning of my speech I highlighted how fundamental it is, when it comes to planning the territory, to have the sensitivity to understand that the use of private property in all its complements is limited by the urbanist tools and that the approach put in place by good administrators is certainly the ideal one. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. But you have used another approach, that is, the one that was used in the mid-1980s, so by opening an urbanist instrument or a regulatory plan you had the exact map of how the votes of the ruling majority were distributed. This is your mental, archaic and old-fashioned approach in the planning of the country and the territory: the new one you wanted to put on the field, is not new. You are old, very old from this point of view and you are devastating the territory in its component and its most important meaning, which is that of the management of the territory itself. You're like the old mayors of the past, who made them cooked and raw. Go forward on this furrow, for you are doing well: come on! [[Applause from Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u63	Senator Mauro Giovanni is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking at a stage in the debate in which the many aspects of illegality, including constitutionality, of this legislation relating to agricultural IMU have already been distorted. I quote one for all: the fact of anchoring a tax not to profitability, but to ownership, regardless of the ability to produce income, goes against the progressiveness of taxation, which is provided for in our Constitutional Charter. However, I do not want to go into the many things that have gone astray, which have clearly led to the indignation of the opposition forces in this branch of Parliament and which many embarrassed interventions have aroused from those who support the Government and are part of the majority of this House. I have not been able to hear from anyone any arguments in defense of a measure that is profoundly and substantially unfair. What interested the government was to transpose these damned 350 million euros, which must be pinned to our farmers. What is being carried out today, dear friends, is not only a maneuver that serves to make square the disassembled accounts of the Renzi Government, today is proposing a profound cultural modification of our country. Today we intervene on a belt of our production and on producers that are also garrison to protect the national territory. Today, by imposing a tax on land regardless of their ability to produce income, we are telling millions of small farmers that they must no longer be able to make it, that they must give up their handkerchief of land, their small property. For the benefit of what? Of that mechanism that is spreading to other parts of the planet, which is the concentration of land ownership. Behind this economic maneuver there is a philosophy of government that we oppose with all our strength: the agricultural property that returns to the broad ground, the large groups that buy the small properties. We have made our country rich thanks to the work of many small and medium-sized farms that have not only been an environmental garrison in our territory, since only the small can take care of the aspects considered marginal by the great production, but have also constituted a garrison for the safety of many country territories. Well, when we have finally broken this economic belt of our agriculture, who will you have sacked? Who did you play the game with? Senator Orrù of the Democratic Party, who is Sicilian, was soon satisfied that 2,000 more municipalities would be exempted. What are we talking about? These are people who do not know and for which you could really write a book called "Agriculture, this unknown". You could write treatises of unknown national agriculture: do you know how many municipalities will have the exemption in Sicily where Senator Orrù is elected? Perhaps about twenty and in the province of Messina, which among the nine Sicilian Provinces is the one that has the least production capacity of agricultural income by vocation, by history and by morphology of the places. But this did not convince Senator Orrù to talk about the iniquity of a tax that hits right where there is a marginal profitability of the sector, a tax so unjust that it exempts the parasitic incomes of agriculture and aggravates the productive ones according to a crazy philosophy. I want to devote these few minutes to the full dullness, the absence of Mr Martina in this Chamber, which is shameful. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Fattori. Comments of Senator Albano]] Minister Martina must resign, when he fails to play his role within the Government and fails to participate in a debate that mainly concerns his sector. Because, as in the days of Verre, when ancient Rome sent this man to Sicily to collect as much taxes as possible regardless of the interest for that island, now there is a Roman government that is even more blind than that of two thousand years ago, which tries to draw only short-sighted money from Sicilian and southern agriculture, forgetting that this is even the year of the World Expo. This is the year in which our Prime Minister says that world agriculture will have the spotlight on Italian agriculture, which will have a leading role for the whole world in Milan and we, this year, will welcome farmers and representatives of governments all over the world, to talk about agriculture and food, having introduced a hateful harp, not so much for the quantity, but for the quality of the intervention and for the absurd, stupid and antihistorical philosophy that it hides. Our Italy on agriculture has always based not only its own economy, but also its own social structure, which is now being undermined. This philosophy of yours is really harmful and must really be fought with all our strength. The absence of the Minister, however, leaves me absolutely perplexed, because it is a sign of over-archism and absolute inability to exercise their respective roles, or - even worse - it means that other interests are being used, which are certainly not those of Italian farmers, nor certainly those of Italy. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI) and LN-Aut and Senator Amidei]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u65	Senator Amidei is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u66	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, today's speeches have revealed all the aspects that may represent limitations in this Decree-Law on the Agricultural IMU. Today we could say that the Decree-Law on the Agricultural IMU leaves an unbreakable void, because they have not been able to grasp the main aspects of Italian agriculture, which take into account what the farmer does and what agriculture consists of, which is not just an activity, in the specific case a good to tax. What has not been understood above all, however, is the role of farmers. Italian farmers are to be taken as an example, because they still do agriculture in a situation where the average farm fabric is among the lowest in Europe, and this aspect has not been taken into account. Agriculture, however, is of great quality, with an extremely small area. Basically, however, no account has been taken, in taxation, of the criterion that, in fact, agricultural land should not be taxed, because the role of the farmer is also a role of maintaining the environment in which we live, it is a role that cannot be compared with other activities that in some way benefit from the soil for their development. In this case, however, there is a fundamental role that is to maintain our environment. The fundamental problem with the taxation criterion is that there has been a very worrying discrimination. In this, I would almost like to see an attenuating for those who wanted to foresee a taxation in this decree-law, which is basically given by ignorance, in the sense that the fundamental principles on which to rely for the evaluation of a good have not been taken into account. As we know, among the principles of rural eximum there is what makes a good worth, in a consolidated formula, but in this case this principle has not really been considered. The only assessment that has been made - which, for goodness sake, is correct - was to go and identify the aspects related to the altitude, but it is as if we wanted to tax people according to their height and it really seems a very silly thing to me. The difficulties exist both for those who work at altitudes of a certain level, and for those who work below sea level, as in some very large areas of the Po Valley, where there are marginal areas, areas considered disadvantaged and where the income, although below sea level, is much lower than in other realities of many hundreds of meters above sea level. It is an unequal treatment that does not really justify, as well as they find no justification - allow me - those poor 200 euros that have been given as bonuses, which solve absolutely nothing. We are therefore opposed to the same sustainable development, which is referred to by the European Community and which has been dealt with through various laws, as a fundamental principle also linked to aid for those who want to make agriculture. Basically what is being discussed is a decree-law to be totally rejected, a decree that shows that once again we do not take into account the value of agriculture, the farmers and what it represents for Italy who still does this ancient profession. I therefore call on Mr Martina, who is not here today - and I join his colleagues who blamed him for his absence, which on this occasion had to be avoided - to reflect on this: agricultural IMU is to be removed, not only with regard to land at different altitudes, but throughout the national territory. In any case, I hope that at least the amendment which, unlike the one envisaged, shows the need to take full account of disadvantaged areas will be accepted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u67	Mr President, while the Government so wisely dedicates the wonders of Expo, also as a revival of Italian agriculture, the long hand of politics comes directly into the pockets of farmers with this measure on the IMU for agricultural land. The stalemate on farmers is wrong and critical, both in the method and in the substance. As for the merit, in particular, the IMU decree of 28 November 2014, which with this decree-law is sought to patch up and mend, served in fact to find the 350 million euros for the IRPEF bonus, the famous 80 euros of the electoral campaign for the Europeans of Matteo Renzi, which the Government has actually already spent. Here, therefore, we start from the need not to give a service, as it should be when we think of a tax, but to find money and, according to it, we identify the criteria for classifying the land, distinguishing between the mountainous ones, partially mountain and flat, for the purposes of the application of the IMU. To find a cover we started, therefore, from a decree-law that was absolutely born badly and ended then even worse with the decree-law that we are discussing today. In the November decree the classification had a logic and was based on the altitude of the municipal house: below 200 meters the land was flat; between 200 and 600 partially mountain and above 600 mountain. Of course, the geography of the territory does not always correspond to that of the municipal house, so the problems of the Cinque Terre and the Amalfi Coast were created, where the agricultural land was located in totally different places and, therefore, poor compared to the municipal house. The old decree passed from 3,524 exempt municipalities to 1,498, with a huge bang, therefore, for many citizens, for millions of farmers who struggle to move forward. Now there is total exemption for 3,456 municipalities and partial exemption for 655. I would like to point out that exemptions from the existing situation have not increased, nor have they decreased. Therefore with this decree-law are less the municipalities exempt from the pre-existing situation to the decree of 24 November 2014. How have the new ISTAT tables been drawn up? I tried to figure it out, and I referred to my territory. I, President, come from the Castelli Romani: every morning I take the car and constantly arrive in Rome downhill; every evening I return to the Castelli Romani and constantly go uphill. Now, Rome, with its altitude of 20 meters above sea level, starting from Piazza del Popolo (13 meters), up to the heights of Monte Mario, a beautiful neighborhood where potatoes are not grown (120 meters), is a partially mountainous municipality. The Roman Castles, on the other hand, that were previously exempt as disadvantaged territories, range from the non-mountain of Ariccia (412 meters) even to the non-mountain of Nemi, which is a very high town, up to 615 meters. Thankfully received we have that the Municipality of Rocca Priora, which is very high as it reaches 768 meters, is partially mountainous. There are, instead, two municipalities to the Roman Castles which are considered mountain, which are Monte Porzio Catone and Colonna. Monte Porzio Catone - don't be fooled - is low, having an average altitude of 451 meters, and Column of 303 meters. And what will these municipalities have so important to be classified high mountain? I'm Senator Astorre's famous manor. This is why the mapping of the classification between "mountain" and "non-mountain" at the Roman Castles is a little peculiar. I imagine the officials of the Ministry - poor people - intent on superimposing the altimetric maps of the various territories with those of the local potentates, to try to create what in this table is a marchettara altimetric map. I would really like the Minister to take responsibility for visiting these inconsistencies: Rome is not on the hill, while the Roman Castles are. Don't write geography books: you don't even know how to write the decrees-laws, let alone if you have to write the geography books. Now, with the agricultural IMU, the reduction of the reductions on fuel, the free trade agreements style capestro (those that have cited here many senators, like the EU-Morocco agreement, the TTIP), the made in Italy is sinked and the young people no longer approach agriculture. We are for the total abolition of this unfair tax, because it does not correspond to any service, but it is a trade mark for the Government. The Prime Minister should pay for election campaigns with the money he earns personally, and not with those of farmers who break their backs. Our lands are worth much more than Matteo Renzi's 80 euro campaign. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u68	He's enlisted to speak Senator Companione. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u69	Mr President, we did not agree with anything about this measure. We have not shared the aims, because we consider it absolutely unfair to rake 350 million euros to the detriment of agriculture and land, taxing - as has been said - a working tool. The instrument of gain, an instrumental asset, has been substantially taxed. We did not agree with the criteria for setting the exemption. We ask ourselves what is the point of referring - as has been widely said in this House by so many speeches of absolute common sense which, apparently, does not live or have the same presence in government representatives - to this classification which distinguishes the municipalities in mountain or semi-mountain depending on whether or not the town hall is located at 600 metres in height. It really seems ridiculous, indeed grotesque, if we think about the many situations of inequality that this criterion causes among the different citizens. And we will be able to give a thousand examples, but someone has just been made by the previous colleague. We do not share the time that the government has chosen to introduce this new imposition. It is as if the Government were totally unaware or indifferent to what is happening today in Italian agriculture. And the fact that the Minister or his representatives are missing today in this House says a lot about the sense of love and attention for our agriculture, for this part of our economy, of which we fill our mouths so much in conferences, calling it a fundamental part, the pride of Italy and so on. We say this in the conferences, we will say it at the Expo, but then in the Chamber, where we discuss these issues, the Government is not present. And in its essence we have the demonstration, perhaps, also of ignorance about the sector, ignorance of what is happening today in our country in the sectors of agriculture and animal husbandry, especially in the South of Italy where the conditions of agriculture are now exhausted. It was not enough, in fact, in the years ago, to massacre our farmers, allowing - for example - the indiscriminate entry of oranges from Morocco and, in general, products from third countries, very often of low quality and not always with guarantee of food safety. It was not enough to give up the protection of our producers openly, subject to unfair competition from these countries. While we produce food excellence, in fact, what does the government do basically? Tax the above-mentioned food excellences instead of protecting them. And this is really a paradox, a crazy thing. By the way, we tax them with a tax not only ethically unfair for everything we have said, but also strategically wrong, absolutely and strategically wrong. We pride ourselves on the fact that our agriculture is extraordinary thanks to the small farmers who have managed to maintain over time the extraordinary biodiversity that is our pride, our strength. The strength of our agricultural economy lies in our biodiversity and, therefore, in the fact that our good farmers have favoured, through the millennia, high quality production niches. When we, with this strategy, kill the small property, damage small farms, what are we actually doing? What is our strategy? Is this probably what Mr Mauro was talking about just now? Maybe we want to do the dirty work for the big multinationals? Do we want to make our strength disappear in favour of the large company which, in the end, will have an interest not in high quality niche products, but in the biomass that they can burn to produce energy or other interests that will enrich the multinationals, but certainly not our farmers and our social fabric? Is that the strategy? I hope not. The problem is probably related to ignavia, superficiality and the need to find some money. Mr President, last Sunday, speaking with my fellow citizens, a farmer, a modest, very humble person, told me: Dear Senator, we denounce the mobsters because they ask businesses for lace, what should we do with this government asking farmers for lace? That's what I've been told. And he added that the difference is that while the mobsters burn your house down, the government will foreclose it, because it will end up like this. With this system, in fact, many citizens will become tax evaders, since they will not be able to pay taxes, failing to cover with their own income even the expenses for agricultural work. And when these citizens will no longer be able to pay their taxes and become evaders, we will also foreclose their homes. I think this is a shameful thing that we should think about. I therefore call on the Government to back down on the IMU, to review this imposition. It can be done. And don't tell me it's a money problem. We really abolish useless bodies. There are dozens of useless bodies in agriculture alone. The last shame was reported a few days ago in "The Messenger" on February 23rd. One of the many agencies, the CRA (Research Council in Agriculture), has a President who earned over 240,000 euros a year. You know what he did to get back on the line? It took off 42 euros a year, poor man, to return to the expenditure of 239,957.03 euros a year. It's a shameful thing. How do we explain this to our farmers who no longer have the opportunity to live with agriculture? [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)]] , LN-Aut and M5S). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u70	Mr President, my speech will necessarily be brief, because there is not much left to add to what other Members have already said by addressing empty government benches. Here too we must be clear. Undersecretary Zanetti is not in his place, because we need to talk about agriculture and not about finance. And when the government sends to sit, instead of the government, not a representative of the Ministry of Agricultural Resources (and we have a Minister, a Deputy Minister and a Undersecretary), but who deals with finance rather than economics, it means that the course has been completely wrong. That is the basis for this legislation, which we have not shared in the Commission and which we do not share in this House. Taxing agricultural land today means going into contradiction with all the government's statements on how important agriculture is for our country. We are in the year of Expo, as we know by now. This is the year in which the best efficiency and production capacities of Italian agriculture and food and wine should be highlighted. And we are talking here not about a measure that will give space and support to farmers and those who produce, but about one that will put taxes on agriculture and on those who make even heroic agriculture. Going to cultivate in the mountains and in difficult terrains - we remember, in fact, that not all our plains are good to be cultivated - means ensuring a biodiversity that our territory is losing. The government simply needs to reflect on this. Do you want to go in this direction? People know - and I think they have made this abundantly clear - that you are not interested in supporting agriculture, because otherwise you would have sent here today to send back - as you would have done in the Commission - the Minister for Agriculture and not those who deal with economics and finance. You're interested in cashing in order to then go for a selfie, maybe at the inauguration of Expo, and say that our products are the excellence that we protect. But you're not protecting her. Consider these points: taxing agricultural land means putting a noose around farmers' necks, starting with the youngest. We've seen them cooked and raw, but we would never have expected it to go that far. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Serra]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u71	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, over the past few weeks with many of our colleagues, particularly the Group for the Autonomies, we have spoken with the Government about the concerns of local authorities and farmers about the payment of the IMU. In particular, with colleagues from the Interparliamentary Group on the Development of the Mountain, we have for some time highlighted the difficulties of agriculture in these territories, which persist, despite the actions that have been taken over the last two years and the new CAP, which finally indicates mountain agriculture as one of the strategic priorities. Today, mountain agriculture needs targeted regulation, which in some way affects it with rules that are too often penalised because they are set on large plain crops. To intervene in favour of mountain agriculture is not just to protect and enhance production chains and their business fabric. It also means putting in the field policies that have a wider scope, because agriculture, in the mountains, is one of the antidotes against depopulation and the total impoverishment of the territories. Social and economic life in certain mountain areas is based on a delicate balance, where the domino effect is always around the corner. The closure of a small company, the failure of some public service (a post office, to mention the recent controversy, a school, a link line) and a couple of side business activities are enough to generate in a few years the phenomenon of depopulation, often and almost always irreversible. We have many examples in Italy, and not only on the Apennines. But the consequences - we have discussed this many times in this House - are even more serious with regard to the already fragile environmental balance. The human garrison in the mountains prevents hydrogeological failure and alluvial phenomena that also affect the plain. In this context, we can only welcome the measure that we are debating today, because it restores a situation that risked seriously putting in trouble many companies already hard tried for the crisis. The criteria adopted for defining mountain areas were, in fact, absolutely not exhaustive and were unfair. And for this I want to thank the Government, in particular the competent Ministers and Deputy Minister Olivero, who have collected the demands of our territories. Those who know the sector know very well how its strength and capacity for growth are first and foremost driven by a reduction in the tax burden and by bureaucratic and regulatory simplification. We must not forget, in fact, that our agriculture sees a very important presence of so many small and very small people, for whom the still too much bureaucracy and the tightening of the tax burden can become a difficult obstacle to overcome. For this reason the IMU on agricultural land is an exotic tax for the entire sector and represents a brake for an area that, instead, could help the economic recovery with its quality productions and its ability to unite in a winning system territory, environment and excellence of the agri-food. That is why it was necessary to provide for the exemption of the IMU for all agricultural land - as is provided for in Amendment 1,202, of which Mr Ruta is the first signatory - and not only for those in partially or entirely mountainous areas, or for professional entrepreneurs, although they are the most exposed to the crisis and live the greatest difficulties. Similarly, we agree with a number of corrections which make the exemption scheme, contained in the amendments tabled by the rapporteur and some of his colleagues, more equitable, also mentioned by the rapporteur in his initial explanation. Our hope is that the government will be able to identify the resources to reduce the tax burden and give a strong signal to agriculture for all the Italian regions, as has also been reiterated by my previous colleagues. This is a request from professional organisations and local authorities, which we cannot fail to hear. We self-governmentists believe that, together with the fundamental reforms that this Parliament is pursuing, the issues of economic recovery, the fight against the crisis, the enhancement of territorial excellence and the revival of Made in Italy must be pursued with greater force. This is a battle that in some sectors, such as agri-food, is also won by a strong reduction in the tax burden on all those companies that, with conviction, continue to focus on their work. It would be a necessary signal, especially now that Italy is about to open an Expo that puts at the centre the great questions of nutrition in a world that - as we see - is crossed by bitter conflicts, which will resolve even if we will be able to give a response on the land of development, the possibilities of nourishment and sustenance to all its inhabitants. Agriculture is a sector that, especially in recent years, has taken on a very important role, so much so that it becomes central to the escape from the crisis, as well as to the construction of future balances at global level and, not by chance, it is what is affecting young people most and deserves widespread and particular attention. We hope that in the coming months, even with some of the measures in the pipeline, first of all the agricultural link, all this can be realized. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u73	Mr President, Senators, Senators, make citizens pay for their mistakes at all times: this is the sad chorus that repeats the political classes that happen to the government, today as yesterday, and that is perpetuated by this decree-law that we are about to convert. Agriculture has been on its knees for a long time, certainly the victim of contingent errors and opportunisms and system, of those who have unfortunately focused on the destruction of the natural vocation of this country, before a productive sector. These were mistakes made in the national field, and they were then exponentially affected by the European one. You have abandoned a sector that sees us as no longer self-sufficient from the point of view of food, in the name of a failure, that of a path to industrialization always vague and never reached, and you are concretely sinking it with an operation, that of the 80 euros - few, cursed and immediately - that has served nothing, if not for propaganda-customer purposes, but for which you must then find the cover. And to pay the duty is again agriculture, as happened, which this decree-law attempts to protect. But it's a continuous patching on incancrenitised wounds. This is proof that the problem for the institutions is not the opposition that tries to do their job best, beyond what the President-in-Office is chirping, but rather a confusing and imbecile majority. There are thousands of farmers involved in this measure and often in crisis for faults that do not depend on their will, on the increase of weather unpredictability to hydrogeological failure, on the subdiction of our country to Community agricultural policy, such as the international agreements concluded by the European Union passively suffered, and strangely always to the disadvantage of our peculiarities and excellences, as the Calabrian farmers and the South in general know. It is urgent to find an appropriate solution - in the Commission we have tried to remedy some of the issues and the measure seeks to provide a buffer solution - so that farmers do not have to pay a tax for many of them that is unsustainable, which is in fact a labour tax and a betrayal of the agricultural reform, which originated from the Belusconi Government and then continued with the subsequent ones. But I've heard so many here forget about it, looking for a new virginity. The parameters currently in force - we have heard this - refer to ISTAT lists and have been declared by the Institute itself no longer up-to-date and, therefore, not adequate to assess the actual nature and position of the land on which IMU taxation must be based. The criteria for defining taxes in the agricultural sector need to be revised. The immense increase in cadastral extimes, dictated shamelessly by the need to make cash, does not correspond to the real value of the real estate. The same redefinition of incomes is essential: farmers cannot be asked to pay a tax which - when it does not exceed it - is equal to the income produced. It is shameful that this situation in agriculture should be reduced to a balance sheet. It is precisely this attitude that is making the country slip more and more into marginality and its people into misery! With the excuse of finding the financial cover and to save the real holders of the intangible national wealth, you will give one of the last blows to a sector already struggling with a tough crisis, jeopardising the planning of farmers in the face of an uncertain regulatory framework. Now farmers do not deserve to be discriminated against and further sacrificed. They cannot be satisfied with the simple postponement of the payment, which has also been successful in obtaining in the Commission, because it is still due. Nor must they hope for the acceptance of appeals to the TAR and the continuous return to the hands of justice to obtain it and to see their right reasons fulfilled, which should find an answer in our capacity as just legislators. It is absurd - as has been repeated here - that, precisely in the imminence of the much praised and advertised Expo 2015, our agricultural producers, who embody one of the vantages of Made in Italy, are not put in a position to compete on equal terms with other producers in competing countries. It is paradoxical that we should call for the protection of our agri-food system and of those who live in it. This protection, if it were lacking - in fact, it still lacks for the Minister's little attention, as has been repeated - would also be reflected negatively on the whole community, as well as on the future of agricultural enterprises: two destinies often connected, since many agricultural enterprises operate in socially disadvantaged areas and in which other forms of productive activity are lacking. This is something far from secondary, and yet not recognised by the institutions, and in a context which is already serious due to the crisis in the price of milk, the decline in production in the olive and wine sectors, the increase in excise duties on agricultural gas oil and the crisis in the citrus sector, and the partnership agreement with Morocco. A good legislator must be able to seize, in times of emergency, the opportunities to give and to share trust: this sector, decisive for the country, deserves our and your commitment to find a definitive solution to its problems, which must go absolutely from the elimination of the agricultural IMU. Do we want to find or do we want to remove this sector from our national priorities with its problems, leaving it crushed between the continental agricultural economies - as it seems to be seen with the TTIP agreement - and the emerging North African ones and at the mercy of a malignant Europe? This is, in fact, the message you are sending to our farmers with this measure as well. [[Applause from Senators Bencini, Mussini and Romans Maurizio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u74	Senator Formigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u75	Mr President, contrary to what many illustrious colleagues have said before me, I believe that the measure before us, although within the limits it contains and which I do not deny, should perhaps have a positive assessment from us. And I will try briefly to explain why I am convinced. It provides for immediate and precise measures to be applied with regard to the exemption from the municipal tax of mountain and partly mountain land. In Article 1 - for example - the text issued by the Government establishes, from the year 2015, the new criteria of the exemption for the IMU on agricultural land. This has the ability to resolve a series of critical issues that had emerged and that the Commission that I have the honour to preside had signalled, as a result of the issuing of the interministerial decree 28 November 2014. On the basis of these criteria, the exemption in question applies to all agricultural land and to non-agricultural land situated in the wholly mountain classified municipalities, as set out in the list of mountain municipalities drawn up by ISTAT, to agricultural land, as well as to non-agricultural land owned and carried out by direct farmers and professional farmers registered in the agricultural provision, located in the partly mountain classified municipalities, referred to in the same ISTAT list. Not only that: paragraph 2 provides that the exemption also applies to land located in partially mountainous municipalities owned by direct farmers and professional farmers, in the event that the same land is granted for rent. In this case, the decree-law intervenes to resolve some critical issues that had been reported. Paragraph 4 states that, for the year 2014, the IMU is not due for those land that were exempt from it pursuant to the decree already cited of 28 November 2014, which instead are taxable due to the application of the criteria referred to in the preceding paragraphs. For example, they enjoy the exemption, also for the year 2014, land with immutable agro-silvo-pastoral destination to indivisible and incomparable collective property that does not fall into mountain areas or hills. With reference to these land, the Government undertakes to issue a special decree, referred to the Ministry of the Interior, in agreement with that of the economy and finance, which will determine the modalities for the compensation of the lower revenues in favour of the municipalities in whose territory the aforementioned land falls. Another important point, which seems to me worthy of note and positive approval, is contained in paragraph 5, which provides that taxpayers will pay the tax due in total for the year 2014 by February 10, 2015. Why do I say "positive"? Because in municipalities where specific rates have not been decided for agricultural land, the rate applicable to the payment of the IMU is the basic rate, equal to 0.7%. Finally, Article 2 repeals the recently adopted IRAP tax provisions for agricultural producers: provisions which had not been applied in any case, since their effectiveness was subject to prior authorisation by the European Commission - at present never received - and has the remaining financial cover in the measure. I remember the work done by the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production. It expressed itself promptly on the text of the decree-law, giving an opinion on 18 February (of which I myself was rapporteur), in which it was first made aware that the criteria identified by the emergency measure, on the one hand, provide an element of certainty with respect to the critical issues arising as a result of the enactment of the pre-existing legislation; on the other hand, however, they intervene on a subject of particular delicacy for the primary sector, since the agricultural land is an indispensable instrumental asset of the enterprise. Mr President, I should like to point out to the Government that there has also been an urgent need for an overall review of the subject of taxation on agricultural land in the national territory, which is capable of differentiating geographical contexts and mountain or semi-mountain areas where there are real production difficulties and less profitability. The objective is to introduce changes in the perimeter of agricultural land in mountain or semi-mountain areas benefiting from the IMU exemption, in order to take into account the profitability of the land, ensuring the consistency of the tax measure with the contribution capacity of the primary sector. In addition, we have drawn attention to the lowland agricultural land worthy of particular consideration, as it is located in economically disadvantaged areas or affected by calamitous events related to the disruption of the territory, with the obligation - in our opinion, this is an obligation - to protect the small property in particular. The Commission has also expressed its views on further notations concerning the status of the grantor for agricultural land for hire or hire; the introduction of favourable measures, at least for the first year of application, for persons who were exempted from the payment of the IMU for agricultural land under the previous framework; and the possible identification of different methods of financial cover, which allow the maintenance of the IRAP tax provisions for agricultural producers and the restoration of the special funds to be allocated to the financing of draft legislation of parliamentary initiative. I must point out that the remarks made by the Commission, which were approved by a large majority, were only partially reflected in the Commission's work on the subject. However, I welcome the specific consideration that has been given to hilly land through the introduction of a deduction of EUR 200 and the specific listing of the areas concerned. In this way, special attention has been paid to areas which, however, have production difficulties, as they are located in non-flat areas, which, while not benefiting from a real exemption, receive a signal of attention. The lower tax for the agricultural sector concerned is around €15 million. I would also like to recall the Commission's amendment that provides for the introduction of the IMU exemption for agricultural land, whether or not uncultivated, located in the municipalities of the smaller islands. Specific attention also receives the island of Lampedusa, in view of the permanent state of crisis. Allow me to quote a further amendment from the Commission, which also extends to the years after 2014 the exemption for land which was exempt under the previous legislation, and which today would be taxable as a result of the application of the new criteria. This measure, too, can only be positively assessed with a view to tax fairness and consistency in the application of tax rules. I would also like to point out that a provision proposed by the Commission on the substance, which I welcome, is the provision for non-application of sanctions and interest measures in the event of non-compliance with the deadline of 10 February 2014 for the payment of the tax, provided that the burden is met by 31 March of the current year; whereas in the case of payments already made under the previous legislation and in addition due, it is clear the right to reimbursement or compensation where provided by the municipality concerned. No amendments have been proposed with regard to Article 2 on financial cover. In conclusion, I repeat the very strong need, repeatedly mentioned in the Agriculture Commission, to translate into concrete actions the aim of enhancing the primary sector and the agricultural and agri-food production sector. This objective can also be usefully pursued, and above all, by means of tax relief. The emergency measure that the Government submits to us presents, for all that I have said, elements of favor. I hope, however, that this will only be a first step in terms of a thorough review of the approach of this strategic production structure. Also the imminent development of the Expo of Milan imposes at national level - to our country, as an organizer - a renewed and visible commitment to the protection of quality productions, including organic ones, and in support of the conservation of the wide differentiation of the offer that has always been a strength of our agriculture. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u76	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u77	Mr President, in these two years of my stay in the Senate, the IMU has come back to a number of measures. Remember the various decrees of 2013, which first procrastinated payment, then abolished one installment, then the other. It could be said that: "Doing and undoing is all a work". Coming to the IMU for land, we know that their exemption was provided for in paragraph 1 (h) of Article 7 of Legislative Decree No. 504 of 1992. You understand, dear citizens: I said 1992. Twenty-three years have passed and we are still here to discuss what are the mountain municipalities, the mountain municipalities but not too much, the partially delimited ones, the partially mountain ones, constantly changing the criteria of definition. The first criteria were 1952, then 1977 and finally there are the Ministerial Decrees of 2014, which refer to Decree-Law No 66 of 2014, which established that the altimetric limits of the Municipalities are derived from the ISTAT list. After changing all these classification criteria, you notice that those limits are not good; then ask ISTAT to re-evaluate the problem. In the meantime, the weeks pass, the legislative measures are intertwined and overlapped, which, among other things, modify the payment dates, from 16 December to January, to February: now, with the last proposed amendment, we arrive in March, creating all the conditions for recourse to the TAR. This does not end anymore: this story reminds me so much of the milk quota. But what credibility do you have if you keep shouting: To the wolf, to the wolf, to the wolf, to the wolf, to the Who believes you anymore? Now many rejoice because the exempted municipalities have reached 3,456, while the partially mountainous ones are 655, but never tell how this is financed. But in all these years was it not possible to do a serious work of overall evaluation, not only taking into account physical parameters? Today we have hilly territories with very high income and economic value, as they produce world excellence - I refer in some cases to wines - that are exempted from the IMU and we have plain soils that do not have profitability, that have to pay for it. But how many farms are closing down? Don't you wonder? The drama of the livestock, pig and fruit and vegetable supply chains is before everyone's eyes. That is not the way to treat agriculture. Let me say a few words about finding resources for the exempted municipalities, which we are not talking about in this debate. It would have been desirable for the Government to find other sources of coverage of the IMU exemption rule, without once again placing the burden on farmers, avoiding the abolition of the preferential scheme, which has never entered into force, demonstrating that the Government adopts a policy of announcements with regard to the agricultural sector, without, however, taking real advantage of agricultural operators. It would also have been necessary to avoid regaining at the entry of the balance sheet the sums referred to in Article 49, paragraph 2 (d) of Decree-Law No 66 of 2014, relating to liabilities. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that this measure is yet another example of a legislative juxtaposition, which creates confusion among the citizens, who no longer understand anything. They know that someone will have to pay, without equity, with obvious unequal treatment. It is not possible to treat those citizens, who, by the way, allow us to live, as subjects. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u78	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u81	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking in defence of the senate's decorum. It is a practice that, at the beginning of the sitting, when there is an opportunity, the quorum should be checked. However, I believe that this morning it really reached its peak, with Senator Mastrangeli who made the request for verification and then left after five minutes. This gives just the idea of who sits here in the Senate simply to take the diary, and it is certainly not a nice figure. At least between us we use a minimum of gentlemen's agreements, if you can still: those who ask for the verification of the quorum then do at least the pleasure of staying until the end of the session. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u82	Senator Candiani, you know very well that there is a debate going on which the party you represent is not alien; but as long as Article 67 of the Constitution provides for the absence of a mandate, we must keep it as it is.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u85	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, today is the 23rd anniversary of the massacre in Khojaly, a small town in Nagorno-Karabakh, Azerbaijan. In the night between 25 and 26 February 1992, the Armenian military forces attacked the city. The people sought escape in the snow, forced to abandon everything that belonged to them. No one was spared by the militia or the ice. Khojaly was sacked and razed to the ground. A real genocide, never recognized. The report of the victims of the massacre is 613 people, mostly women, children and the elderly. There were 1,275 civilian prisoners, including women and children, who suffered violence, humiliation and severe physical injuries during their imprisonment. Among these, 150 prisoners disappeared without a trace. Human Rights Watch described the Khojaly massacre as the biggest and horrible massacre of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan. For more than twenty years, with the military occupation by Armenia of Nagorno-Karabakh, the region of Azerbaijan, and the seven surrounding Azerbaijani regions, Armenia has invaded, in figures, 20 percent of the territory of Azerbaijan, causing destruction and ruin. When it comes to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan, it is important to remember that there are four UN Security Council resolutions, nos. 822, 853, 874 and 884 of 1993, which called for the withdrawal of the Armenian armed forces from the occupied Azerbaijani territories. These resolutions have been repeatedly ignored, as have other documents from the United Nations General Assembly, the Council of Europe, the European Union, the European Parliament, the OSCE and NATO. Last, in temporal order, the European Parliament resolution of 23 October 2013 saying that the resolution of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan should comply with the UN Security Council resolutions and the fundamental principles of the OSCE Minsk Group, as set out in the G8 Joint Declaration of 10 July 2009. It is hoped that those responsible for this genocide, currently at the political and military summits in Armenia, will be denounced to the Hague Court for crimes against humanity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u88	RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to announce an urgent question about what happened in Sicily between Saturday 21 and Sunday 22 because of the rains. There has been and, unfortunately, a very heavy rain is still going on, which has caused enormous damage to agriculture. Two rivers are exonded in the Riberese area, the Platani and the Verdura, which have done very great damage, due to lack of ordinary and extraordinary maintenance of the banks. But there is a very serious fact. In the night between Saturday and Sunday, at 2 o'clock, the bulkheads of a dam called Gammauta were opened. As a matter of fact, the dam is managed by a public entity which is the Enel. Opening that bulkhead in a written and irresponsible manner, it was ensured that the influx of water reached a huge peak, devastating all the citrus groves (that, however, is a DOP zone) and doing irreversible damage, which will take more than five years for the complete restoration, as I said in the previous intervention. They destroyed the agricultural economy. I asked the President-in-Office of the Council, the Minister for Infrastructure, the Minister for Agriculture what they intend to do about this disaster: in my opinion, they must declare the state of disaster mandatory. Secondly, I have asked that a Commission of Inquiry be set up to investigate the responsibilities of Enel for this management, I repeat, written and irresponsible, also due - which is more rageful - to the fact that exactly on 9 January, when the rains were missing, or at least the phenomena were very calm, the Consortium of reclamation of the territory asked for the water from the dam of Gammauta to transfer it to another dam. Exactly after 45 days, there was no response and today we are witnessing this devastation of the territory. I am sure, Mr President, that in your sensitivity you will not fail to inform the Government of this very scandalous act for the country. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u91	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to remind the representative of the Government here that the Council of Europe has already reminded us that the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office (UNAR) should be called UNA, i.e. National Anti-Discrimination Office, which is generally intended, and should therefore include those of a religious, cultural, ethnic, political, sexual orientation and gender identity nature and not just racial discrimination. Since the UNAR is the only office that is managing policies and dissemination activities in this respect, it is time to also address fundamental freedoms and rights guaranteed by our Constitution. Our country is sometimes lacking on these issues. I also addressed Minister Boschi a while ago, at a meeting of the Heads of Group, asking you too for a commitment from the Government. I have always been told that it would take place in the future, that for the time being there was no Minister for Equal Opportunities, that there was only one office with a ministerial consultant, but it seems to me that the time has come to give more strength and energy to this area, because we know that then the laws do not change. We have voted on the law on denial, the law on homophobia will come, we have voted on laws that affect discrimination, but they are not enough: cultural operations are needed. Given that the government has often committed itself, but we have not even managed to get through the short divorce and the most elementary things that have been proposed, at least on these cultural issues I ask for a firm commitment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-398.ana.u92	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13 p.m.
