ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 17 March.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1813 already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u9	Madam President, I would like to ask you a few moments, just to let the House find the right balance. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] What we treat, in fact, is flowing away like water on marble. There is one thing that struck me in this morning's debate, namely the fact that for many colleagues, essentially of the majority, of the PD, the issue has been resolved as a simple regulatory application, indeed let's say so, as an operation of virtuous necessity in order to be able to change our order according to the wishes of the European Union, which, on the other hand, is always much more careful and forward. First of all, Madam President, it must be said that this decree-law expires tomorrow. Everything that is happening in here, so, ladies and gentlemen, is a total farce, of which you of the majority are the main actors. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bulgarelli.]] Someone is unaware of this, because he probably has not yet realized the fact that he is totally indifferent to the wishes behind this decree-law. Someone else, on the other hand, probably thought that he could enjoy the benefit of the gentleman, of the one above (but not the one with the capital S). Madam President, the first institutional anomaly is that this decree should not have been signed by the President of the Republic protempore Pietro Grasso. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , because the conditions of urgency and necessity do not apply. I hope to President Grasso that one day his name will not be included in the history books like that of the one who did not dare say no because he hoped to be elected President of the Republic; because this too must be remembered. It must be remembered that there should be constitutionally important presuppositions within the measure and that the President of the Council of Ministers said he had to adopt a decree-law to prevent speculation and to prevent the market from creating anomalies: we have seen these anomalies, Mr President, with the speculations made in the following days! Even, in some cases, such as that of the Bank of Etruria, with growth of 60 percent of the value. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u10	I apologise, Senator Candiani: I ask my colleagues to lower their voices, because this is a very hard task. I ask for that on both the right and the left sides of the Presidency! Please, Senator Candiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u11	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, thank you for the kindness of this point of order. However, in view of the general context, it is obvious that none of those who will then vote yes to the question of trust that will be raised this afternoon, either because they have not understood what they are doing or have not understood the part they are playing. I am very angry about this, because the citizens outside are kept in the dark and once again this is passed as a reform when there is nothing in here about reform! On the contrary, partisan interests are satisfied, with a President of the Council of Ministers abusing constitutional bodies: the Senate did not even have time to do serious work in the Commission, where the measure arrived the last days of last week, after the House of Deputies had to rot this decree-law for forty-five days out of sixty that were available! And then you come here today to tell us that we're doing a routine business? But did you realize that someone here is taking over popular banks? Did you see that? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators De Pin, Bignami and Simeoni]] And if you're aware of that, do you understand what's behind it? We all remember that very curious phone call from a few years ago: We have a bank. Well, Madam President, it was not necessary to be a scientist to read, in the past days, some statements by the administrator of Unipol Group Financial and UnipolSai, Carlo Cimbri, as reported in the press. It is stated, on "Milano Finanza" the latter has expressed words of great appreciation for the provision on popular banks strongly wanted by Renzi, emphasizing: "rules of governance equal for all certainly constitute a correction" and that "an anomaly is corrected that will certainly trigger processes of aggregation. In this respect, I share the position of the legislator which will lead to a reorganization of our banking system." And maybe tomorrow there will be the Banca Popolare di Milano that merges with Banca Popolare dell'Emilia Romagna and, still together, through that infinite hole that is Unipol Banca, finally Unipol Gruppo Finanziario will take control of it, thus finally being able to complete that path and say "we have a bank"! This is what is happening and I address my colleagues in the New Right Centre: what are you supporting? These are taking possession of popular banks, even with the brazenness of those who want to make it pass as a virtuous reform for the credit system, where inside the credit system they will not be facilitated by speculators! And, dear God, there would be so many of those elements not to proceed with this measure, President. I still wonder: what is the government's interest? Is that the country's or the foreign investors'? The strong doubt that comes is that, for the umpteenth time, we want to make reform something that instead serves to stabilize some balances and a hunger for money from abroad. Banking reforms take place on the basis of banking separation! We have proposed it several times and again in the Commission, and today the Government has gone in the wrong direction. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators De Pin and Bignami]] It starts from these aspects to seriously reform and protect the saver from the speculator. Otherwise, they will be yet another side of the line of speculation, so that they can be allowed to play some games of power. We would really like to see the list of those who were at the table at Renzi's thousand euro dinner. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] How many of those who will make it easier and take advantage of it in the next few days! How many of those you will finance today, with your vote! And then don't be surprised if, at the time of the investigation, it turns out that there will still be some concession, such as those highways, when friends of friends took advantage of it. Let us think about what is happening here (and I say this to you, colleagues in the PD): you cannot turn this into a reform of the popular banks, because this only means satisfying political appetites and the games of power that guarantee the President of the Council of Ministers its own electoral space. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni.]] However, it is not a popular electoral area, but an electoral area based on power games that will crush you. Today you can no longer tell yourself defenders of the people, but only lobbyists who are behind you and who, through their own pressure capacities, force you to vote for these craps made by the government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Bignami and Simeoni.]] I, Madam President, am amazed to see the superficiality with which the subject has been dealt with, especially today, on the day of expiry of the decree-law. The amendments could be examined and the subject discussed further. Of course, Senator Ricchiuti, it is true that there have been in the years of the managements not well done on the popular banks, indeed there have been. But this can't be an excuse to make this kind of mess, because there's an operating mode and there's a history of popular banks that we can't erase. This is what has made this type of credit different from the SpA and what they have done over the years. This issue cannot be dealt with superficially, but it must instead be deepened with the seriousness it needs. Well, Madam President. You will go and approve this measure. We have tabled amendments, but we know that the government will make it a piece of paper in a few minutes, because it has clearly brought the situation to such an extent that it requires confidence for itself. No, this is not serious: this means disrespect for the citizens and, once again, preventing politics from taking its course in a positive way. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Bignami and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u12	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the debate on this measure should, at least in part, disregard the substance. In fact, opinions are different and articulate; one wonders whether it is correct and fair to define this progressive measure, especially for the part that concerns the popular banks and their nature, that is, whether it is useful for the country to exceed that legal dimension and also that operating mode of this part of the credit or if instead it is not. I say that we must at least partially overcome the issue of merit and focus little more on the subject of method. The Senate comes to discuss this game when it no longer serves, because the Chamber of Deputies retains this provision for about fifty days about sixty necessary for the conversion of the decree into law and therefore, having to defend the government and its majority the possibility of conversion, it takes away the possibility to the Senate, to the senators, to this part of the people represented, to intervene on the merit, that is, on the individual provisions contained in it. The reasoning on the method is also valid with regard to the nature of this measure from the constitutional point of view, i.e. the consistency of this measure with the constitutional rule governing the decree-laws. I would like to make a suggestion to the Head of Government and to those who represent him at this time among the benches of the Government in the Senate. What sense does it make that the Senate and Parliament are called upon to decide on the constitutionality or not of a decree-law if this is done on the basis of political reasoning and the numbers of the majority? We all know that; the Members of the majority know this, as the opposition colleagues who supported the prejudices know: this decree is from a constitutional point of view clearly unlawful. In fact, the conditions of necessity and urgency do not apply and it is clear that these conditions do not apply for the implementation times contained in it, for the articulation of the issues it deals with and for the way in which it has been written and proposed for consideration by Parliament. It is important to contextualize this intervention. The fact that a popular bank below or above the assets of 8 billion can be scaled by some other company in the financial market is not a scandal. We are in a market economy and the market economy requires that economic actors can be scaled, change ownership and become something else compared to what they were and can even change the very purposes of their mission. The problem is another one and must be contextualized with respect to all measures affecting the economy, but also institutional reform. There's an idea I don't share because I don't think it's gonna do my country any good. There is the idea of concentration and centralization of powers. This idea, which manifests itself in the measures that concern the economy and in those that concern the social and institutional organization of our country, does not concern the national dimension alone. Nor is it a question of supporting or defending the possibilities and prospects of economic and financial or political and social powers within our country. This is about doing something more. It is a question of defining the nature of the sovereignty of this country in these matters, as in the others, which transform Italy from a founding country of the European Union to a compressive country of some European country in an expansionary phase. In other words, it is a question of submitting to international economic powers which now intervene explicitly and without making any mystery of them. The interceptions of foreign capital are one of the things that we most boast as positive data. We do this in industry; we do not understand why this should not be done in the financial sector. But if all these economic powers control our information, they influence our policy and subject our social conditions to their mechanisms of development, to their aims of profit, if all this happens, I wonder what the destiny of our community and our people is. I wonder, in other words, whether it is clear in mind what are and what will be the consequences of the individual acts - all well done in relation to that objective - put in place by the Government and the majority. We have been telling economists for years how a country should function, how the European Union should function, how we must regulate social relations. For years we have been receiving recipes from this elite of great thinkers. And I would be happy to see a result for which, if a family father loses a job, it is two who win one each, as they tell us. Just as I would be delighted to see gross domestic product take off and I would be even happier to see the results of our economy positively affect the lives of the citizens of our community. But that is not the case, unfortunately. People's banks are gonna get out of hand. Our small and very small micro-enterprises may not have access to any kind of credit from now on. It may also be that the number of unemployed who will produce the credit sector (about 12,000, 15,000 or even 20,000) increases the number of Italian unemployed. And it may also be that at the end of all this path the growth that we would like to engage does not hang up at all. I may be wrong and it may be that all those who have taught us how we should behave to this day are right, even if the data does not comfort those thesis. Madam President, at least allow ourselves to be discussed in the Commissions on the substance, to discuss the subject in greater depth. Let us not go through the trick of the urgent decree and the political vote on the constitutionality of the measures. Let us all be able to reason on the consequences, because we are not paying for those consequences, but the citizens and Italy are paying for them! [[Applause from Senators Barozzino, Bignami, De Pin and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u14	We greet the students and students of the High School of State "Alfonso Gatto" in Battipaglia, in the province of Salerno, who are attending our works. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u15	Madam President, with regard to the Senate Act 1813, I have seen that your President-in-Office of the Council has gone around to advertise himself: a lot of smoke to hide the little bad roast in it. Let's talk about the bad roast you put in it. In fact, there is not only the matter of popular banks, but also another. But I also want to start with the popular banks, since it's exactly what you've focused on. Statement by your President-in-Office: "There are too many bankers and few banks that lend money." And in fact we are going to kill the sector that lends money: the popular banks. As the CGIA Study Centre in Mestre says, since credit crunch began (i.e. the lack of working money), popular banks have increased loans by 15.4%. The banks SpA, in which you want to transform them, have decreased them by 4.9 percent. Ergo, you go hit exactly who's lending the money. In addition, popular banks in times of crisis lend money, while the banks SpA tend to re-enter their loans. So, the popular banks do exactly what should be done when there is a crisis, and the banks SpA do exactly what every usurer does when there is a crisis: he takes you by the neck and asks you to return the money. And that's the second reason not to go hitting popular banks. The third reason is that since 2008 popular banks have increased employment while banks SpA have reduced branches and thus reduced employment. So, you go hit a sector that creates jobs, trying to turn it into a type of bank that destroys employment. Congratulations. Zero out of three. But, moreover, to do this you lie. I'm glad Senator Fornaro's here. He said that there are 70 popular banks in Italy and only 10 of them are affected by this measure, but he failed to say that these 10 banks alone cover 90 percent of the assets of the people. So, actually, they're the big part; the other 60 are irrelevant. As always, however, just quote one number and not the other to make it look like one thing instead of another. As far as the assets of the Banco Popolare are concerned, it turns out to me that they are pairs to 160 billion euros. I watched it from the profit and loss account: not EUR 120 billion. The figure of EUR 40 billion is not really a small difference, we understand. Why isn't this popular banking thing working? Part of it has already been said. Popular banks, where one is worth one (I was able to say that), that is, where each shareholder represents one vote, regardless of how many shares he has, have the great advantage of being very democratic. You might say, well, so the board of directors is an expression, perhaps, of 10,000-15,000 members. It is also true, but there is no need for a decree-law: just go on the banking statute, limiting, for example, the number of delegations. For example, the same person cannot have 5,000 delegations of 5,000 people having an action. Or you just have to limit the number of times you can be elected to be on the board of directors. All this can be done by statute: you don't need to go down with the chainsaw when you can do a much simpler thing. But you didn't. Why? Because the popular banks have another peculiarity: it is the banks that, compared to the stock price (the listed ones), have the highest asset value, that is, the richest ones, where every stock is the one that is worth the most. So, nothing better than to feed them to those whose shares are worth rag paper, like the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, which, perhaps with the help of another article in your decree-law, could easily merge - I know - with the Banco Popolare, UBI Banca or - better still - with the Banca Popolare di Vicenza, which is not even quoted. You know that for unlisted banks there is a greater difficulty in determining the stock value. Well, what are you doing? You even force these banks, which are protected, to quote. A stroke of genius: let's give them to someone. Well, what does it mean to give them to someone? In addition to the above-mentioned capital reasons (i.e., we are going to get the safe in a popular bank that, by its nature, is below the others), we can also give them to foreign contenders. I remember that foreign contenders are always looking for this kind of big business. What would we get? A reduction in jobs. In fact, whenever these banking aggregations were created, she quit people. In fact, if you have a counter, like Unicredit, and you have a bank UBI counter 50 meters away, what do you do with two doors so close? Close it. It's called rationalization and it's not even stupid. It's stupid, though, to think about making him do it. In fact, if we want to safeguard the job, we can't do this kind of nonsense. I'd like to say something else. You say that the populars are not rooted in the territory. This is false, because, even if they are present in a large number of Provinces, they are always the expression of a local shareholder and lend to the people of the territory. That is also a fact. At least try to bring good arguments and not lies in support of what you say. Anyway, let's move on. What's the second surprise inside the egg? There are two bad surprises. The surprise is that you create a vehicle company that serves to help companies that are in asset difficulty. You have also added industrial and international vocations. For this reason, you justify the use of SACE, which is the right-hand side of the Deposit and Loan Fund and deals with internationalisation. What do you think? But only one name: ILVA. So, this would be the eighth decree save ILVA. You created the vehicle company to give ILVA money. Who can put the money in here? The privates. But private individuals with state guarantees. Nice when one invests money and the state guarantees! And then institutional investors can do it. Who are these mysteries? Institutional investors are not private, they are also the public. In fact, you wrote social security funds. Yeah, well, a big hit on the social security funds, too. Great idea. Or the INPS and the above-mentioned Deposit and Loan Fund, with the excuse that the latter should start making credit. But this is a real thing inside a fake thing. That's not the credit. How much money is going to be in this safe? 300-400 million, but also 500 million. So, it's 500 million that could have the entire state guarantee for the ILVA in Taranto. At least you wrote it! The rest, what you put in, is smoke. You talked about portability of current accounts (three pages of specification), or about innovative start ups, which are fine, throwing away some millionaires. Or you talked about cross-border accounts. Would this serve to attract foreign investment? That's not necessary. Then, for once, you should have the courage to say why you do things. Do you make them because you want to give away popular banks? Do you do them to help the Mount of the Paschi of Siena? Just say it: yes, we do not want to fail the Mount of the Paschi and we do it for that. Say it. Or the People's Bank of Etruria and Lazio: you could ask Mrs. Boschi's father [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bignami and Simeoni]] , since it is in very small conflict of interest, having a daughter who was present in the Council of Ministers, when the decree-law under consideration was approved. If she'd at least gotten up and got out, she'd have made a better impression, but you don't have to touch that. Aren't you worried about the Italian banking sector? All right! Aren't you worried about throwing the coffin money in Taranto's ILVA? This is also okay, but paraphrasing what Cicero once said: how long will you abuse the patience of Italian citizens? I think you've already abused too much of it. In conclusion, I move on to the last point: at the same time as I have spoken in this debate, I ask - before the reply is opened - not to move on to the articles and that this proposal be put to the vote. The reason seems obvious to me: already the decree in question, in itself, should not even be placed under the hat of the decree-law, because it is not necessary and urgent to carry out now the intervention on the system of banks: I have just shown it, just pass through the statute. There is, therefore, enough reason to say that we should not even go through the articles of the measure: learn to act by statute, which is a much simpler and less invasive thing. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bencini, Bignami, Campanella, Simeoni and Vacciano. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u16	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u17	Madam President, cooperative credit banks are a key intermediary in the world banking system: there are 3,700 cooperative credit banks, which, by capitarian vote, express themselves and regulate themselves and represent 60% of the branches in France, almost 50% of the branches in Germany and Canada and 40% in the Netherlands and Austria. In fact, 39 important cooperative banks develop their activities and form their assets and assets. According to a study by the Bundesbank, which is known as popular banks, there were 1,200 institutions in the European system and 13,600 branches governed by mutual and social interest principles, with an aggregate balance sheet of around €1,000 billion, serving 30 million customers. For example, in a country like Canada, the important Desjardins bank has an asset of 223 million Canadian dollars, 45,000 employees and 5.6 million members. This bank is defined by Bloomberg - not by the League of Cooperatives - as the main and most solid bank in the North American system, at a time when in those countries the crisis has hit very hard and the second bank in the world. This is the reality of today and these are the great numbers of today. To return instead to the roots, we owe much to men who perhaps not all remember, like Schulze-Delitzsch or Guglielmo Raiffeisen and with them the Italian Luzzatti, who were the founders of the cooperative unions of bank credit, tracing the furrows in the land in which will develop that social market economy, fruit of the fruitful interweave of liberal political thought, Catholic reformer, that starts from the second half of the nineteenth century and arrives, passing from Don Sturzo to La Pira, to the still modern debate of the Constitution, on Title III of the First part of the Constitution, concerning economic relations, animated by men and women such as Terracini, Togliatti, Malvesti, Cortese, Fanfani, Taviani, from the excellent rapporteur of article 45 on cooperation, the socialist Canevari, heir of Bruno Buozzi, by Lina Merlin and other women (the few women, but from the great social and political weight, that animated the debate on the great economic issues in particular on the cooperation). It is a very rich debate that develops between 1947 and 1948, which traces the deep furrow, in which our country's economy develops: that networked economy, widespread and different, made of large, but also medium-sized, small and very small enterprises. Those very small enterprises mainly artisan, assisted almost exclusively by local mutual credit. Without that credit we would not have those companies and we would not have the backbone and architecture of the Italian economic system. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] The text that the Constituents give us, therefore, exalts in the freedom of enterprise cooperation as a democratic method to make an alternative enterprise to that pure capitalist system. What was that of the Constituent: a process of capitalism? No, it was more: it is the trial of a freedom, which of freedom had nothing but a lying face, because it had only guaranteed the free oppression gabellated for free competition. That's what Malvesti said in that debate. But even more modern, and more relevant to the reality that we live today, is the contribution to that debate of the liberal Cortese, when he recalls that if there is a liberal revolution to be carried out - I say this especially by addressing the benches of the Group to which I belong - it is in the field of the economy, and it is aimed at restoring the market economy against capitalist degenerations, against cartels, against trusts, against pools, against monopolies of all kinds. Today, to those definitions, we can only add that of financial intermediaries, which was not yet known, which often, acting as locations in tax havens, move hostile acquisitions to absorb economic value constituted over time and burn it in the bonfire of the finance of Anglo-Saxon deregulation. With this decree you want to do exactly this: to make compatible with that model of finance the fertile interweaving between cooperative-bank enterprise and company widespread in the territory, which has patiently supported precisely that development. They are also accomplices of asymmetrical bureaucratic vigilance, of some people and very distracted about others, as has already been said in this House, today voted against the Italian Constitution, which does not allow a limit to be imposed, whether it relates to the scope of the activities in which cooperation can operate, or to the dimension that cooperation can take on. This is within that somewhat stupid debate, between eight billion and 30 billion; those 30 billion established by the European Union, which we pretend not to see because it is more convenient for this Government to focus its attention on that limit in order to make the expropriation process even more possible. All this reminded us of Cesare Mirabelli - simply a President emeritus of the Constitutional Court - in a commentary on the work of the Constitutional Court, who I hope will help you (as he helped me) to evaluate with great concern the effects of a law that will destroy economy, to enrich the tragic list of financial speculations, to the detriment of peoples not protected by their governments and economic systems torn apart by the most speculative finance, as if the crisis of 1929 and that of 2008 had taught us nothing. But it wasn't like that for everyone. In fact, when the ECB published last year the list of the 120 European banks that would end up under single supervision, the absence of half of Germany's banking system emerged loudly in the total Italian distraction: 1,700 banks out of 3,532 Germans did not exceed the systemic threshold, thanks to that regulation I mentioned earlier. Among these, all savings banks, all cooperatives, whether Volksbank or Raiffeisenbank, i.e. those banks operating on the territory, grow and provide credit thanks to the principle of capitarian voting in the organization of mutuality, prevailing and not prevalent. This is the backbone, the third pillar of the German banking system, which is the strongest in Europe. And we, second only to them, today instead establish, with this decree-law, that we are not interested in defending that system, as it was done in Germany. In fact, only in Italy, and only in Italy (not even in France would ever happen), is decreed the expropriation of the free ownership organized in the cooperation towards international speculation; translated, means to make succumb the savings, the rich savings of the Italians (third saving in the world), still held in the popular banks, from those instruments that we call alternatively hedge funds or financial intermediaries, that seem neutral but are not at all. It is clear that there is a new merchant bank in Palazzo Chigi, Senator Zanda. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S groups and Senator Bignami.]] Once he didn't speak English, today he speaks it that way, and maybe he speaks more South American. Gianni Agnelli was right, when he said, with Sardinian bitterness: You know how it is, it takes left-wing governments to do things that no other government could ever do. [[Applause from Senator Bignami. Recalls of the President]] Madam President, I should like to end by thanking you for your patience and addressing you, so that you, in addition to this public debate, can pass on to President Grasso my heavy complaint to you. President Grasso bears two great responsibilities in this decree. The first is to have signed a decree-law totally unconstitutional: but I am serene, the Constitutional Court will try to shame Government and Parliament, declaring it unconstitutional. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] The second responsibility is to have prevented the Senate from examining it, to make all this possible, leaving it fifty days out of sixty in the Chamber of Deputies, knowing that there the changes were much more difficult and here, instead, more likely. It took a travicello king, who in the few days available signed this decree, since neither Napolitano nor Mattarella could ever sign a decree-law that will make the Italians poorer.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u18	Senator, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u19	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, thank you again. I therefore end with an appeal to President Mattarella, to our Head of State: I invite him to be a guarantor, for the first time after a while, of that Italian Constitution of which, instead, this Government and this majority will be devastated. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators Bell and Bignami. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u20	Senator, I just want to remind you that the House's work is planned by the House and not the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u21	He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a very intense and intense debate on this measure, particularly with regard to Article 1, on the reform of the popular banks; an interesting debate, certainly, although characterized, in some cases, by many statements - we have heard this afternoon too - which do not respond to the facts and, in some way, very far from the reality of today's markets. I would like, then, to take up some of these issues, but with a premise, about which I have heard little or almost nothing. What is happening internationally and at European level do we want to talk or pretend to be a country isolated from the rest of the world? At international and European level, a real revolution is taking place in the organization of financial intermediation systems. It is a revolution - Senator Bonfrisco - precisely to respond to that crisis of creative finance and unlimited leverage that led to the crisis of 2008-2009. Regulators from all over the world, especially those from advanced countries, are committed to the soundness of banks and in particular to the robustness of their capital. Of course, we may or may not agree on these measures, but we cannot deny that the bar is moving ever higher, that the individual banks are judged to be able to cope with the emergency, and therefore the crises, with the key criterion of the ability, in some way, to strengthen and strengthen their capital, just to avoid what has happened in recent years. In this context, I would like to talk about the measure and respond to some of the statements I have heard this afternoon. First of all, I have heard many times about this measure as an attack on popular banks, even talk about dismantling the popular model. I believe that many interventions, including those that preceded me, have made it clear that this government measure does not call into question the value of the model of popular and cooperative banks, but it establishes something important. This model does not apply to banks whose size exceeds a certain limit or which are listed on the stock exchange. It must be acknowledged that the large popular banks, the ones we are talking about, of mutuals have very little. What can be emphasized is that the real popular cooperative banks that maintain this nature can retain their characteristics and therefore will continue to operate. The banks we are talking about and about which the need to amend the statute is established are banks with special features that make them to all effects of the real big commercial banks. I would like to recall these peculiarities: the distribution of dividends and the use of profits, which has a purpose entirely analogous to that of banks and public limited companies; the possibility of listing on the Stock Exchange, which in some way (as we know) concerns most of the banks interested in the reform; their extension on all territories: it does not make sense yet to talk about relations with the individual territory, when we know, and has been remembered through the data - although of course the data we talk about are only those that are useful, while the others are not mentioned - that these banks are present on a national scale. The truth then is one, that is, that of the historical cooperative model, that rooted in the traditions of socialist or Catholic-social origin of the XIX century, to these popular banks only one element remains: the capitarian vote, with everything we know weakens their governance. What the measure tells us, then, is that these larger popular banks would operate and operate much better if they could adapt their governance to the size and function they have actually had for years. It is enough, then, with statements on the end of the biodiversity of our financial system, on the end of the relationship banking, i.e. the relationship with small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, all this has nothing to do with this measure: it is pure rhetoric, if we go to see what we are talking about. Coming to the European context, because we must remember that we are part of the European Union and the euro area, we cannot ignore what is happening in Europe, the fact that a European Banking Union has been set up, that there is a single supervisory mechanism, that there are systemic banks that are somehow watched at European level and seven of these ten popular banks that we are talking about are part of this system. We can, of course, criticise the European Banking Union, and we can also say that this is a measure that needs to be completed and strengthened and that there is still a great deal to be done in this area. However, it is a matter of working in Brussels and Frankfurt, not only with some of the rules and criteria that we have approved with the other countries. It is a fact that what the European supervisory authorities in some way point out to us is precisely the alarm on the sector of these ten popular banks, with particular reference to two aspects. First of all, there is a deterioration of the credits that in some way, from the very beginning of the crisis, has been much faster than the so-called sector of commercial banks and public limited companies. This has an important effect: recapitalisation needs are more relevant to popular banks and will, of course, and presumably also in the near future. There is also a governance problem with regard to the ability to provide new capital for this banking system. It is a fact, among other things, that has already emerged, and I remind everyone of what has happened with the latest European stress tests, with the painstaking pursuit of the last few months in order to be able to somehow fall within those parameters. What we want to do, passing through these banks in the model of public limited companies, is to strengthen them: in some way we want to strengthen their ability to equip themselves with the necessary amount of capital. Of course - and here I come to the problem of transition - the eighteen to twenty-four months phase will pose risks, problems and challenges: there will certainly also be the risk of hostile climbing, as has been said, but there are no definitive and optimal solutions. However, the changes that have been made to the Chamber must be judged positively, among which, as has been recalled, the fact of establishing that the new statutes can be resolved by the same assembly of members who decide the transformation. I also recall the introduction of a clause in the statutes which limits the exercise of voting rights to 5%. It is a measure that can in some way help discourage hostile climbs. Of course, it is right to say that our strategy must not only be defensive, but also offensive, in the sense that we must accompany this process of transformation that will somehow lead to the consolidation of the system of popular banks. Let me conclude by saying that I have heard here that this measure will destroy the economy and weaken the system of credit intermediation. They are statements in freedom, that you do not understand what they do then pin and on what they merge. The truth is that, against the backdrop of the major changes in the European and international credit system, which I mentioned at the beginning of my brief speech, I think it can be said that this measure, together with others who will naturally complete the restructuring of the Italian banking and intermediation system - I am referring to the development of non-bank credit, the self-form of cooperative credit banks, the solution of deteriorated loans - will help to redesign the structure of the credit system in our country, increasing its soundness and solvency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. Mr Guerrieri Paleopti (PD). I shall conclude, Madam President. In some ways the aim is not simply to perch on defence, looking at a not better mythical past, but to accept the challenges that come from the European and international context, responding positively through measures that can strengthen this system of ours. It is for these reasons that I express a positive opinion and I am therefore in favour of the adoption of this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u23	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u24	I call the rapporteur, Senator Moscardelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u25	Madam President, I would like to take a few minutes to focus on a number of points in this debate, which I have followed very closely. I do not want to mention the international and European context, because my colleague, Mr Guerrieri Paleotti, has done it very well and I also pointed out in the initial report. Beyond the global criticism, which is clearly based on real (or instrumental) prejudice on the banking system in which we live and in which Italy and Europe are fully immersed, I stress that on the subject of popular banks and therefore on Article 1, which involves the competences of the Finance Commission, we have had two criticisms. One criticism concerned the attack on the system of popular banks and on local credit, therefore on the greater ability to bond with the territory; the other, the threshold of eight billion. First of all, let us make it clear that this reform leaves our system of cooperative credit banks untouched and intact. This system is the closest to the other European experiences that carry out the same function. It will be a question of stimulating a self-form of the system in order to allow a better networking of these realities, widespread in the territory, which certainly have a territorial link, because they insist on defined territorial limits in which they provide most of their credit and on which they carry out this function. It is therefore a question of maintaining their territorial identity but connecting them on the net for greater efficiency in relation to the possibility of carrying out their functions as effectively as possible. The same system of popular banks, which remains essentially as we know it, concerns those banks, the vast majority, which maintain a territorial connotation and for which the legal form of the cooperative society is therefore justified in relation to the characteristics of connection with the territory, the size and the function carried out. In reality, however, this reform also affects banks that no longer have any bank in the territory, therefore linked to the characteristics that I have just stated. These are banks that now have a national dimension, which play a role involving national and supranational markets, which therefore have a dimension that is no longer the one described in the many very passionate speeches that I have heard and which, however, do not concern these types of banks. Let's talk about the top ten banks. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This includes the very heated debate on the 8 billion threshold, with the passionate request to refer to the 30 billion euro threshold, which involves the supervision of the ECB. From this point of view, even this aspect does not appear to be of great importance. In fact, the difference between the threshold of 8 billion and the threshold of 30 would affect only three banks, one of which has an asset of 27 billion, and therefore is substantially close to the threshold, while the other two have an asset of 14-15 billion euros. As for the rest of the popular banks, one is at six billion, so below the eight threshold, while the rest goes from 4 billion down. Therefore, a choice has been made taking into account the objective of identifying a point of discrimination capable of allowing the application of this reform to a group of banks that, objectively, no longer has the characteristics described above and for which it is therefore not justified to maintain the capitarian vote and excessive stability of the governance system, since instead it is necessary to promote a better efficiency of governance and recourse to the capital market. We can then make an overall criticism of the market economy or the global economy, but I do not think that is the issue. Another aspect that has been very touched is the seeing behind this reform who knows what interests or elements of conspiracy to entrust its choice at the moment, with the Renzi presidency. I want to recall something very trivial: this request for reform, in fact, has been on the table for years, since the Bank of Italy has repeatedly urged it, as well as other institutions, for which it dates back to a period prior to the birth of the Renzi Government. I would therefore urge you to leave aside a whole series of considerations which I find wrong. It is therefore a reform which, from this point of view, is an absolutely positive element, which gives the right legal form to large banks which are to be compared with a reality such as the one we indicated at the beginning of the current debate and which was very well remembered by Mr Guerrieri Paleotti. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Scalia.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u26	Mr President, frankly, I have little to say, because the criticism, if not the whole general debate, has focused on the part of the measure devoted to popular banks, on which Mr Moscardelli has already replied. At the end of the general discussion, I have a substantial consensus, not only of the majority, but also of part of the opposition, at least on the rest of the measure. Colleagues Castaldi and Martelli have expressed a basically positive opinion on the system of innovative start-ups. Mr Martelli challenged the company for the capitalization and restructuring of companies in crisis to be a tool to save Taranto's ILVA. This, from our point of view, is not a criticism, but a note of merit, if the measure under consideration succeeds in producing and introducing an instrument that would help us save the steel industry in Italy and, with it, thousands of jobs. The fact is that this instrument has a general character, aimed at any company - not necessarily industrial - showing temporary capital and financial imbalances, but maintaining adequate market prospects. Senator Pelino, who has essentially contested the facilities provided for innovative small and medium-sized enterprises, their limited scope and the fact that they are only functional to investment in research and development and to represent substantially formal simplifications, is easy to argue that, if so, it would already be so much. Support for research is an essential condition for innovation and development, while the simplification of formal requirements is precisely what our system of small and medium-sized enterprises needs in order to free up its energies. The fact is that this is not the case and that in this measure for innovative small and medium-sized enterprises there is much more: tax breaks for directors, for staff, for collaborators, for those who invest in the share capital of these companies; simplified, direct and free access to the Central Guarantee Fund; specific support for the internationalization by the ICE; crowdfunding, the possibility to raise venture capital from the market through online portals; in short, there is much more. All this makes the sense of the debate that has developed: the fact that the opposition has not raised major objections to this part of the measure makes me conclude by confirming that the text that we are going to convert introduces in our system adequate measures to allow our country to enhance the favourable European economic framework that is emerging, to engage recovery and to engage in stable and sustainable growth. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u27	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u28	Mr President, it is understandable that the debate has focused substantially on Article 1, 99%, but it must be made clear that this measure is not just a bank. The decree-law is very articulated and contains valid subjects for the purposes of the growth and development of the country, as Senator Fabbri and just before the rapporteur Scalia have pointed out this morning: I mention only the portability of the current accounts, the most effective instruments in support of the internationalization of our companies and the Italian economic system, the innovative start-ups, the strengthening of the fund for small and medium-sized enterprises. I urge you not to underestimate all these parts, because they are really useful and there has been a broad consensus on many of them beyond the majority. But let us come to the merits of Article 1. The reasons that led the Government to take the decision to intervene on this matter are well known and discussed. Everyone, anywhere, even those who harshly criticized the measure, acknowledged the need and importance of reform. Well, given also the reminders from the European and national banking authorities and after the examinations made by the European bank to the Italian banks and the forecast of new rules, as Senator Guerrieri pointed out, not only was it necessary, but frankly it was also urgent that we intervene on this matter, not to leave it deprived of a structure of reordering of such a strategic sector for our country. The reason that led us to intervene is very simple and has been remembered in many interventions, by Senator Ricchiuti this morning and by many others: to distinguish between the true popular, mutualistic and territorial nature - I stress territorial - of the popular banking system and the commercial nature tout court that, within the same system, prevailed in the banks, especially the largest. A single example to understand one aspect of the story, obviously, focused on the largest, the People's Bank: with over 120 billion assets, it made its decisions with 11% participation of registered members. I do not demonise this, but I certainly do not hear it say that this is the resounding example of economic democracy. There is no attack on economic democracy and the very nature of popular banks. What's the proof? It only intervenes out of 10, the largest, out of 70. It has been noted that the other 60 banks are small, but are not affected either in nature or in governance and the fact that they are small in such a large number, perhaps also has some relevance to their prevailing mutuality and their attachment to the territory. Secondly, banking foundations are not affected. These days an agreement has been made between the Government and the banking foundations for a system of self-regulation. But why are cooperative credit banks not present in this decree-law? Do we wonder? If there were such a visceral attack on economic democracy, they should be in such a heavy measure, as is being denounced. No, they are out, because they (first of all from themselves and with them) are in action an important and interesting self-form process. Therefore, I exclude any attack on economic democracy; on the contrary, I think we are protecting the real people. And then there's the 8 billion threshold going in this direction. There could be other criteria, which were discussed for a long time, even in the debate in the House. Surveillance stands at 30 billion. The assessment that the Government made is that this threshold, for the Italian popular system, is too high compared to the understanding of the change of mutual nature. There is the criterion of listed ones, of course, but - be careful - there are some listed ones that are not SpA, because they are small. If we had said that a priori the listed ones become SpA, we would have obliged them all regardless of their size. The Chamber also discussed those that have the SpA in the groups. All this has been assessed, but the contraindications that I have now mentioned very briefly have led to the choice of the threshold line. This morning Senator Pelino asked us not to dismiss a future reflection on these issues. Well, I think it's perfectly reasonable to say that these aren't intended issues. Today we choose a solution, not shared, but certainly certain, which is that of the threshold. However, we do not think that the other criteria, such as supervision or listed ones, should be openly excluded from the discussion in the future. It is an open debate and it will remain so. Why the eight billion? Well, I can say very clearly that this solution may not be shared, but please do not say that it has never been explained. It has been explained several times, in public, in the House, in the Commission, in the House. So, it's very clear why. Of course, it may not satisfy and a different opinion is legitimate. The assessment that we have made has led us to a threshold that is placed - as the report that introduces the decree-law says - at an intermediate point between the maximum listing and the minimum listing, considering therefore that that could be a threshold assessment that allows to affirm, even evaluating the territorial distribution, that the banks that are above have somehow exceeded their mutualistic nature. The theme of withdrawal was then addressed. Well, I want to say clearly that everyone knows the reason why the Bank of Italy is very cautious about the problem of withdrawal. It fears, in fact, that an anomalous situation which should occur (i.e. a contemporary recession, especially in the transformation phase) would end up penalising the capitalization of the bank itself. That the proof is only this and nothing else is given by the fact - for example - that, on a resounding case where there is no such risk (i.e. in the event of the member's death), the prohibition of withdrawal has been removed. In that case, in fact, it is quite clear that there is no correlation between the fact itself and the effect that might be on the capitalization of banks. On the other hand, caution, especially in this phase of transformation, wants to avoid a coincidence of recesses causing damage to the same people in transformation. It is clear that all this has developed, but then in the end - as President Cucchetti also recalled - the real question has turned out to be the scalability of the banks, especially with respect to the risk of scalability from abroad. [[Senator Volpi's comments.]] Although we have no objection in principle to the attraction of international capital, we have shared this concern. From this sharing comes the acceptance of the proposal to limit the voting exercise, with the choice adopted by 5%. Well, Senator Fornaro asks if 5%, which the government would limit to twenty-four months, can be extended. But, Senator Fornaro, the decree-law does not limit 5% to twenty-four months, but allows that, for the first twenty-four months, 5% be adopted with a facilitated majority, the same that it serves to transform itself into SpA. Therefore, we give an advantage to the popular banks that transform: they can, that is, adopt the voting limit with an easier majority than the one otherwise needed. Senator Cucchetti, if, therefore, a bank wanted to adopt 5 percent or less - as she has found - even now and not in twenty-four months, it can do with the statutory majorities previewed and not with the facilitated majority, that we consent in this specific case, in order to favor the access to the 5 percent in phase of transformation. Senator Cucchetti, I myself think that the hope, which you referred to this morning, can be shared. The eighteen months allocated to the transformation, which overlaps the twenty-four by 5% with a majority facilitated, I hope they will be well used by the system of popular banks to make the system more mature and more competitive for the challenges that lie ahead. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u29	We greet the students, students and teachers of the Istituto Salvatore Quasimodo in Ragusa, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u30	I note that the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on the draft law before us has been received - and is being distributed - and will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u33	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Forza Italia will vote in favour of the proposal not to move on to the articles for several reasons. Soon a minister will come to the Chamber, but I really wonder which one and this time I am not ironic. I wonder which Minister will come to trust this measure. On the other hand, I hope that it will come to withdraw this measure and, for all the good reasons that have been outlined, to present a bill that can effectively address the issue of banks, popular banks and cooperative credit banks. The measure in question even denounces itself as not having the conditions of constitutionality of extraordinary necessity and urgency, because in its premise it says that the extraordinary necessity and urgency lies in starting the process of adaptation to the banking system and the European guidelines. Nowhere, in the European guidelines, are there any limits proposed in this decree-law, which has been in force for several weeks and intervenes on property rights, on the right to support cooperation and on the right to freedom of enterprise. All these aspects have been dealt with and rules clearly contrary to several articles of the Constitution have been in force for weeks. There are a thousand reasons for saying: let us stop and do a normal procedure; let us really apply the European guidelines; let us look at the examples of other countries. If we talk to entrepreneurs, those who have the opportunity to create jobs, except when the State decides to hire tens of thousands of people, perhaps without competition and going also against the Constitution - usually employment is produced by companies - we understand that companies have some mortal enemies who have reduced employment in our country in recent years. One of these is taxes. Another, even more deadly, is the bureaucratic hiccups, a machine designed specifically to discourage those who want to do things, especially if they want to do it right. The third enemy, perhaps the most important - but we are not the only ones talking to entrepreneurs and possible investors - is the impossibility of having credit from banks. Who in recent years has managed to guarantee credit lines, has come to meet the small and medium enterprises and the needs of the territory? Popular banks. Well, what does this provision do? It storms them and, changing their nature, makes them become like the others: those same others who, for various reasons, in recent years have not guaranteed this fundamental element to our economy. Undersecretary Baretta, explaining some really positive elements, which may be contained in this provision, told us that if the government really had the bad intentions that we attribute to it, it would not only attack the popular banks, but also the others. But one step at a time! It is true that Italy changes pace, but first we expropriate certain banks and then turn them into others. He brings us as an example the largest single bank, which in any case would actually be above the limits existing in Germany. But the Volksbanks and the Landesbanks have been preserved by the German Government in the interests of the German people and companies. It would also require an Italian Government to guarantee the interests of Italian businesses and citizens. Unfortunately, however, we do not have it! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators Bignami and Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u34	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for electronic voting, previously made by Senator Gaetti, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the proposal not to proceed to the examination of NP1 articles by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of trust in the adoption of the single article of bill No 1813 of conversion of Decree-Law No 3 of 24 January 2015 into the text approved by the House of Deputies. [[Laughter from the M5S, FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u36	The Presidency takes note of the issue of trust. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 5.58 p.m. and resumed at 18.12 p.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u37	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on Decree-Law No 3 in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. For the discussion on trust, 20 minutes were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The explanations of vote will follow. The call will therefore start around 7.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u38	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u39	Mr President, with the People's Decree-Law, the Government has decided that capitular voting banks, which exceed the size of EUR 8 billion in assets, are unfit to survive on the global financial markets and contribute to the common good. Too bad the rest of the world doesn't feel the same way. Europe does not think so, because the first 50 capitular-voting banks in the European Union have an average size of more than EUR 120 billion in assets and, therefore, well beyond the threshold of EUR 8 billion, which for our Government represents the boundary between what is possible and what is impossible, between good and evil. Neither does Merkel, because it has decided to recapitalise its large popular banks, Volksbank, publicly, as a fundamental pillar of the social market economy. Ours do not need public recapitalization, but we close them, while we use taxpayers' money to try to share some failed experiences of banks SpA, such as that of Monte dei Paschi. My Dutch, German, Austrian, French and Finnish colleagues, whose economies benefit from the contribution of large capital-voting banks, are wondering what is happening in Italy. Canadian friends are perplexed, who probably have the best financial system in the world, not affected by the crisis, with a model of capitarian voting bank that has conquered more than 40% of the market. It should be precisely the market, consumers and savers citizens, under normal conditions of freedom and democracy, who decide in which model of bank they want to invest their savings. In contrast to what is decided in the other major high-income countries, it is the Government that restricts this freedom with an edict. Too bad that national and international data remind us that, in recent years, the capitarian voting banks, and in particular the popular ones, have paid, in proportion to their assets, significantly more credit to companies and families of the banks SpA, where the latter, stressing the principle of maximization of the profit, today have no more interest in dedicating themselves to a low-performance and high-risk activity, such as crediting, in a highly competitive market. The result of this decree-law will be, therefore, to dry up an important source of credit to companies and families and to leave us alone with a model of bank that, by its nature, tries to sell everything at the counter, less than to provide credit, because we all know that now the banks have become commercial. It is no coincidence that, in the face of this radical contradiction between the pursuit of maximum profit and the imperative of credit, an authoritative commentator of the "Finncial Times" Martin Wolf, has been provocatively asked whether it is not appropriate to return to the public bank. There is no need, much less would be enough, that is to leave alive and strengthen the model of capitarian voting bank, not maximizer of profit, and move towards the separation between business banks and commercial banks, as the major economies with high world income are doing. With the decree-law on popular banks we go, instead, against hand and - as a journalist of the Republic has said, not without irony - how can we expect that the trust practices of the Venetian artisans, who will be examined in some distant overseas capital, will be preferred, with their poor returns (mystery for the bank, of course), to some financial transactions of trading, absolutely more profitable? The reports of many international organisations in favour of banking biodiversity, seriously affected by this decision, confirm that there is no economic or legal justification to support this choice. Biodiversity is crucial because different types of crises selectively affect different banking models, and having diversity and wealth makes systems more resilient. Capitarian voting banks, as shown by economic studies, have less volatility than profits and greater credit intensity over total assets; having less will weaken our financial system, exposing it much more to the risks of new serious financial crises, leaving us with banks dangerously exposed to speculative trading and without the protection - as in many other countries - of the separation between commercial and business banks. We will experience the paradox and mockery of reducing the capacity of our banking system to finance households and businesses, just when the European Central Bank is inundating us with liquidity, hoping that it will eventually fuel credit. The ten banks affected have passed stress tests better than the industry average and have shown that they can raise capital quickly in times of need, because investors look at the quality of a bank and not at the possibility of obtaining control of it. Popular banks, like any bank model, have their merits and limitations and, in order to take care of these limits, there were much more appropriate recipes, relating to voting rules, the replacement of management classes, recapitalisation funds in ways already adopted for the cooperative credit banks system. But above all, the presence of a limit to the freedom of economic initiative is a legal assumption, which will be swept away by the first recourse to the Constitutional Court initiated by the members of the old capitular voting banks. (18.18) (Follows GIROTTO). Therefore, the work of the Government these days will be useless, as confirmed by four illustrious opinions of constitutionalists (Ainis, Flick, Mirabelli and Impostato), who have emphasized how the coup on the popular banks violates seven articles of the Constitution - not one, but seven - and above all 45, which declares that Italy supports and promotes the growth of the cooperative form in economy. When the appeal takes place and the Constitutional Court corrects the applicants, today's wretched decision will prove to be a boomerang for the Government itself, resulting in further confusion, chaos and further streaks among the members of the popular banks. This is what we must absolutely avoid and that we could avoid today if we made the wise decision to put aside the conversion of the decree-law under consideration. History will make sense and allow us to fully understand what has happened in these months. For now, unfortunately, we have the squalor of the chronicle. We still have one last chance not to be accomplices, not to put our signature under what will be remembered as an ugly, useless and above all deleterious page of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u40	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u41	Mr President, we are at the stage of the general discussion on the issue of trust and, therefore, it is worth extending the reasoning a little, even if the time allowed is very short. Gross suffering in millions of euros goes from 119 billion in October 2012 to 183 billion in December 2014. In just two years, therefore, gross suffering in the banking system increases by 50% of those existing just two years earlier. The fact is, therefore, that our economy is suffering. Our economy not only slows to grow, but marks, in official data and not in optimistic estimates, a permanence of depression. Around this issue, all of us would have expected a proper debate on the part of Parliament, in the relationship and in the confrontation with the social partners, with the business system: a debate that is in the responsibility of the Government to activate, support and bring to a synthesis in order to improve the quality of our businesses, to develop our economy, to ensure growth. On the other hand, we are faced with an operation not discussed, but announced and also consistently carried out, in which the necessary condition is identified in the absence of the debate, in the cancellation of the confrontation, in the reduction of the spaces and areas of intervention by both the wider system of enterprises, which does not close in Confindustria, as well as the social system, the trade union organizations and especially by Parliament. Mr President, I think that what we must absolutely prevent, and this is a duty that also concerns your office, that is, the government of this House, because it is not good for the country and does not have positive effects, is the mortification of the debate, the mortification of a search for solutions, which sees all those involved, who are the citizens and their representatives, but who are also the social organizations and the system of enterprises that - as I said - is not limited to the members of the Confindustria alone. Unfortunately, this is not happening. This decree-law, with yet another confidence on a question concerning the country's economy, demonstrates this: it arrives after 50 days, full of constitutional vices; a political vote is held on its constitutionality; after which it goes to sterile discussion, to a merely formal examination of the Commission and, finally, trust is placed. In this way, it is better for Parliament to renounce its existence and leave all political responsibility, including errors, exclusively to those that make up the Government. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u42	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u43	Mr President, first of all, a compliment to President Renzi and his majority for two reasons: firstly, because they have managed to make an urgent measure which is all but urgent, with the complicity of an interim President, perhaps overly complacent, who started this decree; secondly, because they managed in half a day to bring the measure home. With five minutes of explanations of vote, the barracks and puppets are closed, because today the decree-law expires and you have to bring it home. Congratulations to Renzi and congratulations to his majority, a little less to the country that is suffering these angeries perhaps for too long. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We are talking about popular banks to be turned into public limited companies, to be merged, merged and so on. If we go to look at history, both cooperative and popular credit banks are the ones that have resisted the last turbulence of the financial world in the best way and there is a reason. Why have popular banks developed less suffering? For the simple reason that they have a structure with the heads of the directors who know the territory: before granting a loan, when an entrepreneur or anyone who needs funding, those directors know the life, death and miracles of a generation. Of course, you can always make mistakes and run into unfavorable economic situations, but on average it is better to know than not to know. The Basel agreements make sure that the directors of the banks no longer know anything so that, when you go to ask for a loan, you answer a number of questions identified by an automatic system about the possession of certain credentials, property or assets and, according to the answers given, you determine whether or not you are entitled to credit. So what is a director for? What is the use of an assessment or knowledge of an enterprise? It's all automated. Our country might have needed another reform. In recent years it has happened that banks have no longer made credit, but finance, because they earned more to invest in securities, in future, in income expectations than not to lend money. The problem is one and it is simple: those who need money and do not find it in the bank do not have a second way, there is no public or private system, but they must turn to an illegal system! Clearly, what banks had to do basically did not. Dear Renzi, the only necessary reform was to foresee a threat, with a measure that said that banks that do not credit are commissioners. Others must make speculation, others make finance: banks must make credit. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We cannot therefore give our trust to the Government, also because here we have a Premier who speaks about everything, who every morning gets up and tweets about everything; a pity that he understands almost nothing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u44	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u45	Mr President, we are in the context of the debate on the issue of trust, at the end of an important debate which, in the short term, the Senate has known and wanted to hold on such an important issue. I would like to take up some of the issues that have been touched upon, not only in my speech, but in those of far more authoritative colleagues. The question is simple: there is a clear division that is being highlighted in this House between the supporters of economic democracy and those of the financialisation of the economy. The mask falls on the fact that we have witnessed in recent years - from that financial crisis that soon moved on to the real economy and that has come to beat hard even from us - to the alleged attitude of impotence by governments and parliaments, which in reality hides only the inability to understand and understand that in European history and in our country there were and there are, perhaps still for only eighteen months, the cornerstones of the possible reaction to this dramatic crisis that, within globalization, accompanies as a song of death, through the excesses of finance, the fate of the real economy. I am referring to the labour economy, to what in our continent, in our country is still the most important fact to hold on to. We will therefore witness, in just eighteen months, the loss of the legitimate property of people who, with a cooperative model, have associated themselves, organized themselves and play an important role in the economic system: to assist the economy through the traditional commercial bank; not those business banks that kill the economy through finance brought to its excesses. In this decree-law we find echoes of a thought that, frankly, we thought had laid down his weapons after the great disasters caused. In the articles of this decree, in particular Article 1, we find instead, in addition to the expropriation, the transfer of wealth, which from the banks of the territories will quickly pass - as I have already said - to financial intermediaries or business banks that, to the City of London rather than to Wall Street, will decide how credit will be made in our country and who to invest in order to favor one type of economy rather than another. For example, will it still be the manufacturing economy or will it be only the service economy that will be rewarded and valued by that type of credit? In addition, who will guarantee that type of credit in that interweaving, however constitutionally planned, aimed at protecting savings? Are we protecting the savings of Italians? No, with this decree we are giving the savings of Italians to large foreign investors who will certainly make good use of it, certainly not a good use for our country. I also throw away the mask those who still tell us that this decree-law serves to consolidate the Italian banking system. No, this decree, as it happened many years ago with the privatization of public banks, with all the effects that this has produced, has intervened, even within the financial crisis triggered in recent years, on banks that did not need any consolidation. They only needed to be respected in their constitutional prerogative. Someone else, on the other hand, needed the popular banks to be forced to sell their shares in order to be bought with little money and therefore sold out on the international financial market. This is the merit that will be attributed to this Government. We will have the merit of having fought this drift and voted against this decree-law. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u46	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u49	DI MAY (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, it would have been nice if at least at this stage the Government were in the Chamber, not only with the person of the Undersecretary, Pizzetti, always very well present, but at least with those who are competent on the subject. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like for a moment to get out of the technical remarks of the capitular vote rather than the eight billion ceiling and reason for something that I find hard to understand if I still have the right to citizenship in this House. In other words, I would like to talk about politics; and it does not matter whether it is economic policy or political policy tout court. Then I will say that "the way still offends us": I try to use the language of the most illustrious of Tuscans, just to check if I can tune in with a Government that struggles to understand the reasons of the vast majority of Italians, with good peace of all those drumbeaters who cheer in every sector of communication, the most prone of whom sit comfortably in the home of Mother RAI. As I said, the way still offends us, because this new reform is again again a problem of method which has become the problem, that of relations between the Government and Parliament. Even today, as yesterday, it is worth pointing out that this Parliament is not against reforms: we were and agree on overcoming the perfect bicameralism, as we were and agree on the reform of the system of governance of popular banks. However, we are no longer available at the Diktat of Palazzo Chigi on the model take or leave. The President of the Council wants to sing about the laziness of professors who speak of authoritarian drift, but so much so: if we speak about conclusive facts and put them in a row, it is clear that this Government is leading us towards a plutocracy made by the Perotti at the service of large companies that do not love free competition, with at the head a loose hybrid, half prime minister, half secretary of a single party, as the primary of Agrigento teach us. That's right. First there was the reform of the Provinces, with which the only thing that has been abolished is the elections, as if to say: These electoral citizens are annoyance, we make sure that the parties directly choose who will administer the Provinces, that therefore exist and will continue without electoral control to administer public resources, with Renzi always to direct the party-state. Then there was the reform of the Constitution, in which, in addition to reducing - indeed, I would say cancel - the spaces of democracy, with the reform of Title V the Government de facto expropriates the Regions of their riches, as could happen to the Basilicata Region - but I hope not, because, thank God, there will be a confirmation referendum - regarding its resources of water, oil and gas. Then there was the electoral reform, smuggled with the slogan "because Italians must know immediately who won," when instead the literal translation of the Renzi-pensiero is: "because Italians must know immediately that I have already won." [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Campanella.]] Leaving aside anything else, we arrive at the reform of popular banks, always with a typically populistic slogan: There are many bankers and very little credit to households and small and medium-sized enterprises. Here again, the translation is simple: In the popular banks there are the savings of the Italians, the loot is good, let's take them and decide how to invest them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Mixed Groups.]] I very much appreciated the intervention of Senator Cucchetti, who with a great deal of detail has lied to most of the premises that motivate this reform. On a single point I disagree, where, in shadowing unclear and commendable circumstances towards this reform, it suggests not to enter the territory of suspicion. Senator Cucchetti, we must enter the territory of the suspect, indeed: we have the obligation to investigate and know, because, if we do not do so, we then find ourselves with the Incalza and the Odevaie, people who, strangely, are relegated and, after years of honored service, in the post-rebulum of subjective responsibility. Let us be clear, then, and ask ourselves: does the 8 billion bar, rather than the 30 billion provided for in European legislation, serve to save the Etruria People's Bank? On the normative misconception of the decree of urgency, which now characterizes this legislature, with decrees-laws that do not have the minimum requirement of necessity and urgency, as a Constitution would impose - and I stress it towards the newly elected President of the Republic - the reform of the popular perhaps serves to find a solution for the Mount of the Paschi of Siena? Again, it is said of a reform that we have been waiting for for 20 years. It seems strange to me, perhaps I've been informed somewhere else, but popular banks have been reformed - reading it with the same lens of the Government - in the "very far" December 17, 2012, with Law No 121. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]] What did that law say? Introduced significant openings to the weight of the capital, raised the limits to the ownership of the shares doubling them, raised the limit to the possession for the subjects resulting from the aggregation operations, subordinated the administrative rights, including the voting to the possession of a minimum package of shares, has previewed quotas relative to the capital for the exercise of the social rights. In conclusion, Mr President, the reform of the popular banks has been characterised by a vast and most obscure affair, linked to leaks of news and possible activities of insider trading, on which CONSOB has already started an investigation immediately after the approval by the Council of Ministers of the Decree-Law. The Government and the majority, unaware of the critical notes contained in the decree-law, intend to approve a deeply illiberal legislative act, because it limits the freedom of enterprise. But there's more to it. Article 3 of the Constitution has been violated, between banks and cooperatives that are forced to be transformed into SpA and others that are not. The rules contained concern all those companies that exceed, as we have said, 8 billion assets, and we do not understand why the same rule has not been equated with European legislation. Then there is a very delicate question, that of the right of withdrawal: the decree-law intervenes on the right of withdrawal in order to avoid that the reimbursement of the shares can be negatively reflected on the computability of the shares in the supervisory assets of primary quality of the bank. The Bank of Italy has a general authority in relation to all the assumptions of withdrawal. But again: the decree, in addition to the repercussions on the local economies, will destroy the relationship that has lasted for many years now between the popular banks, families and small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, a kind of coup de théâtre, Mr President: Article 7 resurrects the GEPI and state participations as enchantment. Here Renzi's miracle will be accomplished: we will have more state and more public limited companies. I think there is enough to announce my vote against and that of my Group, leaving a different assessment to that part of the Group which will consider voting differently. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI) and LN-Aut and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u50	Colleagues, I greet the students of the Institute of Higher Education (Einaudi-Scarpa) of Montebelluna, in the province of Treviso, who are attending our work from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u53	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to ask President Calderoli to extend to President Grasso congratulations from our Group because, in six days, as President of the Republic, he managed to put his own in this measure on banks, saying that it is urgent and that our country cannot do without it. Certainly, he is also a Nobel Prize in coherence. Today, once again, we have a decree-law and a matter of trust: the Parliament gagged in the worst tradition of renziana, a tradition of the Renzi Government inspired by the other notorious government, that of Monti, a government not legitimized by the people. Decree-law and trust: the classic goddess of these successive governments. This important reform, which should have brought about a hundred and fifty years of history in our country - the popular banks - should have had, in our opinion, a parliamentary process worthy of that history and of Parliament itself. There was plenty of time to deal with the reform with an ordinary parliamentary process, with Parliament's contribution, but also with the legitimate demands of the social partners involved in this reform. Nothing. Closed almost completely. So, President Renzi, if you vote for this trust, yet another confidence. We will not participate in this play; you vote it, with your servants and with your waiters! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti. Comments from the PD Group.]] It's the truth, it's the truth.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u54	Senator Crosio, contain these statements.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u55	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). But this reform does not only weigh on the arrogance of the Government; there is also a moral and perhaps even judicial issue, on which we have asked and will continue to ask for clarification. I refer, if anyone pretends not to understand, to the Etruria People's Bank, of which the Minister for Reforms Maria Elena Boschi is shareholder, the father is vice president and the brother is dependent. SANTANGELO (M5S). It's a coincidence! CROSIUM (LN-Aut). And there would be nothing wrong, if it were not for a small detail: with perfect timing the actions of the Etruria People's Bank, which certainly does not navigate in good waters, rose 66 percent with this operation, while the rest of the popular in the country stood around only 8 percent. A case? We will be told by the Public Prosecutor of Rome, who is investigating, and CONSOB, committed to rebuilding the exchanges of those days. In this case, Mr Renzi, Minister Boschi, we would have expected from you the same clarity and determination used during the problems that led to the resignation of Minister Chancellors in 2013, to - I quote - unclear relations between the Minister and financiers/entrepreneurs. Those are the Prime Minister's words. The Prime Minister also stated that this was a matter of the prestige of the institutions and of the credibility of the reforms. Always you, President Renzi, argued that any position on the reform of justice would have served a suspicious judgment of a large part of the Italians; and added (always his words): The PD must make a solemn promise: that in the face of the rules of the world of economy politics is no longer succubated by the interests of the families and friends of friends, but tries to make a path in which the law is equal for all. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] And good is your Matthew, who loudly asked for the resignation of Minister Chancellors! Political opportunity? Who knows? Do we not want to ask for the resignation of Mr Boschi for political opportunity? This principle is probably no longer valid today. Ah, maybe I forgot that at that time Enrico Letta was still calm, or still wasn't calm. As for you, Minister Boschi, who compared to November 2013 - believe me - seems to us another person, on the same occasion, always in the fight for the control of the secretariat of the PD, ruled candidly, with the smile on the lips that Minister Chancellors had to resign, adding: "There doesn't seem to be any profiles of illegitimacy in his conduct, but he gave the profoundly wrong idea of a system in which only if you know someone can you see your rights protected." And I'd add: your interests, too. Bravo our Minister: as always, it is too easy to do phenomena with the B side of others. TONINI (PD). What a level, congratulations! Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. You could have saved it! CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Even for you, Minister Boschi, it seems that there are no profiles of illegitimacy in your conduct. Apparently, but in moral terms, there's enough. Be serene and we hope that CONSOB and the Public Prosecutor of Rome will do their job. Temporary archived the moral part that concerns you directly, we come to your decree-law. Even here there is little morale. The reform of the popular banks is unconstitutional, discriminatory, superficial and creates incalculable damages, as well as putting at risk 20,000 jobs (data Assopopular). The government sells by decree over one hundred and fifty years of economic history of the country and unconditionally subtracts the wealth they have generated from the territories, throwing to the meal to the great speculative interests solid institutes that have contributed to the economic growth of the country, in addition to the fact of guaranteeing the credit in this moment of deep crisis. We have a different view from that of the Government: for us popular banks are not an anomaly to overcome, for us our banks are a value to protect. Then why are you in such a hurry? This is what Europe is asking of us; it is what Merkel is asking of us once again. Ask Merkel what she thinks about the crack that is in danger of failing in Austria, in addition to the Hypo Alpe Adria bank, with a hole of more than 10 billion euros, an entire region, Carinthia, with the risk of producing a domino effect throughout Europe. It is a scandal that few are talking about and which has already been baptized as the Lehman Brothers case of Europe; and what do you do? With this climate of uncertainty and instability of banking governance, offer our banks on a silver platter to the great international speculators, unscrupulous and unethical people who will pierce our banks, sprinkle them to the bone for the achievement of their profits, and then free them without too many scruples, in the face of our history, our economy and our country. You're irresponsible! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] The bandits, as I recalled before, of the notorious Lehman Brothers affair have undermined the global financial system, with consequences that, even now, even in our country, citizens are paying. These financiers, who would be better defined as high-finance criminals, probably have accomplices in our country, already ready to indulge their greed and ready, like you, to indulge the great international speculative interests. You're representing a nice picture. Between your morality and that of those to whom you offer our banks you make a very nice picture. I think it's Munch's scream. Edvard Munch was the painter of anguish; you are the Government of anguish! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] I conclude with a concern that we cannot hide from the citizens. Dear Italians, soon, when we go to the door of our bank, if they remain open, if we go well - and we do it to say - we will speak German, if it goes wrong, we will speak Chinese. But the thing that annoys us the most, just to stay on the subject, is the image that this Government wants to give to the history of our country, continuing to comply with the will of Europe, creative finance and paper economy. It's an image already seen: that of Lehman Brothers employees with low eyes, shiny eyes and boxes in their hands. This is what you want to deliver to our country! [[Applause from the LN-Aut, Mixed Groups and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u58	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u61	VACCIANO (Mixed). Mr President, I will try to be brief because we are still discussing a measure that has also been presented to the Commission as untouchable and doing so under these conditions does not make much sense. As my colleague Carraro wisely pointed out a long time ago, he becomes the fair of vanities and that's it. This is a measure that contains many elements, some even quite interesting, if we had had time to deepen them. In it, however, the strong pot is in fact represented by the transformation and - I dare say - the dismantling of popular banks. It is, in fact, enough to smile when I hear that only 10 banks are touched at the bottom; it is a pity that, as Mr Martelli also mentioned in his previous speech, 10 banks represent more than 90% of the world of popular banks. So, I don't understand what we're talking about. A measure for which, at every motivation adduced by the Government, there is one contrary that disassembles the theory, starting from the necessity and urgency that would have led to the use of the instrument of the decree, urgency that clashes with the timing contained in the decree itself. Let's remember that there will be the enactment of the operating norms from Bankitalia and, therefore, eighteen months to adapt. The justification given in the Commission on this issue, and reiterated in this House too, seems paradoxical to me: the urgency was to issue the measure. There was urgency for urgency. But I wonder if the urgency is to allow someone a good speculation on the stock exchange. Given the timing to which I mentioned, those provided for in the decree, to grant even just a few more weeks to this branch of Parliament that, it is well to remember, now for months is facing an important cognitive investigation precisely on the Italian banking system, it would certainly have added value to the measure itself, it would have healed the criticalities transversally recognized and it would have avoided to degrade for the umpteenth time the activity of this Senate that insists to exist and work. But perhaps this is just a desired side effect of this Government's way of acting: to highlight the futility of this institution and of those who work in it. An urgency, I said, which does not come from the pressure of that Europe with which people often fill their mouths. Europe, let alone the rest of the world, is not asking us to cut people off. Just see how France and Germany behave towards their popular banks! These are considered to be assets and wealth of the banking system and not a burden to be abolished or dismantled. Without forgetting the Canadian example, with the Desjardins People's Fund, which, as my colleague Mrs Bonfrisco recalled, Bloomberg called the second most solid bank in the world. Then who's asking? The Bank of Italy, which would probably welcome the existence of five banks in the credit system, better if with a single type (all SpA, for example), because, undoubtedly, this would make supervisory tasks much easier. I must say that I do not remember when the Bank of Italy encouraged the transformation of the banking groups Montepaschi and Carige into something else that was not a SpA, even considering the well-known events that involved them. I remember, instead, that the Italian State - therefore indirectly the Italian citizens - had to raise some money (borrowed, for goodness sake) to save the Montepaschi group, not this or that popular bank. Incredibly urgent is also the Authority on competition, which hopes to realize a measure that with competition does just punch! It has been spoken dogmatically of the axiom "too many bankers, little credit". Too bad it is denied by the data (bankscope data, the largest worldwide database available on banking issues), which show how, especially during the crisis, it is the popular ones who have maintained the highest relationship between assets and credit and have the least procyclical credit offer! There has been talk of self-referentiality of the administrative bodies of the people and I believe that it would have been reasonable, even for the people themselves, to start a path that would help to overcome in a shared way the harshness that in some respects can affect their governance in a negative way, in order to make the system of the popular more modern and in line with the current structure of the credit market. We have chosen, instead, the usual path of the act of force which, unfortunately, follows other episodes of this legislature. There has been talk of greater risk of the popular banks, linking the risk factor to the capitarian vote, in open contrast to a wide banking literature that does not highlight any kind of link between the two factors, clarifying instead that the greater or lesser risk of a bank derives from anything else: portfolio diversification, volatility of profits, ease of fundraising, just to give a few examples. Not only that, if we make a systemic risk speech, I would draw attention to the importance of biodiversity in financial markets. In the ecosystem of financial markets, the existence of different kinds of banks is a value, not a limit. In the event of a systemic crisis, it is likely that the parasite, the crisis factor, will more damage some types of banks than others. Here, instead, we go in the opposite direction, we aim for standardization: a flat market, formed in essence only of banks SpA. The emphasis has been on contensibility, as if it were an absolute value in the credit system. Instead, I make my own the words of a former central manager of Bankitalia, Angelo De Mattia: the aim of a bank is not the contendability, but to do well the credit and protect the savings. Is it considered that some popular banks have not met these tasks diligently? Well, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you something: some of the SpA banks have not done so either, and yet it does not seem to me that anyone has proposed abolishing all the SpA banks, first of all because it would be absurd, but above all because the perpetrators always have a name and a surname. In order to sanction them there is a special national supervisory authority (among other things, there will soon also be a supranational one), which, also under the Act of Government No 147, currently under consideration in the Finance Committee, will have all the necessary powers to intervene in the event of improper behaviour. If you go any further, there's the judiciary. If the problem is the competitiveness of popular banks compared to other banking models, then it is the market that decides who has to survive and who has to disappear or change and not already a forced and illiberal act. In a competitive market that is - certainly - not spoiled by irregularities or sub-bank agreements, competition and diversification of supply are an added value that can only bring benefits to customers. I could go further in debunking the many myths that accompanied this decree-law. I could talk about the incredible limitation to the right of withdrawal of members also by way of derogation from the rules of law of the European Union or the esoteric considerations that must have led to the identification in 8 billion euros of the threshold of assets that triggers the transformation of popular banks. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] However, I do not really want to bore you with things you certainly already know and which have been widely repeated here. In conclusion, I believe that this measure will have exactly the opposite effect: further removal of the credit system from the real economy, less supply to the public, less product diversification, less systemic resilience and less capacity to absorb future financial shocks. If the idea was to bring demand and credit supply closer together and make life easier for citizens and businesses, I am sorry, but I believe that your accounts are totally wrong and that, in order to prove that this Government has the numbers to do what it wants, an excellent opportunity has been wasted to value a hundred and fifty years of history instead of erasing them with an act of force. Our vote will obviously be against. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, M5S and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u64	MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, this measure consists of 12 articles. On 11 articles there is a rather broad consensus and we are not talking about things of little importance, because we are talking about strengthening the Central Guarantee Fund, financing small and medium-sized enterprises, start-ups for innovative small and medium-sized enterprises, financing for exports, support for foreign investments coming to Italy; we are talking again about capitalization and restructuring of companies and also about tax benefits on brands and real estate. Then there is the article on popular banks. I believe that good work, which has been done in the House of Deputies, must be recognised here in order to improve and supplement the text which came out of the Council of Ministers at the end of January. However, neither the Members nor the Government have until now the constitutional condition of adopting a law alone and definitively. As long as there is bicameralism, this must be respected and - I add - not only in the form, which is actually respected here, but in substance. The Senate has not been placed in a position to make changes and additions to the measure received from the other branch of Parliament. This condition has not been guaranteed either by the Government or by the Presidency of this House. The eating of this soup or jumping out of the window, since there is a vote of confidence, does not lay down in favor of the seriousness and dignity of the institutions. The People's Area Group loyally supports the Government. It supports this because we do not want to fall back into the situation at the end of 2011; it supports it because we do not forget the electoral signals in 2013 and because we believe that reform policy and support for our productive apparatus are decisive for the recovery. We support him with responsibility, even in delicate passages, as happened last week, with the resignation of Minister Lupi. This does not mean, however, concealing our criticism, abandoning our proposals and our convictions. Let us be frank, then, that the government has been at least too zealous and too hasty on the people. The Renzi Government had and has the authority, the conviction and the motivations to guide in the light of the reform processes alone, to confront the social partners and, possibly, to share its choices with the majority and, in this case, to respect Article 41 of the Constitution and at the same time strengthen the Italian banking system. What we do today and which we support with our vote is in fact a way to protect even more deposits, that is, savings, but we would also like to understand from the Government, in the next episodes, how we protect employment towards Italian families and companies. It has been authoritatively said by the Government that this reform would reduce the number of bankers and increase credit to small and medium-sized enterprises. I do not have that certainty, at least on the credit to small and medium-sized enterprises. I know that we agree with the choice of European regulators, the European Central Bank and the European Banking Authority (EBA) - and therefore Bankitalia - who aim at an objective, i.e. a risk-free banking undertaking. "Without risk" means endless capital gains, from which the need to adopt effective forms of government and a high ability to finance banks; hence, again, the changes to the current discipline of the populars. I am not critical, in principle, of this technocratic choice of the bank without risk, but I would like politics, in Europe and Italy, to take its place, to protect economic democracy or - if you like - the social market economy, to ensure the competitive presence of different types of intermediaries and create virtuous relations between large banks and banks of the territory. We would like to understand from the Government if there is a strategic vision on Italian banks, if it coincides with that of regulators or if we want to guarantee a balance of the system - that is, if we want a banking company that has as its goal, on the one hand, the protection of savings, but also the employment on the territory - and if to make our economy more competitive - and in what way - to the 185 billion euros of gross suffering of Italian banks, in addition to 350 billion euros of deteriorated credits, which put a limit on credit and families. But given to Caesar what belongs to Caesar, let us now speak of the populars. I have heard in this House, from colleagues who have been prepared and whom I esteem, recall, for the people, Article 45 of the Constitution and the constitutional protection of cooperatives. I say straightaway that for me the popular banks are a legal misunderstanding: they are not the cooperatives referred to in Article 45 of the Constitution and are not, however, cooperatives, because it is not enough to vote each other to declare themselves such, but we need the non-speculative nature of the society, the indivisibility and the unwillingness of the assets and the non-reward of the capital. So I am asking you, senators and senators: can a company listed on the stock exchange ever be cooperative? Then, the vote per head becomes a pawn to the capitalist development of that popular bank and can be the screen for individuals or power groups exercising prolonged and uncontrolled control. Therefore, for us the Government is right to dissolve this node, tertium non datur: either public limited companies or real cooperatives. Then, this hybrid form, can this centaur objectively be a competitive disadvantage on the capital market? Banca d'Italia tells us that CET1, i.e. the best quality assets, was reached at the last minute thanks to strenuous capitalization measures by the people. Added to this are the advances on losses 2014, which nobody here mentioned, of the Italian banking system, amounting to about 10 billion, of which 5.2 billion to be borne by the Monte dei Paschi, 500 million by Carige, but 3.7 billion are probably the losses of the Italian popular in 2014. Moreover, being a local bank means that deposits and uses are concentrated to a significant extent in that particular and circumscribed territory (for example, in cooperative credit banks, at least 95% of jobs, and of course of deposits), while the first 10 popular banks have on average branches in 60 provinces, a number close to that of the first three large Italian banks (about 70). So, we're gonna have to defend the assets. [[Call the president back.]] President, I have one more minute. You have also given something more to other speakers who have spoken before me.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u65	You know I'm good if you don't provoke me.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u66	MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). No, I don't. I'll make a point. We will have to defend the Italian heritage, and that Italian will always remain, represented by cooperative credit banks. We will have to preserve the values of cooperation, the proximity to the territory of cooperative credit banks; then we will have to work to achieve this virtuous link between land savings and land use. Finally, the defense of Italianity. The risk of climbing and OPA hostile and totalitarian there is, it is useless to deny it; but I limit myself here, now, in conclusion, to a final observation: if our country wants to defend and improve its own well-being, it must be able to count on a more modern local capitalism, more ready to engage in investments in business and banking intermediaries rather than in real estate - yesterday in Italy, today abroad - or in financial revenues. Because of the two: either we raise the barricades, block the climbs, foreign or Italian, and we decrease the ability to capitalize the bank intermediaries - but of all our companies - or we open and raise the ability to finance with risks that obviously can also become opportunities (we hope with the accompaniment of the Government). We then choose this second option. We vote on the decree of 12 articles; we vote on the government's confidence. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u69	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, today, 24 March, we are discussing the yet another unconstitutional decree-law of the Renzi Government, which is poor and due to expire tomorrow. The decree, so-called popular banks, was assigned to the Senate Finance and Industry Commissions only Tuesday, March 17. We therefore had three working days to discuss a decree that: radically modify the plant of the popular banks; sets certain times for the free portability of the current accounts; authorizes the Cash deposits and loans to the direct exercise of the credit; introduces the category of innovative SMEs; modifies the patent box; changes the taxation of the foreign institutional investors inserted in the white list; increases the allocation of the state guarantees for the enterprises in extraordinary administration; changes the mechanism of the soft financing to the small and medium enterprises; abolishes the possibility by CIPE to issue decisions for interventions on the guarantee fund; establishes a preferential lane for the access to the credit for the enterprises that provide the Ilva of Taranto. It seems to me a few three days to carefully analyze all these things. But perhaps the need and urgency of the Renzi Government was to put the question of trust and force its majority to vote favorably for this decree with the usual threat of early elections. Not only that: in the Finance Committee, at the hearing of the National Association of Popular Banks, we witnessed - as today - the intervention of Senator Luigi Marino, who did not know if his party would be able to modify this measure but would try. We have not seen any amendments signed by you and today we are voting for trust. And what about Senator Azzollini, who gets nervous because some of Forza Italia's amendments have been withdrawn and transformed into a single agenda, but which does not achieve the aim of finding a way out for the People's Bank of Bari? A set of attitudes, more or less lawful, to attract the lobby on duty, transforming every decree-law or bill into a puzzle depicting Harlequin, who is so well with Pinocchio. How do you work like that? And you, my dear Renzi, do not help this Parliament by issuing continuous decree-laws to the limit of constitutionality. I remind you - and I will do so whenever I can - that you only have executive power, that is, you have to follow Parliament's instructions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let me give you a piece of advice: make an analysis of the implementing decrees that have yet to be issued and let your ministers work. It is useless to brag about making laws if they cannot be implemented; as your Minister Mr Boschi has pointed out in this House, quoting Fanfani, 'in politics lies do not serve.' But let's get back to this lovely post-Christmas present. They are known to all the investigations opened by the Public Prosecutor of Rome and CONSOB for abnormal movements of the securities of the popular banks, in particular of the People's Bank of Etruria and Lazio; not to mention the yellow on the presence of Minister Boschi to that Council of Ministers, connected, for family and equity ties, to the People's Bank of Etruria and Lazio, configuring a possible conflict of interest. It would be useful, in order to resolve any doubt and bring back a minimum of transparency in this Government, seen and considered what has happened even in the last few days, that President Renzi, who since the beginning of his mandate has repeatedly used the word "transparency" in his media commercials, without ever implementing it, would publish at least the minutes of the Council of Ministers in question. You have justified, the necessity and urgency of this decree stating that the popular banks for years had to be reformed. Moreover, the Competition and Market Authority reported this need in July 2014, as well as the Bank of Italy in April. They suggested regulatory changes, no imposition; all in order to favor the full contestability of the ownership structure and the replacement of the social structure. It should be noted that in the Note of the Service studies there is no reference to the need for transformation into SpA. Moreover, stated that popular banks must be more competitive and attractive, raise capital and grant more credits to customers and thus restart the national economy. Perhaps, however, you have missed the analysis of the last three years. In fact the popular banks in the last three years have realized increases of capital for beyond nine billion euros, without need of some decree-law. They have seen their supply increase by more than 18 percent, equal to 60 billion euros, with an increase in the absolute number of customers of 6 percent, equal to 700,000 units. As noted by the Association of Craftsmen and Small Enterprises in Mestre, in the three-year period 2010-2013, i.e. in the midst of the economic crisis, popular banks increased by more than 15% the credit granted to their customers, while the other banks, during the same period, decreased the amount of their loans by about 5%. Have some popular banks lost their initial spirit? Has their cooperative nature and proximity to the territory changed? Let's regulate them better, but we don't make all the grass a bundle. Do you think it takes three days to assess and analyse all the consequences these changes to the single bank text will have on our popular banks? Perhaps we did not want to ascertain the true impact of these changes, because the real intent of the decree-law in question is to put some of our popular banks in the hands of financial speculators, or perhaps save others. In fact, the obligation to transform into SpA will affect only the popular banks with an asset greater than eight billion, accounting limit without any explanation. In fact, the CRD IV Directive (related to European banking supervision) classifies banks with assets of between 3.5 billion and 30 billion as intermediate banks and those with assets of less than 3.5 billion as minor banks. There would be many other things to say and we are only in article 1 of the decree and the time at my disposal is about to end. I therefore conclude with the last two articles, the 8-a and 8-b, two more pearls of wisdom of this Government. With the 8- bis, CIPE's ability to decide specific directives to ensure the widest access by SMEs in the Mezzogiorno to assistance from the Guarantee Fund is eliminated. With the 8-ter instead it is recognized the priority of investigation and deliberates for the access to the Guarantee Fund, for the requests made from those enterprises that supply goods and services to the Ilva of Taranto. In other words, on the one hand a preferential route is cut for the whole of the Mezzogiorno, on the other hand it is established only for the ILVA of Taranto. I would also like to point out that Tuscany cannot access the National Guarantee Fund for SMEs, but that does not matter to Mr Renzi. This government shows once again that it has double standards, a vision of Italy at the limit of schizophrenia and the 5 Star Movement will not give confidence to a Government that is constantly incoherent and incapable. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u72	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Article 1 of Decree-Law No 3 of 24 January 2015 co-actively transforms public banks into public limited companies with assets of more than eight billion and obliges those with assets below this threshold not to exceed it, under penalty of forced transformation into SpA. Even in popular banks with assets below the 8 billion threshold, and which would therefore remain cooperatives, the transition to the single model of public limited companies is very facilitated, subtracting members from the determination of the required majorities and drastically reducing the quorum shareholders for the transition from cooperative form to SpA, even outside the cases of capital strengthening needs. First of all, it is not clear how widely Parliament's work has emerged, what is the need and the urgency of intervening with a decree-law on popular banks, all of which, moreover, have successfully passed the examinations of the European Central Bank. Equally incomprehensible is how we have come to identify the threshold of eight billion, which is not reflected in any existing legislation, primary or secondary, national or international. Our Constitution does not provide for any limits to cooperation, on the contrary, I would dare to say that it encourages it when it suits some people: at least, if it was meant to indicate a dimensional threshold, the only one with some degree of objectivity is the one provided for by European legislation for banks supervised by the ECB, amounting to 30 billion. This limit would also have the additional advantage, unlike the one chosen, of allowing the remaining popular banks to further consolidate and, above all, to continue lending without having to abandon the cooperative form. In this respect, it seems paradoxical to me that we are going to reform - but it would be more appropriate to say delete - precisely the sector of popular banks than historically, but especially in recent years of a crisis increased by large banks - not by small ones - have helped more and have been closer to small and medium-sized enterprises and families. Few and eloquent data: in 2014 popular credit banks, which employ about 82,000 people, provided jobs to small and medium-sized enterprises for over 148 billion euros; the flow of new financing to small and medium-sized enterprises increased by about 30 billion euros; to exporting companies 42 billion euros were paid. The market share of popular banks in predominantly small and medium-sized economic systems is 66% compared to 33% of the rest of the system. Every year the devolve category in support of the reference territories about 140 million euros; in the course of the crisis the donations that the popular banks have paid to the local communities amount to one billion euros. This radical reform that eliminates the characteristics of the people - precisely those that have allowed them to be privileged lenders of small and medium-sized enterprises thanks to their knowledge and proximity of the territories - will risk to produce the opposite effect and that is to say a credit crunch towards small and medium-sized enterprises, benefiting only speculators and with very serious negative repercussions, even from an occupational point of view. Once the cooperative structure of the popular banks has been eliminated, these will be predictably easy prey to speculators, who will not be concerned, neither to finance families and small and medium-sized enterprises - more risky - nor to maintain current employment levels. For this reason we believe that, in the interests of workers, families, our small artisans and entrepreneurs and of the country as a whole, the reform of such a fundamental sector for both the real economy and employment, should not take place through this decree, but through a shared reflection, in order to protect its proven value, especially in these difficult years. Incresive situations concerned the Italian, European and international banking system and involved internationally renowned rating companies, as well as a very long list of global financial and banking institutions: Lehman Brothers, Deutsche Bank, RBS, Societé Generale, JP Morgan, Citigroup. These were the factors of crisis and destruction of savings, certainly not the popular banks of the territory. International banks themselves have been the protagonists of the misdeeds of the last decade, entering the capital of popular banks and gaining control of them. Scientific and empirical evidence shows that international financial institutions only intervene for speculative purposes. On the other hand, popular banks have not only never created problems, but have been called upon to solve them. The instrument of the decree-law, which would like to be launched with the requirements of necessity and urgency, in this case was a real act of will. This was confirmed by the opinions of authoritative constitutionalists, among all the President emeritus of the Constitutional Court, Cesare Mirabelli, already mentioned several times, but he is not the only one. There is a conflict with Article 77 of our fundamental law, but there are, as you have pointed out, the vice president of our Group, Senator Bernini, also violations of Articles 47 and 70 of the Constitution. It pays attention to the collection of savings, it intervenes unevenly on different issues, not to neglect then the suspicions of speculation that we are responsible for who, having been able to know before others the contents of the decree, could have acted with unscrupulousness on the financial markets. To this end, the Milan and Rome Public Prosecutors have taken action; CONSOB is carrying out investigations; financiers have been called into question very close to the Presidency of the Council, as we all know. Not to forget the events, already mentioned in this debate, of the Bank of Etruria, at whose summits there were people very close to leading representatives of the Renzi Government, who come, ask for confidence and do not even have the humility to wait to get it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] They could at least give us this grace. After the events of Monte dei Paschi di Siena Tuscany is still the epicenter of disturbing banking events. Someone might have gotten rich. We will have to wait years and years to know the truth, as is happening thanks to some judicial investigations for speculative events on the financial markets of 2011, which also had repercussions on the political and democratic events of this country, on which we ask a committee of parliamentary inquiry. In other countries the protection of the local banks has been exercised decisively. We are referring to Germany, where the 30 billion limit, which we in vain proposed for Italy, has been respected. We should talk a lot more about the Etruria Bank and so many other things about who today in the government should explain and justify. We are talking about modernisation with this measure. In fact, the economy of the territories is mortified. A credit system that has been more attentive to the needs of craftsmen, families, small and medium-sized enterprises is penalised. It promotes the colonization of our credit system. Besides, we're a country for sale. The Chinese take Pirelli, the international banks have conquered our main credit institutions and still others are ready to curb the popular banks. A reform of the system had to be done, but it had to be discussed calmly and thoroughly through draft laws. We violate European parameters, we act with the usual method of decree-law and trust, preventing an in-depth and serious analysis of complex events that, in the national interest, should be examined with different timings and modalities. The obligation to transform popular banks strongly alters its nature. The aim is to violate the freedom of economic initiative and conflict with the social function of the enterprise. Once again, in the presence of a form of organization of the economic initiative, constitutionally relevant and protected in the cooperative form, the balance with other interests must, however, meet the requirements of proportionality and adequacy of interventions of this nature. The Constitution affirms economic freedom and excludes, on the other hand, the model of a planned economy. In conclusion, fellow senators, government representatives, as Cesare Mirabelli also noted, the limit of 8 billion is arbitrary and finds no sharing in European rules. As Professor Ainis argued, the decree-law, in the part of reform of popular banks, is spoiled by unreasonableness and irrationality. And also Flick, a government representative with leftist majorities, in his version of the jurist has cut off its contents and mode. I will conclude, therefore, by saying that we will vote against confidence, we will vote against yet another tear from the Constitution, we will vote against a President of the Council more than Etruria than Tuscany, we will vote for the freedom of credit, enterprise and the economy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u75	Rossi Gianluca (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I shall confine myself to a few considerations, taking into account what has been heard in the debate in this House. With regard to the first, it is clear that the discussion focused mainly on the first article, the one on popular banks. However, I would like to highlight the other measures contained in this text, which are equally important. This is real support for small and medium-sized enterprises, exports, internationalisation, start-ups and the portability of current accounts. Strengthening of the Central Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, New Sabatini, patent boxes and credit funds are just some examples of the desire to outline a first phase of industrial policy freed from the logic of the emergency and the contingency of the individual crises of sector or company, to boost competitiveness and, therefore, the employment of the country. To come to Article 1, there are essentially two reasons why government intervention is justified. The first: is there a dimension beyond which a bank acting in the market is different from a bank having a territorial vocation? Many answers can be given to this question, but what seems more appropriate to me is that, above a certain size, the very nature of the bank, although originally popular, turns de facto into a fully market bank, destined for wider competitions, more sophisticated capitalization processes and, therefore, a much wider and widespread management of credit. The second reason is that the delays of the self-reform of this system, repeatedly highlighted by all in these years, in the long run have made it necessary to intervene like that undertaken by the Government. From this point of view - as the Undersecretary Baretta has said - the impulse of self-form of cooperative banks must be observed, which is the confirmation that there is no attitude contrary to economic democracy or participation. These two elements, i.e. the assessment of whether there is a change of nature above a certain size, on the one hand, and the fastest possible relationship to the accumulated delays, on the other hand, are the cornerstones of the measure. They can be questionable, but they're not unconstitutional. It is legitimate that there are different opinions, but until now the debate has focused largely on the threshold of 8 billion, proposing others as an alternative, but never failing the existence of a problem to be solved. This threshold shall be established on a consolidated basis for banking groups and shall be calculated on the basis of the total assets. The first criterion is consistent with the principle of neutrality of banking discipline with respect to the individual or group structure of the undertaking. The second, with reference to the total assets, is consistent with the latest developments in financial regulation, which saw this variable together with others as an indicator capable of covering the complexity of the intermediary and its relevance to the stability of the financial system. The numerical threshold has the merit of being clear and objective, for the benefit of legal certainty. The value of 8 billion, moreover, appears reasonable in the light of the data, updated to the middle of last year on the size of the popular banks. It can be seen, in fact, how there is a net jump between the top ten with assets at least double digit - trying, again here, to give real data, and not the wrong ones that I heard in the general discussion with reference to 160 billion - and the remaining 27 popular banks. The group of the ten largest includes the seven people who are subject to direct supervision of the single European system and all listed ones. The legal threshold therefore appropriately grasps the distinction between the two dimensional classes. Moreover, during the proceedings in the Chamber, as has been pointed out, improvements have been made, such as the approval of the statutes, the 5% right threshold, with a lower majority than that provided for by the civil code, and the twenty-four months. The ratio of the measure, therefore, lies in the incentive to act quickly, and not only to promote better control, but also to develop the elements that are lacking in our system to say mature. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the Government has put in place a step forward in improving the Italian financial system, no financialisation and no attack on economic democracy. The reform, in addition to facilitating the use of the capital market by popular banks, will also improve its management in the interests of the whole national economy. Fearing injuries to the cooperative spirit and to the close bond with a territory, in the case of large complex banks, is not only anachronistic, but is in contrast to the reality of the facts and it is useless precisely to force the data at will. Negative consequences for employment, moreover, would come from keeping institutions in a condition of capital and management fragility, and certainly not from a corporate structure that can, on the contrary, facilitate the search for efficiency and economies of scale. More than 20,000 jobs at risk! The approval of the reform is, therefore, desirable and not because international markets impose it - although we read, in today's hearing in the Finance Committee of CONSOB Vegas, a substantial green light for reform, with the explanation of the reasons - but because common sense suggests it. Our economy, our companies need efficient, patrimonially sound banks that are at ease in the international market; banks that are able to accompany, indeed to push for the dimensional growth and internationalization of the most dynamic companies, growth on which much of our future depends; banks that live in competition and are able to favor it. In this sense, while I understand the embarrassment of those who have often used banks for other purposes, I am amazed at the behavior of some other political forces, how surprising it is that they want to confuse governance reform with the role of business and families. We will still need small and cooperative banks, who can interpret the best values of communities that the territories can express, not harmful and fake localisms, at the service of the fabric of savers and businesses that remain small; but they too will have to work to find organizational solutions that make them healthier and more efficient. The debate has seen a often harsh contrast, on legitimate but different positions. I just want to make a personal point to myself and to all my colleagues, particularly to Senator Crosio: there is a style that should concern the whole of Parliament, a majority and a minority, beyond the confrontation, the political dialectic and the merit of the issues. [[Applause from the PD Group]] For these reasons, Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Democratic Party's Group on confidence and the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u76	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u77	I refer to the vote on the single article of bill No. 1813 of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 3 of 24 January 2015, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator, called by the Senator Secretary, will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. The Presidency has accepted, subject to proven needs of a physical and institutional nature, some requests to vote first. As for all the others, I consider it regrettable that almost 10% of the members of the Senate require to vote in advance, especially when people are always the same, namely that the Senate is extremely bad. Everyone else will vote on their turn. [[Applause]] The senators will vote first: Napolitano, De Petris, Di Giorgi, Valentini, Pinotti, Della Vedova, Zavoli and Fedeli. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Mastrangeli is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Mastrangeli. BERGER, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of the voting operations the Presidency takes over - at 7.45 p.m.) The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Amati, Angioni, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Cassano, Casson, Chiavaroli, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Giacomo, Compagnia, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Favero, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Fincchiaro, Fissorini, Fornaro, Fravezzi, Franzo Gatti, Fabbari, Favero, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Fincchiaro, Finsorini, Finsorinisorini, Fornari, Fornaro, Fiero, Fiero, Franzio The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Aracri Barani, Barozzino, Bencini, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bignami, Blondo, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Bruno, Bulccarella, Bulgarelli Caliendo, Campanella, Cappelletti, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Cervellini, Cioffi, Cotti D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pin, De Siano, Di Maggio, Donno Endrizzi Fattori, Fazzone, Ferrara Mario, Floris, Fucksia Gaetti, Zumbaro, Gasparri, Gibino, Giro, Giro, Giotto Lezzi, Liuzzi, Longo Eva Malan, Mandelli, Mangili, Marin, Martelli, Martelli, Matteoli, Mauro Giovanni, Mauro, Mauro Mario Marios, Gibino, Giro, Giro, Giro, Giotto, Giro, Giro, Pizotto Lezzi, Giotto, Mazzo, Mazzolini, Mazzolini, Mazzo, Mandoli, Mandorini, Liberini, Liberini, Mino, Mandolini, Molinos, Molino, Mino, Molino, Molino, Molino, Mino, Molino, Molino I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 1813 of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 3 of 24 January 2015, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 247 Senators voting 247 Majority 124 Favorables 155 Contrari 92]] The Senate approves. All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 3 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u80	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I make a brief speech at the end of the sitting to remind the almost 15-year-old boy who died in Monza this weekend. One Sunday morning, a day of celebration in which children's sports activity is always supported by their parents, a boy's dream, who was going to play a game with his friends, broke because of an accident probably caused by a street pirate who, after the combined disaster, escaped; although the latest press reports say that he was constituted, while admitting partial truth. It will then be who is competent to indicate the responsibilities of the facts. I would just like to draw the House's attention to the undeniable need to establish the crime of road murder, as I have seen from the work of the competent Commission today. It is obviously necessary to tighten the penalties and to make a reasoning about who, although he has committed such heinous murders - I already want to start calling them that - the next day can move freely with his driver's license and probably propose the same dangers to those who, on the other hand, accompany their son, on a happy day, to a ball game, to a moment of carefreeness. The whole House needs to think about this. We are probably on the threshold of the arrival of this measure in this House, and I really would like to see the necessary and appropriate sensitivity to address a subject that, unfortunately, too many times, we read on the news and then we all agree. The Senate will have to make decisions and will do so, as usual, in a correct and precise manner. However, I wanted to remember the poor dead boy who, while his mother surely reminded him to be early because then he went to lunch and invited him to study in the afternoon to face some questions of the week, saw his dream broken as a young man on a spring morning. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u81	Thank you, Senator Mandelli, for reminding us.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u82	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-415.ana.u83	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 25 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.33 p.m.
