ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on the reorganisation of central and territorial public administrations and on the reform of the rules of public employment and management, to which the Minister for Simplification and Public Administration, Mr Madia, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us now turn to questions on the reorganization of central and territorial public administrations. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u6	LO MORO (PD). Minister, we are used to seeing you in this House and also to speaking with a mutual listening capacity. I will try to ask questions and wait for answers, but I will keep the tone we are used to. On the specific issue, a very valuable element of the reform that this Parliament has launched, and which you have strongly wanted, will lead to a regime which will ensure that the citizen's interlocutor is unified on the ground. This, according to all of us, is a valuable element that had already brought from the beginning a problematicity in itself. It is clear that it will be necessary to make the uniqueness of the person representing the State in the territory compatible with the competences required in the various subjects. Specifically, entering this topic pending the implementing decrees, the question is as follows. On the Italian territory there is definitely the immigration emergency, but there is also the emergency organized crime, so there is the need to strengthen the responses on the territory. As a Commission, we have seen this in the survey we are conducting, also through our knowledge of habits and of what is happening abroad: we have been to France and Austria and we have seen the criticalities of those territories and also ours. What is certainly evident is that there must be a stronger response from the central state and that response can only pass from the peripheral offices. Therefore, in this design that we continue to share, how will it weigh the need to have a more concrete and stronger answer on the territory to these questions? How do we adapt the unique model, which will obviously have to cover the whole of Italy, with this need, which is more specific in some territories rather than in others?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u9	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, the burden of bureaucracy is pointed out by many entrepreneurs as the main obstacle to the emergence of new businesses and business initiatives and therefore jobs. Questions, questionnaires and reports addressed to other public offices occupy a significant part of the working time of the same staff of the public administration, in particular in the municipalities, for example in compliance with the rules allegedly aimed at combating waste and corruption. These rules are always included through the law with the wording "without additional charges for the State", however the burden is not in cash, but in time of the public administration that is taken away from other commitments. Is there a study to ascertain how much of the working time of the public administration is devoted to internal compliance and how much instead to the real service of the citizens? What does the Government intend to do to put a limit on the spread in almost every law of new authorizations, relationships, overlapping controls, limitations and similar burdens on citizens, businesses and public offices?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u12	CRIMI (M5S). Minister, the subject of the reorganization of public administration brings with it many problems that weigh on the shoulders of citizens and operators. A particular area is the area of justice. An employee from the court in Torre Annunziata wrote to us - civil section. I read his words: After the amalgamation of so many sections detached in a single citadel that has provoked for employees the expense of hours and money, how do you intend to solve the painful crisis of the lack of chancellors and assistants? There are no salesmen and you are forced to carry very heavy falcons. Computerization is completely lacking in adequate means and the telematic process is causing further disservice due to the large amount of data. With all the inconveniences for the users, forced to take kilometers and kilometers with the traffic and the lack of public transport, the disaster is total. These are the words they wrote to us. How does the Government intend to resolve the many inconveniences that have been determined, in particular through the reorganisation of the Dicastery of Justice, and how does it intend to implement the computerization of the judicial offices, also in order to overcome the multiple criticalities that are reported in many courts with regard to the telematic process? What programmes have been drawn up for the judicial organization, whose staff, besides being deprived of any prospect of progress, like all other members of the privatised public employment, and the fact that it must be considered - so to speak - endangered by the lack of turnover since 1996, unlike the other administrations is lacking in organizational positions and any other form of development and is also substantially considered (in an unacceptable way) as a pure and simple ancillary reality of the judiciary? Again with reference to the Ministry of Justice, in view of the specific skills required in this field and in view of the inclusion of staff from other administrations on the move, is there an extraordinary plan for the training of such staff and the allocation of the relevant funds or will be, as always, left to the good will of the employees already in service, who will have to divert their time to devote to such activity, causing an immediate decline in the quality of the services offered to the citizens? Finally, Minister, as early as December 2014, we had denounced the fact that simple and economic redundancies following the abolition of Article 18 of the so-called workers' statute would also apply in the public sector. You said that the abolition of Article 18 would not affect the dismissal of public sector workers. Now it is the Court of Cassation that gives us reason, leaving us no more doubts of interpretation and dropping all the assurances of the Government on the non applicability of the jobs act to the state. What answers do you give to workers on this issue?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u15	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Minister, in the reform of the public administration a restructuring of the prefectures is planned, which is to be used in a combination, in the territorial office of the State, of the services related to the fire department to the police stations and the prefectures themselves, thus unifying offices, men and means distributed in neighboring territories, and which often have different characteristics that require organization, organic, means and methods of differentiated and well-specific interventions. We would like to know first of all the size of the cuts and the amalgamations, and if the so-called method of linear cutting is envisaged or if instead the differences and the peculiarities of the different territories, endowed to date with peculiar garrisons, that presuppose, therefore, a percentage cut, and not linear, of the services and of the staff, of the means and of the seats currently dislocated in territories that have objective specificity. This is to clearly meet the different needs and needs to provide the services in an optimal way. In particular, we would like to know if it is envisaged, as a guiding criterion of the restructuring phase, also the discomfort suffered by the peripheral areas, with the related difficulties of management of the services, thus considering the possibility of differentiated solutions - to which we hope you will meet - for example, for territorial realities with particular orographic conformations or for territories characterized by mountain areas or by areas bordering with foreign countries.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u18	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Minister, public administration is the front on which the main battle for efficiency and savings must be fought. The average estimated waste rate is of the order of 20-25 percent; which means that if you adopt incisive practices, you could really save many billions a year. The waste of public administration cannot and must not be attributed solely and exclusively to pathological situations, but also, in normal situations, to management of administrative action which is not optimal, or rather not professional. The reform of the League's desired fiscal federalism marks a turning point which contains a renewed corpus aimed at defining a multi-level finance, which declines in a new way the relations between the State, self-government and the European Union, in order to ensure a uniform and coherent coordination of public finance. In order to be able to cut spending selectively, however, it is necessary to respect a basic principle, namely the identification of standards and the consequent application of standard costs. The shift from historical spending to standard cost will direct the policy of each administration towards a new meritorious logic and avoid the known inefficiencies of the past. It is therefore necessary to activate a circuit of responsibility, facilitating the transparency of spending decisions and their reallocation through a full and completed transition from historical expenditure to standard cost-making. We therefore ask you, Minister, how you intend to take action in order to foresee the systemic application of the identification of standard requirements and the relative application of standard costs to all our public administrations.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u21	Mr Bruni (CoR). Minister, with this intervention we intend to ask how the Government, following the entry into force of the Delrio law and subsequent acts, and the combined arrangement resulting from the various cuts that have been made for the Provinces and the various public administrations - cuts that have increased further, as they are assumed by the Stability Act still under scrutiny by the House - intends to ensure the maintenance of those exclusive functions reserved to the Provinces. This is also in the light of the remarks and concerns raised, last but not least, by the Union of Italian Provinces, which has issued an alarm with a letter addressed to all Members of Parliament that, after the first months of 2016, it will not be able to guarantee the functions assigned to those bodies. In particular, this concerns safe and accessible schools, roads that guarantee the needs of mobility and the care of our increasingly fragile territories. It therefore wonders how the Government intends to act in order to give a solution to the problem of the financial stability of these institutions already struggling with the difficult transition of its employees to other administrations, which proceeds slowly and with considerable uncertainties for the life expectations of the employees themselves. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Madia, Minister for Simplification and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u22	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for the opportunity to clarify some important aspects at this Question Time sitting, also in view of the fact that in recent months we are implementing the delegation provided for in Law No 124 of 2015, and that therefore many of these points will be implemented precisely in the legislative decrees that will come to the attention of the parliamentary committees after the passage to the Council of Ministers. Law No. 124 started from the very need to change the perception that the citizens and businesses of our State still have today, often considering it in their daily lives and in their entrepreneurial activity more as a disorganized burden that tends to sanction for a mistake committed, perhaps for excess of complication (and here I respond to Senator Malan), rather than help to avoid that error. I believe that it is important to frame every legislative decree implementing the reform as a piece that must change the perception of citizens and businesses in considering the state not as a brake, but as a driver to the exercise of individual rights and opportunities, therefore to investment, growth and development. This is to have, at the end of the implementation and implementation of this reform, a country where it is easier to live, work and do business, in the sense of creating the enterprise but also of being able to follow it daily and to grow. In this respect, I think it is important to assess how Law No. 124 acts on several aspects. First of all, two aspects mentioned in two questions, that of Senator Malan and that of Senator Crimes, that is the amount of different authorizations that today are in our country. In order to do the same, often in each of the 8,000 municipalities ask for different permissions, they give the possibility to the citizen to ask for permissions through disparate, non-standardized forms, which sometimes do not need express authorization and provide the possibility to do so with the SCIA, therefore with certified reporting of beginning activity, except then request together with the SCIA many other permissions. It is in this jungle that we move with an important part of delegations, ranging from the Conference of Services (legislative decree that we will bring to the Council of Ministers before Christmas), to the delegation that must once and for all clarify what can be done with certified indication of the beginning of activity and what instead needs express authorization, passing through a standardization of the authorizations, for a single form and for a single point of contact between citizen, enterprise and administration, so that the whole jungle of authorizations is simplified. I would stress that we do this without introducing new legal institutions. In this reform, and even more so in the important implementation actions that we carry out on authorisations, we do not introduce new legal institutions, but, after a careful confrontation with citizens, businesses and the different territorial realities, we act profoundly changing the blocks that have been in the current legal institutions and in the current mechanisms of authorisations to ensure that we no longer remain hostage to uncertainties due to excessive complications. The other aspect strongly linked to this - among other things, these are decrees that we will first bring to the Council of Ministers - is linked to computerization in general, intended for public administration not as one of the instruments, but as the main instrument to make it more competitive and democratic. Yesterday, Minister Orlando released a series of data, Senator Crimi, from this encouraging point of view, because they mark an improvement: after years, many years, in which nothing was done about computerization, we have data that mark an improvement. Of course, change cannot happen overnight: it is a laborious process of modernisation and change of practices within offices, but it is important to note that there is an improvement in data and above all that there is a commitment of all resources. These are additional resources that we have put at national level, important resources that there are in the justice part in the PON governance, which will all be with certainty immediately put in this project of change of the country. I believe that a major change is taking place. Before, Community programming and, more generally, the use of resources was made in a jagged way: projects were chosen only after the arrival of resources. Today we reverse the approach: we already have a project of change and in this project, all the more so, the computerization of justice is a priority and all the resources are used for the implementation of this project of change. I add, and I move on to another question put by Senator Crimi concerning the organizational part and then I also come to the right question posed by Senator Lo Moro, that the organization and simplification of the organization are fundamental in order to be able to simplify the relations between citizens and between citizens and administrations. Simplifying also means being able to clarify the competences between levels of government and not multiplying the levels of government with overlapping functions. We, in these days, are implementing the Delrio reform also in the part relating to staff and the people who no longer have reason to work in the Provinces, since the Delrio law has limited its functions, are moving to the offices where there is need for a greater staff, where there is need to have more workers to serve the general interest that is being carried out in that administration. Concretely, just these days, the Provinces' employees are moving into the gates, i.e. they are going where we have long known that there is a need for more staff and more workers to ensure an important service for the citizen. The implementation of the Delrio reform, precisely because it is going forward and is going well (underline that we are carrying out concretely the greatest mobility process in republican history) means that the Provinces, even with the intervention contained in the law of stability now under discussion in the Chamber of Deputies, have the resources to carry out the functions that the Delrio law assigns to them today. In this organizational simplification between levels of government, but not only, there is the fundamental point emphasized by Senator Lo Moro. I will never end by repeating that the simplification of the relations between administrations and between administrations and citizens serves to give citizens a better answer, first of all that answers and that they do not leave the citizen hostage of offices that do not communicate with each other and that, blocking each other, deny an answer to the entrepreneur, deny a response to the citizen. Therefore, throughout the operation of reorganization of the state on the territory that we carried out in the process of implementation of Law No. 124, we avoided any intervention on prefectures that was an intervention of spending review, we avoided, that is, the approach that linked the representative body of the state on the territory, and therefore a fundamental garrison for citizens, to savings needs. Every action will, on the contrary, be marked by a greater presence of the State, a State that can be found for the citizen because it is not said that many and too many offices mean more State. Today, often, many and too many offices are translated into a state that can't be found for the citizen, so the certainty I can give to my colleague Lo Moro is that the implementation of this important part of the delegation will only serve to give more state, as well as a more efficient state to citizens and businesses. With regard to the redevelopment of public spending, I think it is important to stress a figure that was released yesterday: Italy gained eight positions in the international ranking on transparency. Why do I refer to transparency? Among other things, there are also the reasons why Italy has climbed in this ranking, I am referring to a series of interventions for the promotion of some important websites, such as "OpenExpo2015", "Opencantieri" and "SoldiAdvertising." I believe that there is no better policy of selective redeployment of public expenditure on transparency. Transparency corresponds in fact to the widespread social control of citizens, who immediately are more than standard costs, because they control, compare and if ever denounce if some services cost more in some reality than others. In this sense, I stress that the portal "SoldiAdvertisers" has been enriched with state data and so today we have a website that has opened the management of public resources, from the municipalities to the state. Finally, I would like to mention Article 18 of the so-called Workers' Statute and the jobs act in the public service. First of all, I believe that the decision of the Constitutional Court which has been widely discussed in recent days should be read in more detail. This ruling states that the worker must be reinstated, but, beyond the individual pronunciation (there may indeed be others and we are the legislators), I repeat what I have always said: we do not apply jobs act to the public employment. We do not apply simplistic recipes to import from the world of private work a regulatory forecast that can only be applied in private. This does not mean not sanctioning those who hurt, anything else. In the delegation there is a fundamental criterion in order to ensure, once and for all, concrete results and the conclusion of disciplinary procedures and to ensure that the wrong party is sanctioned. The disciplinary procedures, as introduced by Renato Brunetta - let's face it - do not work because they are too complicated. We will be responsible for ensuring that disciplinary proceedings work, but at the same time we cannot fail to consider that there is a substantial difference between the public employer and the private employer. In fact, the private employer thinks with his own resources, while the public employer thinks with resources of the community. This means that, in the event of a defect in dismissal, the community would not only see the wrong removal of a worker who made a competition (which should then be replaced by recruiting another worker to be awarded another competition), but would also assist in the payment of an allowance to the dismissed worker from the resources of the community. In the end, there would be double damage to the community. I believe that we cannot fail to consider these elements and we must therefore take responsibility for a true culture of responsibility that guarantees true results, rewarding those who do good and sanctioning those who do wrong, but we must move from the reality of things and not from mere simplistic translations, which would not solve the problems, creating more of them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u25	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, I can only agree with Mrs Ministro on the approach to her speech, partly because I think that innovation goes through simplification. Therefore, Mrs. Minister, we can only share and support your efforts. My speech - certainly Minister Madia will share this point - was aimed at drawing attention to the fact that the citizen needs not only a single interlocutor, but also that controls on the territory are strengthened and that the single interlocutor is credible and reassuring, especially at a stage like this, in which the central state becomes increasingly important due to the reforms that we are also promoting at the constitutional level. I am aware that other ministries are also responsible for this, but I agree with the approach and thank you for your reply within the scope of the Minister's powers for simplification and public administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u28	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, thank you for your reply and for your intention to reduce the internal burdens and obligations of the public administration, through the implementation of the reform of the public administration itself. My question, however, was a little wider, and it referred to the fact that, in the other rules and in the other laws, new and new requirements are introduced with full hands. I trust, for the good of all, that his intentions can be implemented, but they must also prevent the insertion of new and new requirements. There is no doubt that there are rules that, if well implemented, will guarantee the possibility of fulfilling more quickly or in a less costly way than already imposed, but if we add to each law another one we go against that very important objective of making public administration efficient, as you yourself said. This is a very important objective; more than cutting public administration, it is necessary to make it efficient, because it can and must be a resource for our country and not simply be considered a cost.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u31	CRIMI (M5S). Minister, I honestly don't know which country you see. You say you see all this optimism, this change and these revolutions, but sincerely, when you ask employees and civil servants, all these revolutions do not see them or see them only in the government's paper, intentions and slides. I continue to receive from peripheral offices indications that are of a different nature than those that still remain intentions and that can also be good, but that have never seen an application. As I said, the personnel of the Provinces who transit in this way to the Ministry of Justice do not bring any good results, if it is not properly formed with an extraordinary plan of ad hoc training, for which perhaps it should be foreseen a precise identification and a precise allocation of resources; otherwise it will be a further load for the judicial offices and for the staff, already lacking, in this period of arrival of new resources.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u34	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Minister, I can also feel partially satisfied, in the sense that you referred to the speech of the spending review, evaluating those that are non-linear cuts - probably that was the reasoning - but which are going to affect in a percentage way. However, it remains for me to doubt what will be the particular difficulties of some realities that, due to their conformation, have different needs, training, structures and organic and for which, in addition to the cuts that can be assessed in their intrinsic meaning, there is also a reasoning of a territorial nature.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u37	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam Minister, I ask you whether and when you intend to apply the standard costs, which you yourself have even put into constitutional reform, and you tell me that you will achieve the same, if not even better, results with transparency. Excuse me, but transparency should be a normal fact. When reasoning was made about how to select the political class, it was said that this should be done on the basis of honesty. But that doesn't mean anything: honesty should be a prerequisite in selection, to which skills and skills should be added. Thus the administration must also produce effective results; it is not enough to be transparent. Standard costs allowed this. The League had paternity in establishing standard costs. It would be smarter for you not to dismiss them, but to claim the paternity of their application. Too bad you don't want to.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u40	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr Minister, your answer does not leave us satisfied, because you have not indicated, for example, what additional resources you intend to give to the Provinces, which are already exhausted today and which will be even more so next year. Senator Crimi has already said about the staff: you can't transplant personnel who have no training in the courts, when instead the most logical thing would have been to facilitate its transmigration to local authorities. Finally, we are talking about resources that need to be found. But who cares and what resources are being found for the safety of high school buildings and provincial roads, which are really already a scandalous thing and that do not ensure any safety and agility conditions for our children who go to school and for motorists who travel the majority of Italian roads (which are provincial roads)?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u41	Let us now turn to questions on the reform of public employment and management discipline, which will be answered by the Minister for Simplification and Public Administration, Mr Madia.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u44	RUTA (PD). Minister, I am asking you when the decrees implementing the reform that we have approved with conviction to achieve the ambitious objectives of an efficient, qualified and digitised public administration and to make the public service more modern and effective, in favour of citizens and businesses. I am therefore asking you when the Government intends to engage in collective bargaining for the renewal of public employment contracts. In fact, we have chosen to focus with determination both on productivity, professionalism and merit, that only if valued become the flywheel of growth for the entire country, both on innovative forms of control, that will have to be as strict as effective in bringing out cases of bad business, corruption and absenteeism that disfigure the good name of public administration and of the many scrupulous and qualified workers of public security, fire department, health of school and training, research, ministries, the judiciary, fiscal agencies, non-economic public bodies and territorial authorities such as Regions, Provinces, Municipalities and Chambers of Commerce. In this sense, I filed yesterday a motion, signed by 28 colleagues, which commits the Government to take necessary steps to arrive quickly at the conclusion of collective bargaining in the public employment, blocked for five years, and to take measures that provide for the necessary resources to be allocated to the renewal of the contract for civil servants, also following the decision of the Constitutional Court. Finally, some thousands of health workers, doctors and nurses remain in order to guarantee the right to health. I hope and believe, as I imagine, that the issue will soon be resolved, already in the law of stability, guaranteeing the introduction of operators, precisely in order to guarantee the right to the health of citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u47	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, I had prepared a question concerning the applicability of dismissal, applying the rules of employment act to the public administration; since this question has already been answered in the previous part-session, I would like to raise the opposite point, that is, the premium in the public administration. How do you intend to include rules that really reward merit in the public administration, bearing in mind that merit, that is, non-demerit, is also to avoid excessive fiscalism or, even, obstruction by the public administration? Although this does not constitute a crime, as clearly it is taking a bribe to give an authorization, even denying this authorization a priori, or making it wait years and years, it produces very serious damage to our economy. There is even a risk that the official who behaves in this way will be seen as a fierce and praiseworthy defender of the law while, on the other hand, causing damage to the community.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u50	MORRA (M5S). Minister, the winners and eligible candidates have once again found themselves in the law of stability the turnover blocked at 25%. If the law of stability is passed in the current plant, as is highly probable, for the entire three-year period 2016-2018 the expenditure for new recruitment will be reduced, falling to 25 percent of the expenditure of the retired staff the previous year. However, public administration has a very high average by the age of its workers, even with peaks of fifty-four years in key areas such as justice. On the contrary, in France, for example, about 30% of public workers are under thirty-five years old, in the United Kingdom there are 25% (one out of four) and in Italy only 10%. The proportion of employees under the age of 25, even, is 1.3%: a very low share, as well as the sign that the relationship between universities and public administration is anything but linear. What does the Government intend to do in order to allow a real reversal of the trend and the access of young people and not so young in the public administration, a true engine of a real efficiency of the state administrations, agencies and public bodies? Is it intended to confirm the 25% turnover block, and I would stress, moreover, with the exception of the executives? Do you not think, Minister, that between staff and management should form a pre-management area (equal to what happens in the private sector with the framework area) where management personality can be formed by exercising functions immediately linked to those of its own management, while avoiding that competition winners are directly placed in the conduct of managerial functions without having first acquired the necessary professional experience? Moreover, if the tax agencies had adopted such a system, we would not have had the illegal phenomenon of the managers in charge.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u53	BOCCHINO (Misto-AEcT). Minister, in times of public employment reforms, I would like to address the areas of knowledge: school, university, research, academies and conservatives. I know that there is a plan to bring together bargaining sectors in these sectors. I do not want to intervene in general on this, but on a more specific aspect concerning the research teaching staff of universities, public research bodies and the AFAM sector. This public service staff - I remember - carries out purely intellectual and creative tasks, which are not reflected in any other area of public administration. We must, therefore, raise the problem - in my opinion - of how to project this specificity in the field of labour legislation. As far as university students are concerned, we know that the so-called publicist regime is in place for them, precisely in order to protect their freedom of research guaranteed by the Constitution and their professional autonomy. I would therefore ask you, Minister, what do you think of the possibility of extending the publicity system to the research staff of the public research institutions and the AFAM sector? I would remind you that already in Law No 124 of 2015, Article 13, there are delegations, in particular for public research bodies, which provide in part for the relegification of certain aspects of the profession of researcher. In addition to a general comment, I would like to ask you at what time and how you intend to implement the delegations referred to in Article 13 of Law No 124.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u56	D'ANNA (AL-A). Minister, I believe that the questions of colleagues are very candid, as well as candid are your answers. Who has an idea of the State, that it is not the bureaucratic, redundant, inefficient, ontologically unable to function, knows well that, beyond the laws, paragraphs and directives, the fatigue of the lazy does not buy anyone. Why do I say that? If you had the chance to read a beautiful book by Nicola Rossi, who was also a member of the Democratic Party - he realized, however, that there were no prospects for liberalism, at least then - he knows that the State considers citizens as different than itself; otherwise it would not interpose administrative law between itself and citizens: the civil code would suffice. I tell you this because, at this juncture, you - together with your Government, who boasted and did something that had a meaning that went in the direction of the modernization of the state, from the reform of the school, to the jobs act, to some other measure that faces the horizon - have the possibility to mark a historical page. And the Court of Cassation has told him, which has stated in an intelligible way that Article 18 applies in both the public and private sectors. You have the possibility, in this historical moment, when the hierarchies of the unions, the consociativism, the pressure of the CGIL and all the preachers of the Oltranzist left and the defenders of the Leviathan State, that is, of the existing, have trumpets not as ringing as a few decades ago, to end the hateful discrimination between the workers of the private sector and those of the public sector. And I say this not because I am against the existence of children of a minor god. I say this because if you, Minister, do not introduce this criterion, which consists not in putting a sword of Damocles on the neck of the public workers, but in making them responsible - in the sense that those who do not work and do not carry out their task can be expelled, without prejudice to all the rights, healings and protections provided for by the law - in this context you can make all the transhumances of this world, all the paragraphs and circulars you want, but you will never have an efficient public administration. Statalism breaks, in fact, the ethical link between rewards and merit. You, therefore, pay and continue to pay 3.5 million employees for the single day of presence: that is your problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u59	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Minister, I will ask you a question about the consequences of the disapplication of Article 61 of the 1996 national employment contract, whereby employees or former employees of the various ASLs, belonging to the health management area, have called or are about to sue their administration, for damages from contractual and non-contractual liability and for aggravated liability. The effects of these disputes will cause serious damage to the administrations involved. It is said that a fair regulatory solution could already be found in the Stability Act for 2016, by adhering to an explicit request made by the State-Regions Conference that, for the purposes of harmonisation, it would be appropriate to provide for an interpretative provision, fixing the quantification of the same funds - i.e. the area result funds - to the measure of the budget allocation provided for in Law No 537 of 1993. The regulatory solution not only would not entail expenditure, but would even lead to significant savings in the litigation in place. I would therefore ask you, Minister, if you are well aware of the matter and the facts I have presented to you, what the Government's position is on this matter and what measures are being taken to avoid the disastrous consequences for the public administrations affected by those disputes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u62	NACCARATE (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI)). Minister, the current law on the delegation of public administration reform provides, as you know, for the establishment of unified roles of the managers, in which the directors of the various roles of the state administration, national non-economic public bodies, local authorities, universities, research bodies and government agencies will be involved. Having said that, I would ask you to know in the meantime what the application criteria of the unified institutional roles will be, with particular regard to the one in which the leaders of the state administrations will merge, given the considerable differences in discipline that, in the state, characterize the different administrations. I would also like to know whether the elimination of the distinction between roles in two groups could be potentially detrimental to the career paths already established, with the concrete risk of litigation on the part of managers who would have to be without a post or even recipients of a lower level of office, with a form of retrocession, which would even be paradoxical. Finally, I would like to ask you whether you do not believe that, for the reasons just described, it is appropriate to provide, in the context of the first implementation of the new system, for example, a mechanism - such as an exhausted role for managers already in possession of the qualification of first class, in particular - that allows both to make the first phase of the classification and operation of the new roles more manageable, and to contemporaneize the transition to the new rules with the substantial respect of the positions legitimately acquired in the current system.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u65	ZIZA (CoR). Mr Minister, your reply in the passage concerning Article 18 and the applicability of the relevant judgment did not satisfy us. That is why we propose the question to you in a clearer way. Together with other colleagues, I need to understand whether you want to intervene on that de facto judgment. Basically, are you going to intervene on Article 18 or not? And I say this also because a political problem opens up. An authoritative source of your Government such as the Undersecretary Zanetti reads the sentence as we all read it: that is, the sentence allows you to fire in the public administration as it is possible to do it in private. On the contrary, it even talks about an incentive and clarification in favour of the dismissal of civil servants. The question is, are you intervening with a law or not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call Mr Madia, Minister for Simplification and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u66	Mr President, I believe that the rhetoric of idlers has not been good for Italy and, above all, for public administration by improving its services for citizens. From this point of view, I welcome the question of Senator Malan, who asked what the mechanisms of reward will be, what will be the ways to ensure that the public employee who works well is recognized that that work is done well. And I answer that question by joining the question of the single role and the leadership. I believe that the real response to reward is in the mechanisms that we profoundly change in the career of executives, i.e. those who have the greatest responsibilities in public administration, with the introduction of the single role. The unique role in its implementation will continue - as our Constitution tells us - to focus on the role leaders recruited for competition, but creating a real competition in the conferral of positions to these leaders. It means that the positions that the managers will assume will be of greater or lesser responsibility from time to time, depending on how the previous assignment has been carried out. What is it that in this more dynamic, flexible and less rigid mechanism by the band mechanism, which we will overcome by providing for a transitional regulatory provision - this is the answer to ensure a well-made transition from the old regime to the new - will guarantee premiumness? It will be the fact that, when assessing how an executive carries out his duties - an assessment that, I repeat, will enter the career path of that manager - he will also assess how he evaluated the people who work with him or with her. And a good evaluation will be a compulsory differentiated evaluation. First of all, let's get out of the world of equal assessments for everyone. If an executive evaluates the people who work with him in an equal and non-different way, he himself will be penalized in his own career through the conferral of the next assignment. I believe that this new mechanism that we will introduce by implementing the delegation on the single role will really allow us, and not in words, to introduce other mechanisms that, bringing real reward to those who do good in public administration, recognize that public employees are the engine of the same public administration and the change of services that we must offer to citizens and businesses for greater competitiveness of the country, and not only. It also serves to have a more just country, with equal opportunities and more human, where people are not forced to waste too much time among the offices, time that they might dedicate to their lives, to the affections and choices they freely want to make. This is an important point that is linked to a rule already in force, namely that of silence-consent between administrations, and also in this case I respond to an incident by Senator Malan. That provision, which has also been instrumentally contested claiming that it should foresee constructions everywhere, is really nothing more than that principle of civilization for which offices must respond and also respond to each other. Otherwise, the procedure is formed with the consent of the office and therefore of the manager who has not responded, but who with that consent also assumes responsibility for the formation of the procedure. I believe that this rule will really ensure that there are no more blocks between administrations and, therefore, there are no answers and uncertainties for citizens and businesses. With regard to the question of the colleague of the 5 Star Movement Group, we want to radically change the current recruitment model. I believe that today's public administration pathology is to consider the different offices and people who work there as a summation of administrations and not as the administration of the Republic. This is very clear from the current recruitment mechanisms. It recruits on the basis of turnover and old organic plants that no longer represent anything, and less than ever the professional needs of the administrations. There is a total parcelling of the contests and, therefore, each administration makes its own contest on the basis of organic plants that no longer represent anything and pulls out of such competitions of infinite rankings that, in fact, create endless lists of unsuccessful and eligible contest winners. Often, for years, we have had unhired contest winners. Just these days I have signed the hirings for the non-hired contest winners and for the eligible ones beyond the assumptions of the current year, because it is not fair to make them pay for bad recruitment rules. However, in the delegation and in the legislative decrees that mode of recruitment we surpass and do so having the objective of an administration of the Republic that is unitary and simple towards the outside, that recruits with competitions made with centralized modalities according to the requirements of professionalism that even the times that change can determine. It is not, in fact, said that the mechanism of turnover, which provides for the recruitment of retired persons, is really the best to introduce regularly - of course with this new recruitment mechanism we will return to make regular competitions - the professionalism really necessary in the different historical epochs to serve the general interest in the public administration. With regard to Senator Ruta's questions, I am working with Minister Lorenzin on a rule allowing the introduction of new health workers, also in the light of the entry into force of the new legislation implementing the Community provisions on shiftwork for doctors, which provide for reduced shifts. Therefore - as it has rightly emphasized - it is necessary the introduction of new operators of the health and I am working with minister Lorenzin in this sense. As far as bargaining is concerned, in the Stability Act, the Government has allocated resources to reopen a contract season after several years of blocking. And in this respect, I can only renew the address I have already given to the Public Government Negotiating Representative Agency (ARAN). The parties, that is the ARAN and the unions, have to close the story of the sectors that drags from 2010, respecting the law and implementing the legislation in force from 2010, because the implementation of that discipline is preconditioned in order to have the contract season reopened. I consider an important fact that, after years of crisis and GDP with the negative sign, we reopen a contract season, obviously hoping that Italy's growth will go better and better, that there will be more and more development and that growth and development will bring with it the willingness of the Government to allocate more and more resources that follow a dynamic of growth that resumes for Italy. In the meantime, however, we must reopen the contract season and, in order to do so, we have allocated the resources. It is the parties that must quickly close this matter. I do not answer the various questions, including Senator D'Anna's, about Article 18 because they were very clear, but I think the answer I gave to Senator Crimi was equally clear. As far as researchers from public research institutions are concerned, what we see in Law No 124 is that, for the particular work of researchers, there are mechanisms of greater flexibility than the rules of public employment and public administration. The timing that we have given ourselves - and which in fact gives us the law itself - is that the decrees are all published in the Official Journal by August. Apart from the single text on public employment which, unlike the other delegations, provides for an eighteen-month timetable (therefore six months more), we will start with a first block of decrees already before Christmas and then, on the other hand, we will continue to bring them to the Council of Ministers by spring, to give all the time to the parliamentary committees to analyze them and then give them, for the final passage, to the Council of Ministers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u69	RUTA (PD). Minister, I am pleased with your reply, but I have to make a few specific points. Compared to the health sector (thousands of doctors and professionals), I am pleased that the Government is working, in agreement with the Ministry of Health, on the solution of the problem that I hope to find in the law of stability. The Minister didn't say when, but I think that's the place he needs to hit immediately. She says yes, and I'm glad. As regards collective bargaining, the ARAN must conclude with the trade unions. There's no doubt about it. Collective bargaining, however, must be activated and in a very reasonable time, because we are late (see the recent decision of the Constitutional Court). It is an extraordinarily important sector of 3.5 million working citizens, who want to be treated like others, nothing more. Collective bargaining needs real, important resources and I believe that the Government, in the next DEF, can give the signal that that world is waiting for; that world of people who work in a serious, hard-working and who do not need to be a burden to the State, rather representing today a flywheel.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u72	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Minister, for what you have said about the reward for the employees of the State, especially the managers. I am less optimistic about the effectiveness of the rules that have been adopted and that the Government, to a large extent - as is normal - still has to implement, but I fully agree with you on the objectives. In the light of what he said, there is certainly a positive element: because, according to what he said, the manager will actually be responsible not only for the bureaucratic fulfillment itself, but for the actual result that will be obtained, or the concrete benefit deriving from his action, in turn obviously the political decision-maker, who appoints or in any case places or gives office to the leaders, will be directly responsible. I believe that this is a positive aspect. Let me say that, when I was rapporteur for a measure in this same direction in 2002, we were attacked and accused of occupying the public administration. I believe that those who were then attacking us were wrong, and some are the same people who are supporting the reform today. The goal is responsibility: those who do good must go ahead and must be able to continue to do good, and those who do wrong must at least have other tasks, and I certainly agree with that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u75	BOCCHINO (Misto-AEcT). Minister, I am not satisfied with your answer. I believe that in this country we have the big problem: to put in place the conditions so that research and innovation become an important and strategic part for us. This is of course done by means of resources, by combating precariousness in universities and research institutions, but above all by trying to project that cultural exception, which corresponds to workers, to research work, to the work of teachers, to labour legislation. My question was precisely in this direction, namely how the advertising of the working relationship of the ARAN institutions and teachers can contribute, as a small tool, to put the research and innovation sector back on track and give the right dignity to these workers beyond privatisation. I am not saying to privatise but, within the public administration, it is necessary to implement such a cultural exception to these professions that are so strategic for the country. I hope that, within the framework of the delegation of Article 13 of Law No 124, you fully implement this philosophy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u78	D'ANNA (AL-A). Minister, I wouldn't know how to express myself since you didn't give me an answer. Therefore, I can only repeat the question. As the recent judgment of the Court of Cassation has stated, will you apply Article 18 also in the civil service? [[Comments of Senator Naccarato]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u79	Senator Naccarato, you're not the one questioned.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u80	D'ANNA (AL-A). In addition, you thoughtfully said that there will be a check-up. Quis custodiet ipsos custodias? Who will guard the keepers? Who controls the efficiency of the sole manager? Do the evaluation teams, full of trade unionists and trade union acronyms that already operate in the public administration, together with some fucked politician appointed by the various councils that form the evaluation core? Control must be third, Minister, otherwise they sing it and play it, and its good intentions will not be enough, which - believe me - are music to my ears (also the new semantics). It's not about cutting down the state, it's about making it work. The state, which was born not to be a bureaucrat but to direct the complex social architecture, can do things according to private law. If you have to do it, if you have to run the marathon, you have to run with your legs. The state cannot afford to run with its hands on the ground and its feet in the sky, overturning the burden of the 2,200 billion debt on the citizens, which are the result of the wicked management of fifty years of this state with the leverage of public expenditure and public debt. The honourable Member who spoke earlier also wanted the researchers to be statified. Science is competitive: cum petere, look together. There can be no stateliness and competition.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u83	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam Minister, like my colleague Mr D'Anna, I have to say that I am very embarrassed because I have not heard a hint of an answer to the question I asked you. I should say that you are a good Minister of simplification and decide who to answer and who not, simplifying the work. We were convinced that this was a service to make parliamentarians know the state of the art, while it turns out to be a runway for the government, because 10% is made of answers and 90% is in a sense propaganda of what the government is doing or wants to do. I detect a great incongruity. The Minister speaks of rewards, of the sole role of the management, of assignments based on responsibility, of a competition within the leadership: whoever deserves will have. But the question I asked is exactly this: why was it not even applied within the health sector, where it was written that there was a solidarity fund, a fund that was called a result fund, that is to say, linked to efficiency, and it is said that it will apply in other areas? We are not there, the government whimsical, does not respond and, when it does, also alters the reality.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u86	NACCARATE (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI)). Minister, as a strong supporter of the great reform season, including that of the public administration, I really hope that the results, also on this front, will not be delayed and will be appreciated especially by citizens who should see their everyday lives more simplified. I recommend only two things: firstly, to really give priority to merit, in order to avoid paralysing the too many different articulations of the State, even more so if the management is redistributed with a criterion that is not above all in the name of the efficiency and effectiveness of the administrative action. Therefore, competence is a prerequisite. Secondly, I would ask that we avoid putting in place - which would happen, if we did not do as I said before - a major dispute which would even threaten to paralyse the public administration even more. And, therefore, a wise transition - as I understand from his words - is welcome to accompany this great revolution with the foresight and fairness that I hope the Government wants to carry out with a great sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u89	ZIZA (CoR). Minister, we believe that on Article 18 and on the freedom to treat public administration and private companies equally, we did not want to respond. In fact, we know that an ideological confrontation is taking place in the government and, therefore, there is no real political line on this matter. We believe, therefore, that employees should be guided according to the ideology of the judge: if the judge thinks in one way, they will have a judgment; otherwise, they will have another, because they do not have the political will, and therefore the strength, to decide on a matter on which it would be right to intervene once and for all.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u90	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank the Minister for simplification and public administration for his helpfulness and all the interrogators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u91	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-552.ana.u92	The Senate will meet again at 9.30 a.m. on Tuesday 15 December, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.13 p.m.
