ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 10 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for a resolution in the matter of insincability pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings (No 5477/08 RGNR - No 32708/09 RG GIP - No 15190/14 RG DIB) pending before the Court of Rome against Mr Franco Turigliatto, Senator at the time of the facts, for the offence referred to in the third paragraph of Article 595 of the Criminal Code (Defamation in the media of the press) The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has proposed by a majority to the Assembly to decide that the statements made by Mr Turigliatto, Senator at the time of the events, constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. Since the rapporteur is not here, I would ask the President of the Council, Senator Stefano, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u5	Mr President, I am speaking only to confirm the reasons for which the Junta considers that there is no such thing as inindacability. You summarized them very well and so let the House speak, I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u6	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pending the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting until 9:56 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.39 a.m. and resumed at 9.56 a.m.) The session is resumed. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to decide that the statements made by Mr Turigliatto, Senator at the time of the events, constitute opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore fall under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u7	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for resolution in the matter of insincability pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of criminal proceedings (No 110/14 RG Trib. - n. 11852/13 RGNR) pending before the Bergamo Court against Senator Roberto Calderoli, for the offences referred to in Articles 595 (3) of the Criminal Code and 3 of Decree-Law No 122, converted by Law No 205 of 25 June 1993 (defamation aggravated by purposes of racial discrimination) The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, rejecting by a majority the proposal of the rapporteur, Mr Crimi, proposed to the Assembly that the fact that Senator Calderoli is in the process of criminal proceedings concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore falls under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Malan, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u8	Mr President, Senator Calderoli's statement to Minister Cécile Kyenge in a meeting held in Treviglio on 13 July 2013 and then circulated by national press agencies. The present document concerns a criminal case referred to in the third paragraph of Articles 595 of the Criminal Code and 3 of Decree-Law No 122 of 26 April 1993, converted by Law No 205 of 25 June 1993 (defamation with the effect of having brought offense by a meeting as a means of advertising and of having committed the fact for purposes of racial discrimination). The Junta has heard pursuant to article 135, paragraph 5, of the Regulation, Senator Calderoli who, in leaving to the acts his intervention, has found that the statement addressed to the former minister Kyenge represented a political criticism, relative to the migration policy of the Government and the Minister, object of two specific inspection acts that go in addition to a myriad of other initiatives always of political character on the topic of immigration. Senator Calderoli acknowledged that he had used a strong expression within an articulated intervention on immigration, but made exclusively as an effect joke, since the context, as well as political, was also playful and, that is, that of an organized summer festival. At his meeting on 4 February 2015, the rapporteur, Mr Crimi, proposed the opportunity for the Council to propose to the Assembly the declaration of mayorship with respect to the document in title, not - in his opinion - the opinions expressed by Senator Calderoli in the context of the prerogatives protected by the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. As already stated by the President, this proposal was rejected by majority by the Junta considering that Senator Calderoli used, within a complex intervention on immigration strongly critical and substantially reproductive of acts of inspection union presented by the same, a strong expression made exclusively as a joke effect, since the context, as well as political, was also playful and without the aim of damaging the personality or, much less, of incitement to hatred. The second element to be taken into consideration is the temporal link between the statement of substance made by Senator Calderoli outside the parliamentary classrooms and the typical parliamentary acts in which he addressed the same issues touched on on that occasion. The temporal bond is fully recognizable. The meeting that we refer to is of 13 July 2013, while the specific inspection union documents are of 14 May 2013, that is precisely of the period immediately before the meeting. For these reasons, the Giunta, rejecting by a majority the proposal of the previous rapporteur for the unionability of Senator Calderoli's statements, proposed instead that the fact that Senator Calderoli is in the process of proceeding concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of his duties and therefore falls under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. That's about the two murderous assumptions. I would therefore like to propose that the House should be able to express itself separately, on the one hand on the possibility of criminality under the third paragraph of Article 595 of the Criminal Code and, on the other hand, on the hypothesis referred to in Article 3 of Decree-Law No 122 of 1993, also in view of the fact that I find myself a rapporteur of this report, i.e. not for having submitted a report to the Commission, but because I was among those who rejected the proposal put forward by the rapporteur. Therefore, in order to enable the House to express itself fully, I would like to ask for a split vote, anticipating that I obviously support a favourable opinion, that is, an opinion of indisputability on both sides.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u11	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have asked the floor to ask a question about your courtesy, the courtesy of this House, and of course also, first of all, that of Vice-President Calderoli, about the possibility of this vote being postponed. Allow me to give a very brief explanation of the reasons for this request. The negative political position of the Democratic Party Group on the expressions that Senator Calderoli used at the time and that are now the subject of criminal proceedings has been made official by this Assembly on the initiative of the Democratic Party Group. On 16 July 2013, a motion was tabled, of which I am the first signatory and which follows the signatures of Senators Schifani, Morra, Susta, Zeller, De Petris and Nencini. These signatures represent the large majority that then approved the motion: this is our political position. But today something different is the subject of our assessment: we must express ourselves on a criminal proceeding initiated, which concerns Senator Calderoli (which I remember is also Vice President of the Senate). We believe - I am talking about the Group of the Party of European Socialists - that there is a need for further study. These last few weeks - as all my colleagues know - have been very busy, there has been very little time available and the delicacy of the matter requires, on the other hand, that each senator can be properly informed, can assess and can reflect. It naturally adds arguments to this motion, which I address to you, Mr President, also the rapporteur's report, which has in some way evolved the subject with his request for a split vote. I consider Senator Malan's statement to be reasonable, but this naturally increases the need to reflect also on this possible, and from my desirable point of view, evolution of the procedure. So I come back to asking you, the House and Senator Calderoli to postpone the vote on this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u14	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, President Zanda's request, specifically for the case of Mr Calderoli, in view of the situation we are in at the moment, in the face of constitutional reforms, in which a President of the Council almost expels the President of the Senate from his role, announcing in advance the decisions that the President of the Senate should have taken, almost as if to anticipate the abolition of the Senate that he wishes, he knows more about blackmail. That is the exact meaning that must be given to President Zanda's words today. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is a real blackmail, because the Democratic Party, in the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, has already voted for the unmistakable views expressed by Senator Calderoli. He's already voted! Strangely, the problem has not been raised for all the other cases that are on the agenda today, such as those of Turigliatto and Gentile, but strangely they have put it in the case of Senator Calderoli, who is the presenter of 500,000 amendments to constitutional reforms. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So let's use the right words. That of President Zanda and the Democratic Party is not a proposal, but it is a real blackmail: if you want us to vote for you for the insincacability, withdraw the amendments, otherwise we will vote for the dissidentity of your opinions! [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Crosio, Pagnoncelli and Scilipoti Isgrò]] This is what President Zanda said today, with veiled words, but in such a way that everyone understood that it was a veiled blackmail, indeed not even veiled, but evident. [[Comments from the PD Group]] You don't have to smile, you do. It's pretty obvious, everyone gets it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u15	Talk to me, Senator Crimes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u16	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, do not give in to these blackmails, because it would be really degrading for this institution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u17	The vote of the Assembly was requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u18	AIROLA (M5S). You are always the second office of the State!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u21	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, may I speak on the request to postpone the deliberations or on the substance of the matter? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You may speak on the request for referral, Senator Calderoli. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I personally leave aside the controversy, the reforms and all the big words that I have heard in this House at the moment. It is not a fisima, for me, that I want to ask for the vote and I will specify it better later. The Council's ruling on elections and parliamentary immunity is from 4 February this year. Inexplicably the court of Bergamo, despite the request for the postponement of the acts to the Senate, as required by law, did not send the acts and continued holding three hearings before sending the acts. Despite the fact that the Junta had ruled in favour of inconvenience, the proceedings continued with a series of sessions and the texts were heard and on 3 October a hearing was set which could represent the last hearing. At this point, I therefore believe that the problem must be addressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u24	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I believe that the reasons for the postponement that Mr Calderoli has just put forward must be taken into account. There is a very serious matter from this point of view. Among other things, Mr President, at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders, we knew exactly what the situation was like and you yourself proposed that all the deliberations of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities be put to the vote. Therefore, no case of postponement had been raised during the meeting. Mr President, I also think it is good for everyone, and it is everyone's interest, given the so delicate moment and the situation that has arisen and which we shall be dealing with at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders this afternoon (with the forcings that are also taking place on reforms) to avoid any decision that can also be interpreted as a form of undue pressure - let us call it that. I therefore believe that it is good to proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u27	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group is against postponement. I would like to say, however, that frankly, unlike other colleagues, I do not believe that President Zanda's intervention was aimed at co-arting President Calderoli in his amending activity, who is also known to be a person capable of determining himself in his choices. Nor do I think that there is a contrary understanding of whether we want to benefit from this House today, which is not known as the benevolence of this House. I therefore believe that it is right to respect the determination expressed by Senator Calderoli himself, even in the light of the things we have heard about this matter, which I do not want to go into here. This is certainly an unpleasant and critical story, but Senator Calderoli apologized for it, with a whole series of clarifications. Having said that, since we are examining the proposal for a postponement, I believe that continuing according to the natural and logical order of the work eliminates and clears the field from the suspicion that someone has previously advanced, so as to decide on the substance of the matter. Already yesterday afternoon I thought it was rather rough with regard to our work, skills and roles. I therefore believe that it is good to proceed with the examination of the matter concerning Senator Calderoli. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u30	AUGELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I believe that Mr Zanda's intelligence would be wronged if he imagined that he could coax with a small extortionist outburst of Mr Calderoli's amendment fury; even if someone remotely thought so, Mr Zanda, it would be impossible: anyone who knows Calderoli knows very well that it takes a lot more than that. Of course, however, we are concerned at this time - and I address my colleagues in the Democratic Party to share our concern - as far as Mr Calderoli is concerned, which is very serious. There is no doubt that, in the face of a decision taken by the Junta in any case and with a process that is going on as if the problem of the insindicability of the opinions expressed by a senator simply did not exist, the postponement of this decision risks putting us in a very difficult situation and I would say almost of conflict with the judiciary, of which we could frankly do without, also given the extreme difficulty of managing this type of conflict by the Senate, the institutions and by you, President Grasso, as you well know. There are no objectively serious reasons for further examination of a question which dates back to February and which is now so clear that the Junta has come to express a widely shared opinion regarding the unmistakableness of the opinions expressed by Mr Calderoli. It is therefore above all for this reason (I do not know what the other reasons for the Democratic Party Group to request this postponement may be), because of this institutional concern that I think it would be a mistake to postpone this decision, an error even quite dangerous, as well as an act of weakness on the part of the Senate, in the face of a situation that frankly, at least according to my memories - I have been in Junta for many years, since 2007 - had never occurred before. I do not remember that it has ever happened that on a case of insindicability the process has gone on happily, as if it were not necessary the opinion of the Constitutionally planned Junta. For these reasons we are asking that the Calderoli case be discussed in advance, as per the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u33	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, there are at least three reasons on which we are called upon to reflect, which opens the door to a proposal that I am going to present. The first refers to the presence of an institutional conflict between the judiciary, which continues along the path of judgment, as President Calderoli has just mentioned, and the Senate, which is likely to see its prerogatives undermined, where decisions should never be late. The second reason is the content of the case, which has been explained in a precise and precise manner by Senator Malan, as he himself says, the rapporteur of the case, who, with great punctuality, has reconstructed the case also with regard to the time-scanning of the events and the proposal that he makes of a split vote in order to allow the Assembly to express a more mature, responsible and complete opinion. The third reason, which I believe is absolutely important and for which I also feel I should like to express a thought of solidarity with President Zanda, is that the tone and the terms used by Mr Crimi to seek a motivation in support of the request for postponement, I believe that they are absolutely censorable. The term "ricacotto" is the absolute antithesis with respect to the linearity and transparency of behavior that I feel to recognize to President Zanda and that they themselves represent as motivation an additional element, which induces me to propose the continuation of the work with the expression of the vote precisely in order to remove, at a particularly delicate moment of the institutional debate, the Senate from the need for him to be recognized its function, its autonomy. In this sense, on behalf of the Group of Conservatives and Reformists, I would ask you to continue with the expression of the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u36	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, I rise to appeal to Senator Zanda to withdraw his request. We are accustomed, in truth, to other verse (i.e. for legislative procedures), to statements for which, when time is over for certain matters, it is necessary that we vote: we will probably be called to this also in the afternoon, the time accomplished. With regard to the decision taken by the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, time has already been over for a long time. When the decision was taken in this House not to verify the decision of the Junta, it was done with a broad consensus. The only precedent in this legislature is the decision that stuck to the position of Senator Papania, which was taken almost unanimously; in Junta the decision was revised in the sense of a temporal correction, as it had been proposed in the Chamber both by Senator Cucca and by me. In the case of this matter, it does not seem to me that the conditions are being met. Therefore, when decisions have been taken for a long time it is necessary to proceed, as Senator Calderoli has said, further to the continuation of the trial, I do not think that Senator Zanda's proposal can be put to the vote. For these reasons, I repeat my request to speak: it would be good if the proposal were withdrawn and we were to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u39	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I understand Mr Zanda's arguments and to some extent I can also share them, but there is a further and higher need, namely to give Mr Calderoli - at this stage, not within the limits of his remarks - the certainty of a procedural position that is at this moment dependent on us. Therefore, as the time limits for the further trial phase for next 3 October are fixed, I believe that we must express ourselves in order to give cover or not to its activity. As a result, I am of the opinion that the Council's proposal should proceed and be examined in substance, bearing in mind that it has been several months since the Junta gave its opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u42	Mr Malan, rapporteur. Mr President, as rapporteur, I would like to give my opinion on Senator Zanda's proposal. The Junta, even if it wanted to, does not have the tools to make a further examination of the issue, so from the Junta's point of view the issue has been completely escaped. The document was by you, President, referred to the Junta on 12 November 2014, that is ten months ago; the Junta carried out a thorough examination and on 4 February defined its proposal, which is the one on which I briefly referred. I believe that seven months is an appropriate time, and I do not think that he has ever expected so much in this parliamentary term to bring a resolution of the European Parliament to the House. I would find it very difficult to think of a further postponement. I wonder what would have happened if this had happened on other documents deliberated by the Junta.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u45	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I am not responding to Senator Crimi's insinuation and I am addressing the presidency of the Senate. The rapporteur, Mr Malan, has now mentioned the possibility of referrals. I would remind you that the proceedings of our sessions show that the referrals, in these circumstances, have been different, perhaps even numerous. I would remind you that the reasons why I asked for a postponement were based solely on the need to be able to reach the senators with an awareness of the situation as much as possible. There was no political element in my motion, there was no political intention. In fact, I think that at this stage of our work politics should be absent. It has always been, even in previous cases, that they have been concluded with votes given in absolute consciousness. It is precisely because this issue is not politically relevant, but, from my point of view, it is very serious for the behaviour and judgment of this House, and I would ask you, Mr President, to check with the vote the overall position of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u46	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to postpone the debate on document IV-b, No 4. I put to the vote the proposal to postpone the debate on document IV-b, No 4, tabled by Senator Zanda. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u47	Mr President, I feel obliged to speak on a point of order because, as the Senate Presidency knows better than I do, Rule 102 (5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, unlike that of the Chamber of Deputies, provides that the request for separate votes, which can be made by each senator, should be made by the House. However, we are well aware that it is not enough to make a request to this effect, since the Presidency should first assess whether it is admissible, i.e. whether the text adopted (in this case by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities) can or should not be divided into parts with their own independent value. I call on this very function of procedural guarantee which the Presidency carries out. It is all too clear that, in the present case, we are not even in the presence of the same fact generating different criminal offences (i.e. so-called multi-offense crimes, for which, however, a request for a split vote would not be admissible, as I will explain in a moment), we find ourselves faced with a single case of crime (the defamation ex Article 595 of the penal code) originating from a single fact and "aggravated" (so the accusation says) from having put in place such conduct for purposes of racial discrimination, referred to in Article 3 of Decree-Law 26 April 1993, no. 122 (converted by law 25 June 1993, n. 205). The request of the judiciary, as can be seen from the same heading of the document, therefore concerns only an aggravated crime and not two separate abstract cases. In my opinion, the hypothesis of voting for separate parties is therefore also logically inadmissible, even before legally inadmissible, not including among the powers of the Senate the verification of the existence or not of the aggravating circumstance, contested instead by the judiciary. In this case, there would be a clear impairment of the powers of the judiciary, which is the responsibility of the Senate only to decide whether or not the concrete case brought to our attention is covered by the inindacability referred to in Article 68 (1) of the Constitution, as expressed in the typical exercise of parliamentary functions (as the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has also resolved). Consequently, I believe that it would be a procedural error (I do not find any other terms) even to vote separately because of the indisputability in question with reference, on the one hand, to defamation and, on the other hand, to the aggression of racial motives. A request for a split vote on resolutions of inconvenience could, if anything, be considered admissible only if the subject matter of the vote concerned two separate, though related, concrete facts, as it is the facts that the Senate must decide. Moreover, if the least is the case, it is worth recalling the jurisprudence of both the Constitutional Court and the Council for the authorization of the Chamber of Deputies for the so-called multi-offensive crimes. Several times the Constitutional Court has been able to specify that the resolution of the competent Chamber concerns a particular fact, for example, a decision relating to a criminal procedure explains its effects even in a possible civil process concerning the same fact or vice versa (the reference is to judgment n. 449 of 2002). The typical object of Parliament's deliberations on the subject of mayorship is therefore the assessment of a definite fact that is indispensable or not, i.e. whether or not it is linked by a functional link to the typical parliamentary activity, beyond the multiple and differentiated legal consequences. More specifically, we can mention the precedent of the Council for the authorization of the Chamber of Deputies of 23 September 2009, with reference to an affair in which the judicial authority had considered from the same historical fact to cause two different criminal charges: one for defamation and the other for slander. Precisely on that occasion, President Castagnetti pointed out that, from the point of view of parliamentary competence, regardless of whether such statements have received multiple criminal labels, what matters is the assessment of the House regarding the overall relevance of the conduct to parliamentary functions. Otherwise the risk of the bis in idem, which would have been freed on the same fact, now from the point of view of defamation, now from the point of view of slander, would emerge. Therefore, on that occasion the Junta - and then the Assembly - agreed that a single deliberative outcome should concern both criminal disputes. I begin to conclude by recalling also the previous of the Giunta for the authorization to proceed of the Chamber of 27 October 1999, when in the face of a historical fact unitary - that is to say statements of a Member appeared in two different newspapers - the Giunta considered that it had to proceed to a single vote on that fact, referring to the two different procedures resulting from the same statements reported from two different newspapers. In conclusion, in order to respect the principle of non-contradiction and the criterion of ne bis in idem, it does not seem plausible to proceed with two separate votes concerning the same concrete case, even if they refer to two different criminal consequences or - and even more so - referring to the crime and to the specific aggravating. Either the functional link exists for that fact or is absent: once again the self-referentiality of a House would emerge and the tendency to absolute self-immunity if - with a procedural error, with a substantial fiction - it were denied the indisputability for the basic crime but it was affirmed for the aggression, where the fact is obviously the same, perhaps - but I hope for the respect of this House that my suspicion is unfounded - because in the background there are the various calculations on the relative prescriptions. I believe that this House must express its opinion on the decision that the Junta made in February 2015.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u48	President Stefano, you mentioned a record of the House, but I can inform you that there are precedents of the Senate that are absolutely in accordance with the request and separate votes on exactly the same. Senator Calderoli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u49	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my defence lawyers had prepared a written statement to ask this House to confirm the Junta's proposal to believe that this matter concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore indispensable in accordance with Article 68 of the Constitution, but I am not - nor do I want to do so - a lawyer: I am a politician, and first of all a person, a man, and therefore I prefer to use my words, as I have already done before the magistrates, before the Junta, and as I am now going to do before this Assembly, in order to be able to give you the facts, the place where they took place and, since they were expressed, to convey directly to you the true sentiments that inspired them. During a meeting in Treviglio, in July 2013, I made a speech of almost three quarters of an hour in which, among other things, I contested the immigration policy held by the then Letta Government and Minister Kyenge, who had just passed by Bergamo in the previous days and had argued that illegal immigration could not be considered a crime (at that time it was). These arguments, on which precisely in the previous months, exactly in June and May, I had presented two acts of inspection union relating precisely to the statements and politics of Minister Kyenge. Unfortunately - and I tell you that soon after I would have cut my tongue - wrong I uttered an extremely unhappy joke, that only after I understood I could be offensive, but I swear on my honor that at that moment my will was only to make a joke. The court maybe, not knowing me, he couldn't understand me. But you know me, and you know that I make a lot of jokes; I do them in this House, in the Commission, but always, as you have had the opportunity to assess, with political and ironic purposes, never with the will to offend or, worse still, to discriminate. I have shown, in fact and in years, that I always respect everyone, majority and opposition, and everyone must acknowledge this. I often make jokes about myself too, convinced that, if there is a right in politics to express one's own opinions, the same can be achieved with irony, satire, stimulating smile or rice, but certainly not out of resentment or malice that, as feelings, do not belong to me. I wake up in the morning smiling and the smile, as you have had the opportunity to verify in these years, I keep it all day long, except when episodes like the one in question happen. For eight years, the most well-known website of gossip, information and satire, "Dagospia" and other sites, next to the news about me put my picture with the head of a pig. I have always smiled and laughed in front of these images, never feeling offended by them, even if I frankly find it difficult to consider them as critical of my political work, I never thought they could be incited to racial hatred. Every day on my website I receive insults ranging from assholes to fascists to all kinds of contumelies, as well as physical or death threats, and I had to make a point of the fact that the judiciary considers them merely political criticism of me. Sometimes the same insults are addressed to me even when I preside over the House and do (or try to enforce) the Rules of Procedure: I pretend not to hear them, to move forward in the work, but I hear them, and I hear them well. Having a long attendance of these classrooms, I no longer tear my clothes when I feel that a colleague is called "psiconano", rather than "fascista", "nazista" or "methadone" (and I leave out the heavier definitions), that is, all the insults done in the Chamber or by press from colleagues to colleagues. They are not my words, but content taken from shorthand reports or printed paper, and none of this has ended up in a court of law. But let's go back to us and my rally. However, having understood the unhappiness of my line, a few hours after the end of the meeting, I telephoned the Minister himself explaining the meaning of my statement, the context in which he had taken place, my absolute will not want to offend her, and I apologized, which were immediately accepted by the interested party. I made the same apology in person to the Minister after two days, as soon as I had the opportunity to meet her in person, and once again she accepted them. I also made the same apologies publicly in the Senate Chamber, addressing them not only, again, to the Minister, but also to the President of the Senate and to my colleagues; this ended, on a personal level, by sending a bouquet of flowers to the Minister, with a handshake with the interested party and with a few months of benching as Vice President of the Chamber. The Minister has shown by the facts that he has truly accepted my apologies because, unlike similar events, he has not filed a complaint against me, nor has he formed himself as a civil party in the proceedings. I would like to stress this: the fact that he did not file a complaint, nor did he form a civil party. On the other hand, the attitude of the Bergamo judiciary was quite different. During the first hearing, held on June 26, 2014, the President of the panel of judges incomprehensiblely rejected the request of my lawyers defenders to send the documents to the Chamber of belonging, as provided by law n. 140 of 2003, as well as proposed, in sub-order, even by the same prosecutor. The President has clearly infringed Article 3 of Law No 140, which provides for the transmission of acts without delay to the chamber of his/her own, and has instead set out further hearings for the first of July, 30 September and 13 November 2014 for the examination of the texts. Finally, on 30 September 2014, that is, after four months and after three hearings, the repeated request of my defenders was accepted and the judge ordered the transmission of the acts to the Senate. Despite all this, the President of the Judging Council has set a further hearing for the month of April and despite the fact that the Junta had pronounced itself in favour of indisputability and the Senate Chamber had not yet expressed itself, the trial is resumed regularly as if the Senate did not exist and a further hearing, possibly the final one, has been set for next October 3, as I have already had the opportunity to say. That sounds incredible. It is worth remembering that the beginning of the limitation period is suspended for a year and a half from the time of the transmission of the acts of the Senate and therefore that it was necessary to move forward in the process before the Senate pronounced itself? So much for loyal cooperation between the powers of the State. This is not just the subject of myself, regardless of what this House wants to vote on, but also the dignity of the Senate and a sacred constitutional principle. To sum up, my meeting was a political criticism of the migration policy of the Government and the Minister, the subject of two specific inspection acts on the subject and per person that add to a myriad of other initiatives of mine and my party in and outside the parliamentary classrooms. Recite the Junta (it is absolutely important this passage): On the methodological plan, it is considered that the examination carried out by the Junta cannot assume an improper role of additional degree of judgment, necessarily having to be limited to the assessment of the circumstance whether the statements made extramoenia are functionally related to the parliamentary activity carried out by Senator Calderoli (...). In other words, in the light of a principle of separation of powers, the attribution to the Senate referred to in Article 68 of the Constitution (...) must necessarily focus on the mere confirmation of the existence or not of the functional link between the declaration rendered extramoenia by the parliamentarians and "typical" parliamentary acts. (...) In the present case, in fact, the statements made by Senator Calderoli, even if with the roughness and sarcastic colors commensurate with the particular context in which they were pronounced (...) are however substantially reproductive of the content of two acts of inspection union, namely act No 4-00166 of 14 May 2013 and act No 4-00324 of 6 June 2013..., as established by the temporal link, or immediately preceding. Secondly, these statements were made in a political demonstration organized by the party to which I belong and which saw my speech as a closing speech, as senator and vice president of the Senate. I acknowledge that I have said a colossal nonsense in a comprehensive speech on immigration, but I guarantee you that I did not have the will to offend, let alone discriminate. Among the many flaws that I have, I racist, beyond the jokes, are not, proof of this is that I supported the nominations and the elections of our candidates mayors of color, black city councilors, color councilors; also our immigration manager, Tony Iwobi, whose esteem and friendship ties me, is colorful. Minister Kyenge herself accepted the apology and my flowers and therefore did not sue me nor did she form a civil part of the process. To conclude, and to acknowledge my own lack of relevance from a constitutional and legal point of view, Mr Kyenge's father, after celebrating at the time of the events a rite that was not quite positive to me, in September 2014, that is, a year later, the same parent held a ceremony in Congo to convey to me all the possible positive spirits, a ceremony with which, among other things, he also adopted me. I am, therefore, his 37th son, as widely reported in the chronicles. The whole family has therefore reduced the fact and forgave me. The Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities proposes that the Assembly consider that the fact, on the basis of the two individual cases of crime, concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore falls, in the case referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. The Junta is composed of judges, lawyers and lawyers of the highest level. The Council's decision does not go too far in law, because the views I have expressed, as mentioned by the Council itself, are functionally and temporally linked to the exercise of my parliamentary mandate. So, personally, I would like to ask this House to confirm the deliberations of the Junta, but I am a politician and not a jurist and, in order to demonstrate my total intellectual honesty, I cannot fail to acknowledge that that line, that word, which I have not even been able to pronounce, did not have to say it and the fact that I may have referred it to a woman is even more censorable. I'd slap myself if this was necessary; I'd have wanted to cut my tongue off, but now it's too late, and I still can't understand how such a thing could have ended up in a court of law, and that seems unfair to me. My line was and is certainly censorable and I am the first to recognize it but to bring about the incitement to racial hatred of the Mancino law seems frankly excessive. I said a silly thing about which I regretted, excused, overwhelmed and for a few months I was benched as President, but just these days in the political debate I have heard the qualification of "beastie" to those who do not think in a certain way and the answer, equally strong, of attribution of "verme" to the one who had uttered that sentence. They are execrabile and censorable both the attributions of "beastie" and "verme" and we should all take a step back to bring politics back into the tracks of decency, good politics and - I would add - good education. However, I would never expect to see the President of the Council or the leader of a party end up in trial for these jokes and, among other things, with the incitement to racial hatred. The rapporteur asked for two separate votes on each of the two offences. I ask two questions: did I instigate racial hatred? Frankly, no. If one has patience and willingness to read cards, he will check that there is no incitement, no racial hatred. Did I slander? Honestly, I have to say that I said a silly thing, but I said it in a political dog and in physical and mental conditions that were certainly not ideal. It doesn't want to be an attenuating one, but just then I had suffered in my previous four very heavy surgeries, and two others were followed by the same; I was doing chemotherapy - which unfortunately I still do today - and, when you do chemo, with your head you're not and stupid maybe it's easier for you to run away. The Council has established the functional and temporal link of my statements with the two acts of inspection union immediately preceding that meeting and, therefore, to consider them indispensable under Article 68 of the Constitution. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote with a vote that is not a party vote, but only in a conscience. I hope that the leaders will be able to allow the freedom to vote conscientiously, as I always believe should happen in relation to Article 68 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u50	The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for a split vote. CUCCA (PD). I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is There is no explanation of vote on the request for a split vote and there is no debate; there is only the vote of the House, which has to be made by the Rules of Procedure. I put to the vote the request for a split vote made by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. We shall therefore proceed to the vote by separate votes. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to point out that the Council's proposal for elections and parliamentary immunity to consider that, pursuant to Article 3 of Decree-Law No 122 of 1993, converted by Law No 205 of 1993, for which the proceedings against Senator Calderoli are being carried out, the fact concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore falls under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] TONINI (PD). President, which part is the first? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I shall cancel the vote. We are voting on the Junta's proposal of insindicability with regard to Article 3 of Decree-Law No 122 of 1993, converted by Law No 205 of 1993 (this is the incitement to racial hatred).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u53	I remind you that we are in the process of voting, Senator Tonini. TONINI (PD). Mr President, just so that all the senators, starting with me who are the least awake of the company, are aware of what we are voting on: we are voting on the Junta's report on insinability with regard to the incitement to racial hatred, on which the Junta's opinion is favourable. So those who vote in favour vote like the Junta, and those who vote against vote against vote against the Junta's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u54	The vote in favour recognizes the indisputability already deliberated by the Junta. I would like to point out that the Council's proposal for elections and parliamentary immunity to consider that, pursuant to Article 3 of Decree-Law No 122 of 1993, converted by Law No 205 of 1993, for which the proceedings against Senator Calderoli are being carried out, the fact concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore falls under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to point out that the Council's proposal for elections and parliamentary immunities has been voted by a simultaneous ballot to consider that the fact, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 595 of the Criminal Code, for which the proceedings against Senator Calderoli are being carried out, concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore falls under the hypothesis referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u55	The next item is the debate on document IV, No 7, which contains: Request for authorization for the use of wiretapping of conversations and telephone communications by Mr Antonino Papania, senator at the time of the facts, sent by the judge for preliminary investigations at the court of Palermo, in the context of a criminal proceedings pending against him (No 21561/2013 RGNR - No 13877/2013 RG GIP) The Assembly's report on parliamentary elections and immunities has already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided by a majority to propose to the Assembly to grant authorization for the use of telephone conversations and communications of Mr Papania, Senator at the time of the events, for the interceptions carried out only until 1 November 2010, rejecting instead the request of the judicial authority for all communications intercepted after that date. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, we are continuing to discuss sensitive issues: please be careful. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Alicata, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u56	Mr President, on 26 May 2014, the judge for the preliminary investigation (GIP) at the Palermo Court asked the President of the Senate to authorise the use of wiretapping of conversations and telephone communications by Mr Antonino Papania, Senator at the time of the events, in the context of criminal proceedings pending also against him. The Junta, after having resolved to propose to the Assembly - as you said, Mr President - to grant authorization only for interceptions carried out until the end of November 2010, has reviewed the application, acting by a majority to grant such authorisation only for interceptions carried out until 1 November 2010, rejecting the request of the judicial authority for all communications intercepted after that date. The investigation concerns an affair of corruption in which the former Senator Papania would be involved, which, according to the accusation, would have established a criminal agreement through which he received from the director of the dealership that dealt with the management of the waste service in Trapani on several occasions, utility consists in the recruitment of numerous people to him liked and reported by him. The GIP considered as random only the interceptions that took place before 3 January 2011, while the requests of the prosecutor are much larger, regarding interceptions that fall within a time span ranging from 13 June 2010 to 14 May 2012. At its meeting on 28 February 2015, the Giunta approved by a majority the proposal of the new rapporteur, aimed at proposing to the Assembly the granting of authorization to use conversations and communications of former Senator Papania for the interceptions carried out until 1 November 2010, rejecting the request of the judicial authority for all communications intercepted after the aforementioned date. Mr President, the approach underlying this proposal is based on a guarantee approach, which is consistent with the approach followed by the previous rapporteur, Senator Buccarella, even if the time limit for authorisation is narrowed, limiting it to communications received until 1 November 2010. It is considered useful to reiterate certain general principles relating to the issue of so-called indirect interceptions. In cases of interception of third-party users not qualified as parliamentarians, as the Constitutional Court has clarified in judgment n. 390 of 2007, the Senate must verify which is the direction of the investigative act, i.e. whether the same is addressed exclusively to third parties recipients of the interceptions, with consequent configurability of the fortuitous character of the interceptions of parliamentarians who interlogate with such subjects or, vice versa, whether it is aimed at capturing, in fraud laws, circumstantial elements at the expense of the parliamentarians, through subjection to control of third-party telephone users that are expected to communicate with the parliamentarians, resulting in unusability of interceptions against the parliamentarians. It should be stressed that the mere circumstance of the communication between the third and the parliamentarians is not enough to involve the suspension of the collection activities and the consequent request for prior authorization to the Chamber, since to this end it is necessary for the authority to announce an involvement of the same in the investigative activities. A different interpretation would conflict with the guidelines enucleated in this regard by the Constitutional Court and would produce paradoxical effects on the concrete plane, forcing investigators to interrupt the interceptions on third party users as soon as it emerges that one of the recipients interlogates with a parliamentarians, regardless of the change of direction of the investigation and, therefore, even in cases where this change is not concretely found and the parliamentarians is therefore not directly involved in the investigation. From the general legal point of view, it must be pointed out, with reference to the present case, that the active role of former Senator Papania, starting from November 2010 - underlined in the order of the judicial authority - leaves to be inferred the lack of the requirement of the occasionality regarding the activities of capture operated after 1 November 2010, for which therefore the request for authorization must be rejected. The defensive thesis, proposed by former Senator Papania, traces the change of direction of the investigation act to 7 July 2010. This thesis presents, in the rapporteur's view, elements of likelihood, given that, already starting from the aforementioned request for extension, there can be symptomatic indices of a change of direction of the investigative acts. In the final proposal, however, it was considered that the argument in question, although likely, was not sufficient to anchor fumus mutationis to objective parameters. The Council therefore considered that further symptomatic indices were necessary for this purpose. The decisive symptomatic index, which led the Junta to see a fumus mutationis, can be found in the court's order for preliminary investigations. In particular, paragraph 3.2.3 of that order states that: From November 2010 the interceptions seem to give rise to a particular active role of Senator Papania in the resolution of the issues concerning the relationship between the AIMERI ENVIRONMENT srl and the ATO TP1 In the present case there is no evidence of the change in direction of the investigation act, but the above statements, contained in the order of the judicial authority, are likely to create a reasonable doubt as to a possible change in direction of the investigation act as from 1 November 2010. Such fumus mutationis, in accordance with the constitutionally relevant principle of favour rei, entails the logical consequence that the doubt on such a significant element for the assessment of the occasionality or not of the interceptions on third party users inevitably leads to the rejection of the request for authorization. Another element suggested by former Senator Papania was not accepted, namely that relating to the recognizability of a fumus persecutionis, underlined in the second written memory presented by the interested party in November 2014. It has been considered, in fact, that the object of the union of the Junta, in the hypothesis of interceptions on third-party telephone users, must be limited to the mere verification of the concrete nature of these activities of collection. It is a question of assessing whether the interceptions are occasional - with consequent exclusion in nuce of fumus persecutionis, not being able to recognize a persecutory purpose in an occasional act - or vice versa if the same are constituted as "direct" in the narrow sense and, therefore, if they are operated on third party users in fraud laws, in order to catch the parliamentarians surreptitiously. In this second hypothesis, it is also superfluous to verify whether or not there is fumus persecutionis, being such eventual illiceity assorted by the violation of the obligation to ask in advance for the authorization referred to in Article 68 of the Constitution, which, as explained by the jurisprudence of the Consulta, also exists in the above described hypotheses of indirect interceptions in the strict sense. The logical pattern followed is divided into two alternative developments. If the judicial authority asks ex ante for authorization to carry out indirect interceptions in the strict sense, then and only in that case can the Junta in fact assess whether or not there is a fumus persecutionis underlying this request. In the second hypothesis, the judicial authority fails to request ex ante, therefore before the execution, the authorization to carry out an indirect interception in the strict sense, giving rise to a violation of Article 68 of the Constitution by such a non-missive behaviour. In the light of this reasoning, the assessment of fumus mutationis has, on the procedural level, a pre-emptive and preliminary value compared to the assessment of fumus persecutionis, since in the case of interceptions on third-party users the first thing that the Junta is called to assess is the circumstance of the occasionality or not of the interception, with the consequence that if the collection is occasional no obligation of prior request is imposed on the judicial authority. On the contrary, if the collection on third-party users is aimed at intercepting the Member in fraud law, then the illegality of the same exists at the root, regardless of whether or not a fumus persecutionis is found. In the present case, therefore, having been identified as a fumus mutationis, i.e. a change of direction of the investigation act, indeed a well-founded doubt of a change, which should have led to the immediate interruption of the activities of capture and the forwarding to the Senate of a prior authorization for future further interceptions, it has proved superfluous to verify the existence or not of a fumus persecutionis, envisaged by the former Senator Papania in the defensive memory, being the interception in illegitimate nuce, regardless of any persecutory intent. For the above arguments, the Giunta decided by a majority to propose to the Assembly to grant authorization for the use of conversations and telephone communications of Senator Papania Antonino, Senator at the time of the events, for the only interceptions made until 1 November 2010, and to reject the request of the judicial authority for all communications after that date.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u57	I declare the debate open. Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, who are fortunately listening to us from outside and who can thus give you a clear idea of what is going on in the Senate today, we are deciding, after months and months, on the request for permission to intercept conversations and telephone communications from former Senator Antonino Papania, as requested by the judge for preliminary investigations at the court in Palermo. But what did former Senator Papania do? What is the former Senator Papania investigated for? We read in the report of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys that the investigations concern an affair of corruption in which the former senator would belong, in particular in the context of the management of the integrated urban waste management service of ATO Trapani 1, in concession to the Aimeri Ambiente srl, very familiar to the family of Utri, in competition with Orazio Colimberti, director of the South Area of the concessionary company, and with Salvatore Alestra, director of ATO Trapani 1. Both have been sentenced in part for other proceedings and in part non-final convictions already for this trial. But what was this criminal agreement? The Colimberti, on several occasions, took on numerous people whom he liked and signalled by the former senator, prompting Alestra to perform, in exchange for such recruitment, acts contrary to his duties as a public officer. There were, therefore, warnings from the politician, who indicated people not because there was some reason from the point of view of meritocracy, but for the sole purpose of electoral exchange; exchanges of courtesy. These people were hired inside the Aimeri and what was the controller doing? He was going to edit the data so the Colimberti couldn't get fines. This was the deal between politics and some people close to the mob. But who is this former Senator Papania of the Democratic Party? Let us read his resume and tell everyone in this House and perhaps also to the rapporteur, Mr Alicata. In the 2000s, when he was city council member of the Sicilian Region, another problem emerged. Workplaces are being built in Palermo to overcome the employment crisis and precise criteria are laid down for rankings. In the ranking drawn up by the Municipality of Palermo, for the work sites called "Emergency Palermo," there were 949 registered people and the priority went to the prisoners, that is to people who actually needed. Of these, as many as ten had been reported by Senator Papania and as many as seven were not even included in this ranking. In 2002, former Senator Papania was sentenced to two months and twenty days imprisonment for this crime, then turned into office abuse. We come to more recent facts. In 2012 in the city of Alcamo (the birthplace of Papania and the city of adoption of Senator Santangelo) local elections are held. Gentlemen, in this circumstance everything happens and more. Everyone in Alcamo knows what happened: what is said about a vote that is worth 50 euros or a job has actually happened; it is clear and clear from the interceptions that you have all read. Needless to talk about fumus persecutionis or fumus mutationis; this is the smoke you want to throw in the eyes of citizens to protect the caste. And that's enough, because this institution can no longer bear to waste time in front of such clear and obvious facts, Senator Alicata, so clear, Senator Grasso, for which even a former senator cannot be defended. Before justice one is worth one; a former senator must be worth what a citizen is worth. Let us give the former Senator Papania the opportunity to defend himself before justice against these infamous accusations. Consider that the former mayor, too, has now resigned for the same facts. So, what are we talking about? To prevent the judiciary from using interceptions, which are obvious, clear and clear? To defend the indefensible? This act has also been moved from the debate of the House, preventing it from being voted on three or four times for months. The caste defending the caste! Enough, Mr. President! This is unacceptable! I don't want to add more words and waste any more time. Do you want to defend a former senator, who has probably become the protagonist of these facts, in which the mafia mixes with the " munnyness " (with the worldliness) and does evil? Do you want to defend characters who are accused of this, preventing the judiciary from using tools that can lead to a given objective? Do you want to do this? Do it in front of your consciences, in front of your voters, in front of everyone. But the citizens, especially those of that territory, know, have seen with their own eyes that 50 euros, have seen with their own eyes the shopping bags brought into the popular neighborhoods: a suck, something unworthy and unacceptable in a democratic country like Italy! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the face of this, Mr President, we will vote absolutely against this opinion of the Junta, which is full of smoke so that nothing can be understood and the truth hidden. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u59	The debate is closed. As the rapporteur does not intend to speak in his reply, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u62	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are debating today is particularly serious because the prerogatives that are granted to us Members of Parliament are lived by the citizens of our country, outside these classrooms, as privileges, and therefore using them would mean defending a former senator from the trial to which the judiciary wants to subject him. This is precisely what it is about: taking away from the judiciary the possibility of using important evidence in Antonino Papania's trial. I repeat: this is what my colleague referred to. It is a shame because in this case there are no prerogatives to protect or abusive interceptions. Dear colleagues, the intercepts in question were on another user (the one of a gentleman named Colimberti) and they are making mortal jumps and somersaults to understand whether it was known or not, or whether the position of Senator Papania had changed or not. Antonino Papania, who at that time was a senator, was not the intercepted: the interceptions concerned other subjects that Senator Papania called and that were under criminal investigation. The temporal discrimination regarding the change of Senator Papania's position has been properly assessed by the judiciary, not here by his colleagues, friends, neighbors and associates who support him here. The position was assessed by the judge for preliminary investigations, who authorized the use not of all interceptions, but only of those until the moment it was understood that Senator Papania changed position, moving from simple intercepted to subject who had a part in the trial. When this was clarified, interceptions were no longer allowed. On this there is the work done by the judge for preliminary investigations, which removed interceptions that were taken (even those casually) after the judiciary had already counted on the fact that it was a senator who, according to the accusatory plant, was committing crimes with others. What are we trying to do here? One tries to confuse the moment when it was understood that Papania was a senator and was to be accused together with the other subjects involved. What's the point, colleagues? The purpose is to subtract evidence from the trial. Is this how we want to make ourselves honorable before the citizens of this country? Helping someone get away with subtracting evidence from the judges with an apology? Is that what we want to do, colleagues? This is in fact what will be said tomorrow by the citizens of this country: they saved one of them from the trial, subtracting evidence that was important. For this reason, the 5 Star Movement Group will vote against the proposal deliberated by the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity because it is a shame, because they leave only a few interceptions cutting off the big one, that is what made the judiciary understand that Senator Papania was involved, thus determining the change of his position. The reason is clear: by removing those evidence, the trial ends. We will vote against it, but we know that you will vote in favour and that you will save it. But Papania is already condemned, you condemn him with your vote, because tomorrow it will be said not that he was acquitted by the judiciary, but that he was acquitted because his colleagues and associates took the evidence from the magistrates. That's what I'll say, and we're not in. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u65	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u66	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to point out that the Council of Parliament's proposal to authorise the use of telephone conversations and communications only for interceptions carried out until 1 November 2010 and to reject the request of the judicial authority for all communications intercepted after 1 November 2010. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). SANTANGELO (M5S). Bravo! Save the mobsters! This is what you're doing: Shame on yourselves!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u67	The next item is the debate on the document: Request for resolution in the matter of insincability pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the context of civil proceedings (No 218/15 RGAC) pending before the Cosenza tribunal against Senator Antonio Gentile. The report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has unanimously decided to propose to the Assembly that it consider that the fact, for which the civil proceedings against Senator Gentile are being held in the ordinary court of Cosenza, concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and that therefore the constitutional guarantee of insincability provided for in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution applies in the present case. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Filippin, if she wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u68	Mr President, as has already been said, this is a civil action and more precisely a compensation action which was promoted by Mr Franco Petramala (director general pro tempore of the Provincial Health Company of Cosenza) towards Senator Gentile. The story is based on three articles published by Senator Gentile on the daily newspaper of Calabria and a statement published by ANSA. The editorial signed by Senator Gentile entitled "The grave faults of the policy on the Calabrian health system" published by the Calabrian Newspaper on 30 July 2009 contains among others the following statements: There are two directors, two managers, in Cosenza and Catanzaro, who manage without having to meet the requirements. One, he has even been a candidate for regional elections, in contempt of current legislation (...). Credits have increased and there have been shameful stabilisations, of untitled and artless people who receive executive salaries after self-hire. Scandals on which the judiciary will make its inevitable remarks (...). And why does a general manager without any requirement continue to rule in lawlessness except for the sense of impunity that pervades him? Similar contents are then reported in subsequent interventions, in particular in the press release of August 3, 2009, August 4, 2009 and in the editorial of August 28, 2009. Shortly thereafter, the person concerned, i.e. the pro-tempore general manager of the Provincial Health Company in Cosenza, sued Senator Gentile as well as numerous other political representatives to claim compensation for the damage of several hundred thousand euros. It should be noted in advance that the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court requires that statements made extramoenia by a Member of Parliament may be covered by the prerogative of insindicability within the meaning of the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution only on condition that a functional link with the exercise of parliamentary tasks, centred on two requirements, can be identified. The first is based on the substantial correspondence of meaning between opinions expressed on the outside and opinions expressed in the parliamentary classrooms. The second requirement is based on the so-called temporal link between parliamentary activity and external activity, so that it assumes, in relation to a limited temporal context, a dissemination purpose compared to the first. In the present case, there are as many as four acts of inspection union, presented by Senator Gentile during the period from 28 July 2009 to 26 October 2010, which essentially report, even if not with the same expressions, the same content of his interventions in the editorials and press releases. The so-called time link requirement is missing because the acts of inspection union are subsequent to the press releases themselves. However, it was noted by the Constitutional Court that the posteriority of the parliamentary act, typical of the extramoenia declaration, does not, in itself, preclude the configurability of the incongruity from the point of view of the temporal link, provided that this is foreseeable on the basis of the specific situation. In other words, at the time when press releases are made with a certain content, and immediately after an inspection union is proposed, the temporal link exists. For this reason, the Junta has unanimously decided to propose to the Assembly that it considers that the fact that the civil proceedings against Senator Antonio Gentile are being held at the Cosenza tribunal concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and that, therefore, in the present case, the constitutional guarantee of insindacability referred to in the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution applies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u69	Since there are no members to speak in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to point out that the Council's proposal for elections and parliamentary immunity to decide by simultaneous ballot that the fact that the civil proceedings against Senator Gentile are under way concerns opinions expressed by a Member of Parliament in the performance of its duties and therefore falls under the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. The Senate approves.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, with reference to the request for a resolution on insincability pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution on document IV-b, No 6, I inform you that, by letter dated 14 September, Senator Giovanardi sent the Presidency a copy of the minutes of remission of the complaint which gave rise to the criminal proceedings and their acceptance. Therefore, pending the establishment of the matter by the competent judicial authority, that document has not been placed on the agenda of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u71	The next item is the vote on the resignation of Senator Vacciano. Senator Vacciano, by letter dated September 7th, reiterated his resignation. He asked Senator Vacciano to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to be brief in my speech on the first calendarization of my request for resignation, which took place nine months ago. I will try to do better, on the one hand because there have not been, in recent months, elements that have led me to review my decision and on the other because I am convinced that everything needs our country except to waste time with the chatter of a Member. I had the opportunity to explain, in my previous speech, what the meaning of my presence in this institution was, as I have tried, both inside and outside this House, to show how important it has been, during the last seven years of my life, to have been part of a project in which I have firmly believed, but which I have seen changed into a form in which I can no longer recognize myself and therefore continue my activity. I don't think it's helpful to add any more words. I have lived with pride and enthusiasm two years as spokesperson, trying to be a simple terminal of the demands that citizens wanted to bring into the institutions. Sometimes I have succeeded and sometimes I have not, but I have always done my job in the spirit of civil service that has supported all my actions in recent years, from cleaning up a public park to submitting a parliamentary question. Now those voices could no longer carry them without losing coherence or accepting compromises to which I have never forced and will never force my conscience. I therefore believe it is right and natural to create the conditions for others to collect them and to keep them alive in this institution. Others whose names no one could indicate on any ballot box and who, like mine, were present under a precise symbol in which, of course, so many citizens recognized themselves. To respond to the understandable comments made by some of my fellow Members during the previous debate on my resignation, I would like to give only two assurances: the first is that I have a deep respect for our Constitution. Far from me wanting to upset that anti-fascist bulwark that is Article 67. However, I cannot fail to note that the meaning of that article was deeply mortified by the electoral law that led me to this institution and how, as a result, all too often, it was used to justify mere opportunistic or "spontaneous" choices. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The second reassurance is that never, much less to fulfill the parliamentary mandate, have I taken an oath of fidelity to Beppe Grillo or Gianroberto Casaleggio [[Applause from Senator Bencini]] If I promised anyone loyalty and respect on the stages, in the squares and banquets it was to those nine million citizens who were allowed only to draw a cross and chose to trace it on the symbol with 5 stars. Finally, I think it is useful to point out that the recent resignation of Mr Letta, which has been received quickly and, I dare say, enthusiastically in the other branch of Parliament, is proof that it is possible, lawful and reasonable to decide to leave office for purely personal reasons linked to his sensitivity and political experience and not just for reasons related to his own health and to family members. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, once again to be able to give back my mandate and my role as spokesperson to those who are still recognized in the 5 Star Movement today in form and substance. For my part, there are no other ways to go that will enable me to honour the commitments I have made with the citizens and to ensure the respect that is due to them on my part as well as on each of us. I thank you for these minutes which I have taken from your work, which I hope you will continue in the best possible way and once again I ask you to accept my request for resignation which will not, in any case, be subject to revocation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u73	We shall now proceed to the vote on the resignation presented by Senator Vacciano.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u76	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote for the second time on the request for the resignation of Mr Vacciano, whom I would like to call Giuseppe, a person who, I would like to stress, is honest, correct and without a shadow of doubt much more valuable in this House than many others. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Puppato.]] However, his desire to put his mandate back to the old life is a wish that must be respected, with the same respect that this majority has expressed towards one of its own, accepting in the first instance the resignation of Mr Enrico Letta with so much applause. On this last point, I would like to go over this because the applause came from the very same people who voted in favour of the famous stab wound inflicted, which is necessary to put our well-deserved President Matteo Renzi in his place. So, you keep your applause and spare them. Joseph deserves the same treatment. Sorry for the emotion, Giuseppe, but you're one of ours. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There can be no chaste logic even in the resignation of a parliamentarians: almost immediately those of a majority member, rejected on several occasions all the others. Mr Letta delivered them on 24 July and obtained them immediately. Senator Vacciano delivered them on December 22, 2014 and today he is still in limbo. The reason is clear: you are in a hurry to replace the armchair left by Letta; therefore, record times in the acceptance of his resignation. Today, on behalf of my Group, I call for equality for all, especially within the institutions. Therefore, the 5 Star Movement, your citizens, who fight with you, Joseph, will vote in favour of the acceptance of resignation wishing you a great good luck in the continuation of your life. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u79	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are elected senators and our work is governed by a series of articles of law and constitution, including the one according to which we are elected without a mandate. Of course, each one, with his own sensitivity, interprets how he feels about this lack of mandate. Forza Italia and I personally are respectful of everyone, of those who change Group, perhaps to maintain the position of Minister or other institutional office, and also of those who as Vacciano believe that, since in this case the vote of voters was given to the 5 Star Movement, there must be a representative of the 5 Star Movement even if it is not him. The Forza Italia Group against Senator Vacciano, applauding, will vote in favour of the resignation, as has been done for Mr Letta, as reported now. However, we do so with regret because in this House and in the Committee on Finance, especially Senator Sciascia and I, we have appreciated his contribution, always carried out with consistency, continuity and competence. I think the Senate loses a quality person. We regret that this is the case, but as a party based on liberal criteria, of course we respect its will. We rejected the resignation for the first time because we thought it was an act of sensitivity and because we wanted to say: stay with us because we think you can be useful to the country by working seriously in Parliament. He wants to do otherwise; we respect and appreciate him. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u82	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I shall vote against the resignation of Mr Vacciano, because - as you have also pointed out in your speech - these are political and not personal reasons. If there were any personal reasons (health, professional commitment, etc.), I would have accepted them. It seems to me, however, that the reasons are political. Then, in the face of these reasons, I demand that I oppose the resignation of my colleague, because in this House we need free minds, courage in the position. As my colleague Mr Carraro said, we need everyone to be able to express themselves without mandate. I take, instead, in your speech, colleague, the discomfort of not being able to be free in the exercise of your mandate as senator. But I want you to be free and to continue to exercise this important function. We often find ourselves in positions of disagreement on the substance. However, this does not mean that this House needs people who are genuinely free and not fictitiously free. Unfortunately, even today, we are demonstrating a limited or conditional freedom in this House. I would add, ladies and gentlemen, that I am very sorry that Mr Enrico Letta's resignation has been accepted. His personality, political position, parliamentary and governmental experience would still have been useful in the other Assembly. I repeat that we must not make use of opportunistic positions on these issues, such as those we have developed in the morning. The political use of justice is absolutely serious, just as it is serious to impose opposition or consensus on the resignation of opponents or friends.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u85	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, I have shared with Mr Vacciano the experience of an exciting electoral campaign aimed at changing the way in which politics is being done in this country. I have learned to appreciate its profound intellectual honesty and moral rigour. Having said that, I do not agree with the reasons put forward. When I was kicked out - I believe that this is the correct term - by the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement, moreover, with an irregular procedure and also in the absence of any democratic guarantee, I gained full awareness that this is not a democratic organization, according to what is meant by the Constitution of this country. This led me, in full awareness and in full will to carry forward the requests for which I had been voted and for which I had been elected in that organization, to submit no request for resignation and to try to convince my colleagues, including Giuseppe Vacciano, not to submit requests for resignation. While respecting the will of Giuseppe Vacciano - after having since expressed myself with him the full freedom of his expression of will, I will vote in favour of his request for resignation - I completely disagree with his choice and do not want the acceptance - as I hope it happens - of his resignation to be regarded as a confirmation of the reasons why we were excluded from the Group or those for which he was excluded, in ways that frankly know more about the Communist Party of the old Soviet Union than the other. [[Senator Donno's comments.]] Now, in all this reasoning, I think it is important to highlight a point that Vacciano pointed out. It is essential that the citizens of this country can choose their representatives individually and we, or at least this Assembly and the whole Parliament - I have, in fact, voted against - with the approval of Italicum, have maintained the conditions that Giuseppe complained about, that is, the possibility for the secretariats of the parties to identify the elected members of his party, subtracting the citizens from the ability to choose their representatives, which makes the parliamentarians holders of what is provided for in Article 67 of the Constitution. Therefore, I announce my vote in favour of the request for resignation, out of respect for the Vacciano person, because each individual has the right to have the freedom to operate according to his own conscience, but I would like to stress that I do not share his motives. I also do not agree with the applause I have just heard from the 5 Star Movement, which I frankly think is politically hypocritical. [[Applause from Senators De Petris and Puppato.Comments from Group M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u88	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, Mr Vacciano, there is a conflict between two emotions, two feelings and two attitudes: on the one hand, that of respecting your will, which I believe should not be overlooked; on the other hand, that of respecting the institutions. Comrade Vacciano, she was kicked out of her group. We are outside this group, but we have read in the press that Senator Vacciano has been expelled. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] WOMAN (M5S). No! CASTALDI (M5S). You're lying! FALANGA (AL-A). From the press reports we have learned the will of your Group's leaders to expel him. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] ENDRIZZI (M5S). You explain it, Mr. President. WOMAN (M5S). No, it's not! FALANGA (AL-A). This is what I read! It seems to me that she, Senator Vacciano, challenged the mode of management of the Movement. And there too, his right to freely express his thoughts in the government of a parliamentary group was at stake. And I believe that I also want to respect that will, which others probably have not done. [[Senator Castaldi's comments.]] You see, Senator Vacciano, the main reason why I will still vote against his resignation is that in this Senate we saw an innumerable series of resignations that were ended in themselves, namely resignations for which we were certain that the Senate would reject them by established practice, except of course exceptional cases, such as the one previously mentioned by Mr Letta. What I appreciate about you, Senator Vacciano, is that you have renewed them and have not rethought about the preservation of your institutional role at this time and its place in society, but you have intended to give space and make a feeling of respect prevail, according to your point of view, of the vote that the voters have given you. I appreciate that and I believe that the Italian political class needs men like you. It is true that she expressed the desire to leave but, in respect of the Italian institutions and citizens who want a better political class, as she is able to represent, I make respect for her will prevail for that great group of Italians who want a more serious political class, more honest and more correct, as I think she can adequately represent. For this reason, together with my Group's other colleagues, in the interests of Italy, the Italians and healthy politics, I will once again vote - and I am sorry to have to mortify you in your wish - against your resignation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u91	D'ANNA (AL-A). Mr President, as Senator Falanga has already pointed out, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is to reject Mr Vacciano's request for his resignation. Although I find myself in almost all the considerations made by Senator Falanga, in relation to the speech of the lack of agility and the lack of freedom that Members have in relation to those who elected them, I must make a point of contrast to those of my previous colleague. To vote against the size of Senator Vacciano means to demonstrate to the secretaries of the parties, or to those who manage in an undemocratic way the movements of which they have control, that no control can be exercised with respect to the fact that, during his term of office, the Member appeals to his conscience and to the constitutional dictation in responding to the nation, and not to the Group or to the party from which he was nominated. Therefore, the full freedom of the parliamentarians prevails, which overrides any harassment that the secretariats of political parties or movements may exercise over any dissenting or dissenting party or movement. It is precisely to confirm the affirmation of the freedom of the Member of Parliament that we must reject the resignation of his colleague because, despite the good reasons he makes, he has the right - and I also believe the duty to respect the citizens who voted for him - to exercise his mandate as a Member of Parliament without any constraint and without any subjection or subjection to anyone. I wanted to say, then, to my friend Castaldi who has passed me today as a lover of philosophy. While Vacciano has decided to resign as a form of dissidentity with respect to the decision-making methods of the 5 Star Movement, he cannot then become a hero - I say this for a mere clarification - whose resignation must be applauded. That applause would be, in fact, the confirmation of the desire to get rid of a person who, when militating within the Group, was dissident with respect to the methodologies adopted by the Group itself. [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Bell]] I can think of an anecdote at this point. The famous Carneade of Manzoni's memory, contrary to what Manzoni delivered to the world, was a great philosopher belonging to the school of distics, so good to argue the thesis and the antithesis with the same ability. Having to decide whether Greece should pay the axes to the Romans who had occupied it, he was sent to Rome. And he was able in the Senate of Rome to support, with equal value and equal ability to convince, both the first and the second thesis. Cato took him by the ears and put him at the door saying that, in the Senate of Rome, yes is yes and no is no. You kicked him out and now you can't applaud the fact that you put him in a position to leave. And that is also why we are voting against the approval of Senator Vacciano's resignation. [[Applause from Senators Gambaro and Casaletto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u94	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since I also spoke on the previous occasion when Giuseppe Vacciano had, for the first time, submitted his resignation to this House, I do not agree with his second presentation. Giuseppe, I'm not gonna give you this present, even though it was your birthday yesterday. I wish you luck, but today I'm not giving you the gift of sending you away. For the record, I would like to point out that Giuseppe Vacciano was not sent away by the 5 Star Movement, but decided to leave the Movement as he did not agree with some internal choices coming from above, in a Group where participatory democracy has always been advocated, no matter how difficult it may be. This was the innovation that had to characterize the 5 Star Movement, but this was not the case. Vacciano left a few months ago, while I was a year and a half ago, and in two years the Movement failed to activate the famous participatory democracy. Not even among the elected, senators and MPs, it was possible to do this, because the choices have always fallen from above or come "randomly." Consequently, Giuseppe contested this line within the Group and decided to move away. Giuseppe is indeed an added value in this Parliament, he is a good person, competent and worthy to remain. You are free to decide what to do and where to go in Parliament. The Group that today applause has not moved a finger to change certain dynamics within the Movement. I therefore call on you not to let Joseph go, because - I repeat - it is an added value for Parliament and for our country, being a competent, good and honest person. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u97	SIMONI (Mist). Mr President, I would like to remind my colleagues that I am the person who went out with Joseph and that we resigned from the Senate and not from the Movement, because we are still 5 Stars, and perhaps we are more than 5 Stars of them. The problem was as follows: from the moment we resigned, our Group voted to keep us inside until the Senate sent us home. Unfortunately, a call from Casalleggio has arrived, which forced my colleagues - I am not mad at my colleagues, because they are people who are fighting for the people, and I must give them credit for this - to drive us away in a bad way. This is a fact that I do not tolerate, but I understand that my colleague Vacciano now has the desire, tired of all this, to go home. I will vote against it, because it is not fair what happened. [[Applause from Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u100	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I work with Giuseppe in the Commission and today, in view of the fact that the conflict with the 5 Star Movement emerges from the debate, I urge my colleagues, or former colleagues, not to exploit it, because this is the greatest bastard you can do to a person you are saying you love. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). You've made us the bastard! [[Live comments from Senators Airola and Endrizzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u101	Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u102	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). You lied! I'll do what I want, okay? You sent me away! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bencini, I'm calling you back to order. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bencini, I'm calling you back to order. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). You want the place! Not me, but you, because I stayed where I was! BOTTICS (M5S). I fully understand that it is difficult in this House to understand the commitment we have made to the voters. We were simple citizens who, luckily or unluckily, arrived here, but making a huge commitment to the citizens who, under the symbol of the 5 Star Movement, saw honest people. [[Comments of Senator Bencini]] Our commitment was that, when we felt that we could no longer be part of a parliamentary group, the first thing to do would be to present the resignation. Giuseppe Vacciano has continued to present his resignation to this House because he has always been consistent. It's someone I think is great. At the thought of not having any more... [[Comments of Senator Bencini]] Shut up, Bencini. Stop! [[Comments of Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u103	Senator Bencini, please allow the surgery to end. He's not entitled to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u104	BOTTICS (M5S). At the sole thought of arriving at the Finance Committee and no longer having Senator Vacciano, who is the only person in this House today who can have the title of "honorable"... [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senators Simeoni and Mussini]] And I repeat that, because it has proved consistent towards this House and towards the citizens, who have voted on a symbol or not of the people, who were completely unknown. I will reluctantly vote yes, with tears in my eyes. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I hope you can be quiet, as we've always been. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u107	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I will be very brief. Assuming that I was the Parent Company when Senator Vacciano resigned as Senator, I would like to ask the colleagues who are intervening if they spoke to him personally, if they asked him directly what he thought and wished for. I did it for a long time to convince him not to abandon the Group. And when I signed his move to the Mixed Group, with pain, I did not do it for phone calls or pressure, but because an instrumentalization was being carried out precisely by those same people who today use his speech as well. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Cardinal Senators and Cociancich]] I did so reluctantly, because we had a lot of discussions with Giuseppe Vacciano. In this Chamber we heard Senator D'Anna shoot judgements and quotes in Greek, without probably having asked him the question: But are you really determined to go home? Do you really want to stop this great commitment? We also have that freedom, but this is a place where, instead, for your exploitations, we pass over the will of the Members. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] CARDINALI (PD). Stop it! AIROLA (M5S). I have never intervened in such a matter. Respect people and do not use them, as only you can do, with parliamentarians and with Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u108	Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot on the resignation submitted by Senator Vacciano. Senators for resignation will press the green button at the center of the voting position; opposing senators will press the red button on the right; senators who intend to abstain will press the white button on the left. As this is a secret ballot vote, whatever the choice of vote is made, the light that will turn on will be neutral in colour. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. [[Applause from the PD, AL-A, CoR and Mixed Groups and Senator Fucksia. Brusio.]] Colleagues, I invite you to be quiet. AIROLA (M5S). Tell your party colleagues not to laugh! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please, we must move on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u109	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1559. The rapporteur, Senator Ricchiuti, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u110	Mr President, the draft law which this House is called upon to examine is very different from the text originally presented: a more slender and dry structure, but no less significant for the sector in which it intervenes. In fact, the objective of strengthening the saver's protection remains intact, although with measures of a technical nature and of an exquisitely sectoral value. In other words, the principle is that good regulation, shared by stakeholders, is the most appropriate tool for action in the area of savings, with a view to increasing the transparency of operators, stability and overall balance. The draft law under consideration is aimed at revising the supervisory system of financial promoters and consultants by means of a series of amendments to the Single Text of Financial Laws (Legislative Decree No 58 of 24 February 1998), with the establishment of the single register managed by a body with legal personality under private law, which will carry out the functions currently held by CONSOB, which, in turn, retains the powers of regulation and supervision over the same body. (The sitting was suspended at 12.10 p.m. and resumed at 12.10 p.m.) Legislative innovation consists of the assignment to the single register of financial advisors of the management tasks of the register in which three sections are registered for each of the professional figures concerned: financial advisors qualified for the off-site offer (which replace, under the name, financial promoters), independent financial advisors and consulting companies. The management in a single register rationalises and unifies the requirements of the same as regards the registration and verification of the existence of the requirements of the individual subjects. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u111	Senator Ricchiuti, I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u112	I would kindly ask colleagues to lower their voices, because noise does not allow us to listen to the rapporteur's report. Please, Senator Ricchiuti. RICCHUTI, rapporteur. The tasks of the body holding the register are not changed compared to the past, but are extended by the number of subjects involved. For these reasons, the draft law provides that the body itself shall use, in addition to its staff, also a quota of staff from public administrations and independent administrative authorities. As the transition from CONSOB to the body of the single register's maintenance functions is regulated, it is appropriate to provide a regulatory framework for both the supervisory authority and the same body, in order to define jointly the modalities... (The Senators Bencini and Taverna debate animatedly).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u113	Please ask Senators Bencini and Taverna to stop arguing: it's not a good show. It's not a pleasant show, Senator Bencini. Please return to your place: you have already been called back by President Grasso, that is enough. Senator Taverna, you cooperate, too. Please. TAVERNA (M5S). It had to be kicked out first! I'm in my seat! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is, in fact, Senator Bencini who must be in her place, and I have already said so. You just lower the tone of your voice. Thank you. Please allow the rapporteur to move forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u114	As the transition from CONSOB to the body of the single register's maintenance functions is regulated, it is appropriate to provide a regulatory framework for both the Supervisory Authority and the same body in order to define jointly the operating modalities, so as to determine the date of the start of both the register and the supervision and kept it by the body in charge.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u115	Senator Ricchiuti, I apologize. Senator Bencini, please be in your place. He needs to sit in his place. Step away from the benches where Senator Taverna is sitting, also because - let me tell you this - it is not civil to disturb in this way another senator who is carrying out her report. Please, Senator Ricchiuti, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u116	A further significant element of the bill is the revision of the out-of-court dispute settlement system with customers. CONSOB is given the discipline of the modalities to ensure the introduction of mechanisms of out-of-court resolution through the establishment of a special body whose members are appointed by it, with compulsory participation, able to ensure the rapid, economic solution of disputes, the contradictory between the parties and the effectiveness of the protection in the absence of greater burdens for public finance. In this regard, the draft law is coordinated with the legislation in force both as provided for in Legislative Decree No. 28 of 4 March 2010, in the matter of mediation, as well as with the aforementioned Single Finance Text. Finally, it is expected that the registration to the register is subject to the payment of a tax on government concessions, with an amendment to the decree of the President of the Republic n. 641 of 1972, also previewing that the tax is due for registrations after the date of entry into force of the law. Finally, the Finance and Treasury Commission accepted the changes requested by the Budget and Economic Programming Commission. I therefore hope that the text will be adopted as soon as possible. Madam President, I would also like to point out a mere material error in the text which I would ask you to correct: in paragraph 8 (b), the words of paragraph 1-a of Legislative Decree No 28 of 2010, to be replaced are not: "the conciliation procedure provided for in Legislative Decree No 179 of 8 October 2007, but the words: "the procedures provided for in Legislative Decree No 179 of 8 October 2007."
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u117	Report to the Offices to immediately correct the reported error.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u118	Madam President, I would first like to focus on a non-secondary aspect, the nature of the measure. What we are about to approve today, in fact, is a bill of parliamentary initiative, of which the first signatory is the President of the Finance Commission, Senator Marino, and signed by colleagues from various parliamentary groups, in which fundamental issues for citizens are regulated. I would therefore like to reiterate that this bill is a significant act both in its particular field and as an expression of the intrinsic value of the parliamentary process, of the quality of our work and of the administration of the Senate that assists us. Coming from the political need to touch the legislation on the reorganization of financial advice, it is based on the need to provide effective tools to the citizen, to the saver, to the operator, to the investor, able to make accessible an increasingly complex context, sometimes intelligible, fly of economically virtuous processes, but also of serious financial problems. The measures contained in the text that we are debating today have a value in strengthening the protection of the saver, on a sensitive front such as the promotion and advice of financial instruments, but above all they promote our desire to introduce principles of democracy into the financial sector. Clarity, transparency, knowledge and equal access to information are fundamental tools to defeat that almost mystical intangibility, made of nebulity and incomprehensibleness, which has often favoured financial crimes and losses of savings and fortunes. The draft law, as also emerged in the general report, streamlines the supervisory system on current financial promoters and financial advisors by introducing the single register of financial promoters and the payment of their registration fees. The register will be made up of three sections: financial advisors qualified for the off-site offer, independent financial advisors and advisors of financial advisors. Two figures are introduced: financial promoters engaged in off-site bidding take the name "financial advisors qualified for off-site bidding," and financial advisors referred to in Article 18-a of Legislative Decree No 58 of 1998, which take the name "independent financial advisors." To supervise the register will be the supervisory body and the sole register of financial advisors, which will operate in compliance with the principles and criteria established by CONSOB with its own regulation within six months of the adoption of the rules of operation of the renewed body and under the supervision of it. Part of the increased revenue from the single register of financial promoters, amounting to EUR 200,000, will be allocated to a special fund to be set up at the Ministry of Economy and Finance, to cover part of the costs necessary for the operation, for the year 2016, of the supervisory body and the sole register of financial advisors. Finally, not secondary, CONSOB will adopt a regulation governing the implementation of the provisions for the out-of-court settlement of disputes with the clients of financial advisors, in order to ensure the introduction of mechanisms for out-of-court settlement of disputes, efficiency, speed, cost-effectiveness of settlement of disputes, the same contradiction between the parties and the effectiveness of protection; the absence of new or increased burdens for public finance.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u119	The general debate is closed. As the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission has not been received, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u122	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take up the speech I repeated several times in previous sessions before the summer recess to ask the Presidency why it is still not responding to the questions and questions I have put. I believe that this is no longer acceptable. I would just like to say one thing which concerns me (but I believe it concerns the whole House): on the ten questions and questions I have put, Mr President, do you know how many answers have been received by the Government and the Ministers? Zero. The answers were zero. Exactly on 25 September I was proclaimed senator in this House and it is not possible that after a year I did not get an answer. I believe that this appeal which - alas - will still remain unheard must no longer be so and that there must be a real commitment from the House to ask for answers to questions and questions. It is a matter of the dignity of our role. This is no longer acceptable. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u123	Senator Amidei, I will reiterate your appeal more forcefully in the appropriate seats.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u126	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to call for the reply to Senator Giovanardi's question 2-00299 of which I am second signatory, tabled on 5 August last on the question of the groups who are advisers to the UNAR. Among these groups there is one named after a "philosopher" (so qualified) who in his only work advocates pederastia and pedophilia as fundamental in the evolution of the individual in order to prevent children from growing heterosexual and therefore, according to him, handicapped, severely frustrated and so on. We presented this interrogation more than a month ago. Last week we called for it to take place. I believe that a response from the Government would indeed be timely and indeed necessary, given that this action continues and that for this group accreditation was also requested from the Ministry of Education. The question is not complicated: it is all in the papers and there are no special investigations to be carried out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-505.ana.u127	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.26 a.m.
