ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1232-B, already approved by the House of Deputies, as amended by the Senate and again amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u9	Mr President, this measure returns after an iter that saw a first passage to the House and the Senate; then the House changed it and then sent it back to us. The House of Deputies simply did not want to adapt to the enrichments that this House had brought to the text that it had reached at first reading. The Chamber has deleted an important rule, Article 3, which replaced paragraph 2-a of Article 275 of the Code of Criminal Procedure with the following text: If the court considers that the sentence may be suspended by way of a sentence, or if it considers that the sentence may be suspended at the end of the judgment, the execution of the sentence may be suspended in accordance with Article 656, paragraph 5 of the judgment. What did they say? The Senate Justice Commission unanimously considered that the case in which the judge (not the clerk, not the clerk, not a stranger) had considered that the crime that had been committed was not of particular gravity. In these cases, it is the judge himself who believes whether this is stupid or - excuse me - a bullshit. Then why put a person in prison and deprive him of his freedom? Our constituent Fathers turn to the grave, knowing that the House of Deputies has suppressed this article of common sense. We, as a Group, had given our favourable opinion and voted in favour of this bill, precisely because it went towards constitutional guarantees. No! Blind and deaf, the Chamber and President of the Ferranti Justice Commission... Perhaps Senator Falanga is right when he says, about the European Court ruling, that he should pay the President of the Justice Commission of the House, because this Assembly and the Senate Justice Commission had approved the bill on the introduction of the torture crime more than a year ago (it was the beginning of March last year). In the House, however, they really hatched it, because it did not belong to their mentality. In their minds, there was the will to remove Article 3, which was a great guarantee, which the Senate House and the Commission had unanimously wanted. They don't let us through either. According to the House - the President of the Senate should be aware of this and I do not understand why he does not - we no longer exist. That's not constitutional suppression! They have already suppressed us, because our will is always rejected politically. Here we go forward only to increase the pains, nothing more and nothing less. If you will allow me, I would like to continue with metaphors, paradoxes and parables. Let me give you two examples: an ancient one and a recent one. You'll all remember the Pacciani case: a judge, in order to make a career, arrested that man and sentenced him, inflicting life on him because he was believed by the monster of Florence. Well, on appeal another prosecutor of the same Florence prosecutor asked for absolution, saying that an innocent man had been put in prison, only for his moral question. And yet, that judge who convicted him made a career, and we put an innocent man in jail, and we convicted him in the first degree. This example is linked to a current one, the story of Amanda Knox and Raffaele Sollecito. In this case we have even made an international, global figure: newspapers around the world laugh at Italy and Italians. But what justice is this? Five degrees: first degree, second degree, Cassation, appeal and again Cassation to arrive at an acquittal. Then why did we put them in jail? Why do we make such a fool of ourselves? Colleagues, if there were only one, two or three of these cases a year, steps: they are mistakes that can be made. But every year statistics say that 1,000, 1,200, 1,500 people, Mr. Deputy Minister, are in preventive prison as a precautionary measure, and then by the courts themselves are judged innocent. So, gentlemen, if - another paradox - I told you that cases such as those of the Italian maròs or the suicide of the Lufthansa pilot, which happened a few weeks ago, happen every year, we have to remedy it. It would be a tragedy if every year they arrested two Italian Maròs, tried them and risked the death penalty. In that case we would certainly intervene. Well, there are 1,200, 1,500 cases in the case law every year. And this is a blind and deaf senate: he doesn't even want to give the judge the chance to decide not to arrest a person who committed stupidity in a preventive way. Why do you have to put him in jail if he himself judges that he didn't do anything? So, ladies and gentlemen, that is why we want preventive prison: it is a form of torture. It is that torture for which the European Court condemned Italy for the events of the Diaz school, for which we all tear our clothes, claiming that our country does not have a law on torture. But Italy does not have the law on torture precisely because there is protective custody, which is torture. Diaz was a case in 2001, but we have 1,000 of them every year in Diaz: there are so many people who go to political pillage; there are many families who have to endure prison, because behind a imprisoned person there are an entire family, a whole group of friends who are in serious difficulty and must, therefore, suffer the pains of hell both in society and in work, as from the economic point of view. We do not then count the costs, the ease that we naturally give to lawyers, which - I repeat - only in Rome are equal, if not greater, to those of all France. And then, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot continue in this way: we have not enriched, but worse what was a limitation of precautionary measures, with the passages from the House to the Senate, until the fourth reading, for a desire that is not even "populist," because on justice the people think as I am telling you. The people, in fact, say that a leg must be amputated if it is sick and not if it is healthy: from the preventive point of view, in order not to break it in old age, it is not amputated as children, it is done instead - then yes - when it is needed and there is the diagnostic evidence of a gangrene or a serious thing. Therefore, for that torture, for which the European Court condemned us, we continue to condemn every day, because every year we have a thousand and more cases of unjustly imprisoned people. That is torture, and this is where we are sentenced and paid every year by the European Court of Justice. All professions pay on civil liability, except one, that of 007, which has a license to kill, and which we hand over the smoking gun to shoot and kill those minimal guarantees that have been given to us by our constituent Fathers. So, ladies and gentlemen, the text returned from the Chamber of Deputies, which saw the deletion of Rule 3, leads us to say - to us who voted in favour of it - a clear and strong no, because we do not want to be involved. Sooner or later, in fact, the people will really have to make that socialist revolution that we are waiting for and the executioners will have to be kicked out of the temple of democracy, such as the Senate of the Republic and the House of Deputies. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u11	Mr President, since the intervention of Senator Barani, which we have just heard, it seems that we are about to vote on a measure which extends the possibility of access to and use of protective custody. It is clear, however, that we are doing exactly the opposite: we are intervening, that is, in the fourth reading, on a text that has been perfected during the dual shuttle between the Chamber and the Senate; so that the final one may also not be perfectly adherent to the wishes of each of us, but it obviously intervenes effectively on the point that it intended to treat, making the meshes of the recourse to protective custody narrower. At this moment, we are in a very particular context, that of a country that, sanctioned just in the hours past for having subjected a group of its citizens to a very violent and very serious episode of torture, is struggling to come out of it, putting in place the remedies for a sanction applied already more than two years ago, and also in that case for having subjected a group of citizens to inhuman and degrading treatment. I am referring to people who are confined to detention institutions in a situation of overcrowding compared to the minimum standards laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights. Today we are coming out of that situation: we have not yet fully realized it, but we are doing it laboriously. It is certain, however, that the current situation of prison overcrowding, compared to January 2013, has changed a great deal. It is true that we are in a situation of slight overcrowding. The most recent data, last February, speak of an overcrowding rate of 108 percent: 108 people out of 100 places, then rising to 122 if we consider the places in prison institutions that are not available today due to renovation work. We are talking, that is, of a total population of 54,000 prisoners, compared to a capacity of almost 50,000 places. We are still in a situation of overcrowding, but we have 8,000 less inmates than in January 2013. It is clear, therefore, that our country is giving a reply to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, Torreggiani, of January 2013, also thanks to the work of Parliament and the Government. Among the many still obscure points, however, one still remains very serious, namely the percentage of the restrictions in our prisons in state of protective custody. If we go to see that figure, we are still completely out of the European average. At this moment the percentage is 34.8% of the total number of prisoners: therefore, more than a third of the prisoners in our prisons are in custody or with a non-final sentence, compared with a European average of 21.5%. This is one of the most urgent situations. The draft law before us, which I hope will be finally adopted today, is in the right direction. Meanwhile, it goes in the direction of limiting the discretion of the judge in the application of the protective custody, limiting cases where the danger of escape or the situation of possible recurrence of the crime can be used as grounds for the protective custody. Therefore, the element of the current situation is inserted alongside that of concreteness, to define the danger or not of the prisoner, with respect to the danger of escape or recurrence of the crime, and it is expected that it cannot be the title of the crime itself to define the danger of escape or recurrence of the crime, but to evaluate the concrete case, motivating it in an explicit and appropriate manner. I would like to say a few words about the case previously mentioned by my colleague, Mr Barani, concerning the deletion by the Chamber of Deputies of Article 3 of the draft law. In the Senate we had inserted a very important article - Article 3 - according to which the measure of detention in prison cannot be applied, if the judge considers that, by final judgment, the suspended sentence can be granted. However, there is one technical reason why the Chamber of Deputies deleted this article: the fact is that an almost identical measure has already been approved, with the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 92 of 2014, on compensations to prisoners and changes to the prison order, in which we have established that the judge cannot apply the measure of detention in prison if he considers that, after the outcome of the sentence, the detention will not exceed three years. There is, therefore, a wider margin than the limit of two years under which a suspended sentence is granted. There was therefore no step backwards, not even on this point. We have also provided that the obligation of detention in prison is defined only for some very serious crimes, namely the subversive association, the terrorist association and the mob association. Other very serious crimes have remained outside this obligation: I am thinking - for example - of all offences relating to child abuse, sexual violence, sexual violence against children, Article 416-b of the Criminal Code (the political-mafia electoral exchange) and drug trafficking, which have been removed from the text approved by the House of Deputies. In this regard too, however, it should be recalled that in these cases the possibility of detention in prison is not precluded: it is merely expected that the judge, when defining the measure of detention in prison, may also provide for the possibility of imposing a different measure on him. We therefore leave a margin of discretion, that discretion which was also imposed on us by a judgment of the Constitutional Court, which defined that in these cases the alternative to detention in prison should be maintained. I recall another important measure, which we have already discussed at the time, when we adopted this measure. I am referring to the adoption of the measure of the electronic bracelet, even providing that the judge must specify why, in case of protective custody, the measure of the control procedures referred to in Article 275-a, paragraph 1, that is precisely the measure of the electronic bracelet, has not been preferred. Furthermore, I would like to point out as a positive aspect of this text that there is no longer any automatism of the obligation of protective custody in the event of a violation of house arrest or of previous evasion. Even in such cases, protective custody is not precluded, but even in view of the existence of very small situations of wrongdoing of the obligation to stay (I think of the case in which you have left your home to go down to the courtyard of the house), it is left to the judge to decide whether or not the revocation of that measure should be applied. I conclude with a reference to the second part of the title of this bill, which seems to me to be a very important measure, namely the extension of the possibility of visiting relatives, children or even living with serious disabilities. I must remind you that there is still one point on which we must work with respect to the presence of prisoners in our prisons. In other words, we must work more on the theme of family relations, on the subject of family access in prison, on the topic of the calls of prisoners to their families, on the question of the possibility that the stay in prison may not represent a moment of laceration of family affections and social relations. It must be a time when, within the re-educational process, the family, the social relationship, the reference group can become an element of the re-education and social reintegration of the excluded. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u12	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u13	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u14	The rapporteur confines himself to a very brief reply, touching on some of the issues raised during the general discussion. Article 656 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the prohibition of the issue of personal custody orders whenever the provision is made not only for the possible suspension of the sentence, but also for the suspension of the execution of the sentence. As Senator Barani rightly said, the matter has been discussed a long time and the Senate had also introduced the provision then removed from the House. However, it must be said - as the rapporteur has always pointed out - that prognostic assessments are always extremely ineffective in issuing protective measures in prison, especially when the prognostic evaluation must embrace facts that occur after the conviction. Article 656 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is, in fact, a rule dedicated to enforcement, the rule of opening the regulatory provisions for the enforcement of criminal convictions. In a verse, therefore, we have an extremely difficult prognostic judgment, the transgression of which it will be almost impossible to reproach anyone and, on the other hand, these events which, compared to the initial phase of the process, are characterized by the intervention of facts objectively completely unpredictable. So it is, by one verse, a rule that would certainly not have worked and, on the other hand, a request for prognostic judgment certainly impossible. I turn to the question of presumptions, that is to say to the third paragraph of Article 275. There are many amendments in this respect or, better, more than the few amendments tabled. In the meantime, there is one aspect to be clarified. Senator Lo Giudice has just spoken on the subject. I would just like to say a few words about this. The fact that, for a crime, there is no provision for compulsory detention in prison does not mean that such a measure cannot be disposed of. There is a shift from a compulsory regime to an optional regime. The judge is left free to assess whether for that fact, for how it has been realized concretely, for that personality and for how it manifests itself through the examination of the modalities of execution of the fact, of its possibly specific precedents, it is necessary to intervene with such a drastic measure. To exclude, therefore, from the third paragraph of Article 275 certain offences does not mean that, for those same offences, protective custody in prison cannot be established. There is also a need to observe - and here I give an answer, allowing me not to give it in the course of the explanations of vote when voting on individual amendments - that this matter is dealt with in an absolutely complete manner by numerous judgments of the Constitutional Court, the penultimate of which is judgment No 57 of 2013 and the last is judgment No 48 of 2015 (audience of 24 February of this year of the Constitutional Court). With this last sentence, basically a season of the Constitutional Court is closed which has been repeatedly pronounced, excluding from the number of offences included within the provisions characterized by presumption - for example - the murder, sexual violence or the crime provided for in article 74 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 309 of 1990, that is the association for criminals aimed at the trafficking of drugs. It is therefore unthinkable that Parliament should be able to re-introduce provisions which the Constitutional Court has excluded from the scope of the offences included in the third paragraph of Article 275. With reference - for example - to the external competition in Mafia association, the Constitutional Court has resumed a well-known jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation, stating that the external competitor intervenes occasionally, where the presumption must lambire associative contexts characterized by permanent participations. Precisely in the space characterized by the conceptual difference between permanent participation (who participates daily) and occasional events there is also the answer to the impossibility of introducing 416-ter, the so-called vote of exchange, which is characterized, precisely, by occasional participations linked to events of an electoral nature. Obviously - the adverb is mandatory, because it reflects the truth of the facts - the Senate had introduced the faculty for the college to arrange an office postponement for particularly complex events. It seemed to us that this provision was reasonable, so we do not believe that there was any legal error and certainly there was no legal error because the rule was symmetrical to that laid down for ordinary judgment, where the college may, on the basis of the particular complexity, also have a longer time limit for drawing up the statement of reasons and its subsequent filing. The Chamber considered that the court of freedom could not, of its own motion, defer neither the term of the decision nor the subsequent period of deposit of the reasons in support of the decision taken; and it did so on the basis of the principle that we could summarize with the side of the favor libertatis. The Senate then considered, at the third reading in the Commission, that it should not lead to a further delay in the entry into force of a text which is clearly considered important, necessary and, inter alia, symmetrical, if I may make this comparison, to the so-called 'empty prisons'. We had to intervene not only on convictions, but also on precautionary custody because the statistics of the Ministry of Justice, which for us are an obvious point of reference, gave indications about an excessive number of prisoners in custody. So this rule is part of a legislative initiative taken by this Parliament we could say at its beginning, when three "empty prison" measures were launched precisely to give a response to what was the criminal emergency presented at the beginning of the parliamentary term, that is, an excessive number of prisoners. On the other hand, the results have come if it is true, of course, that there has been a reduction of 11,000 prisoners precisely as a result of the provisions of law initially launched by this Senate. Furthermore, I repeat that with my reply I also respond to some of the questions raised with the amendments since the general discussion highlighted the various amending proposals and the reply should also serve to give an early response to these issues. Some honourable senators had introduced a further disciplinary offence: the letter q-bis) of the introductory law of the typicalization of disciplinary offences of the magistrates, relating to the case of a magistrate, or better to say of a college, who had deposited a decree of freedom in time after those peremptori within which the measure must be deposited, determining the loss of effectiveness of the measure itself. It was considered that this letter q-bis ) was superfluous because there is already a letter q ) in the legislative text when we examine the delay in the filing of the measures. It was also considered that the actual sanction provided for such exceeding of peremptory terms was, as it actually is, the loss of effectiveness of the protective custody order and that therefore there was already a sanction for the case of the delay, sanction with, I believe, a greater importance than the provision of a disciplinary illegal which, I repeat, already exists in letter q. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u15	Mr President, many points have already been made by the rapporteur, which have taken up the points made in the various speeches and which have touched on many aspects of this measure. Protective custody, i.e. the deprivation of liberty before the final conviction, is certainly a complex issue and is reflected very much in the data provided by Senator Lo Giudice who shows that in our prisons there is a particularly high percentage of prisoners in protective custody. This measure aims precisely to provide an answer to this problem, but it must be seen in conjunction with the decree cited by the rapporteur, No 92 of 2014, which has taken up some aspects of it. That decree touches on a point that I believe will be fundamental to deal with, which is that of the prognosis. It is clear that a prognostic analysis is delegated to the judge with regard to an assessment of the sentence or the application of the conditional suspension. From this point of view, it will be of great importance to have an assessment of the progress and validity of these prognosis. Article 17 of the measure in question, relegated to the text, is therefore very significant since it states: By 31 January each year, the Government shall submit to the Chambers a report containing data, surveys and statistics relating to the application, in the previous year, of personal protective measures, broken down by type, with an indication of the outcome of the relevant proceedings, if concluded. Through this investigation we will evaluate the path that has touched on the various precautionary measures. Finally, I take up some considerations made by Senator Barani, to say that it is true that our system provides for a remedy, the institute of reparation for unjust detention, and it is true that this institute since 1991 has led the State to pay the equivalent of 580 million euros to over 23,000 people. This figure is very significant and helps to make urgent the adoption of the measure under consideration, which brings to our criminal system a fundamental principle, which can be summarized as follows: prison when there is the absolute inadequacy of any other measure. It is clear that it will then be case law that declines these aspects and principles, but I believe that this bill represents a step forward from Parliament and the parliamentary Commission which have taught it very carefully. Above all, I repeat once again, this is a measure that must be seen in combination with Decree-Law No 92 of 2014, which has extrapolated an important part of it that cannot but be interpreted as a whole with what the Senate faces today.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u16	Collegi, there is a representation of the Institute including Leonardo da Vinci of Cavallino, in the province of Lecce. We greet the teachers and students who are following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u17	We proceed to the examination of the articles, in the text including the amendments made by the Chamber of Deputies. I note that articles 3 and 16 of the text approved by the Senate at first reading have been deleted by the Chamber of Deputies. The Presidency also warns that only articles modified by the House of Deputies will be put to the vote, with the amendments referred to them. I recall that Articles 1 and 2 are identical to Articles 1 and 2 of the text approved by the Senate and that Article 3 is identical to Article 4 of the text approved by the Senate. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, which corresponds to Article 5 of the text approved by the Senate, on which amendments have been tabled, which I call on the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u18	Mr President, we have proposed two amendments, 4,100 and 4,101, on which I think a reflection can be made. Article 4 provides for cases of automatic protective custody, i.e. cases where serious offences are committed for which protective custody is deemed to apply unless evidence is acquired that there are no precautionary requirements. In addition to the crimes already foreseen in Article 4, the Group of the North League, also considering the issue of counter-terrorism, which is currently under discussion in the Commission and which will be before the House, believes that it is very important to include the hypothesis referred to in Article 270-c of the penal code (i.e. the enlistment for purposes of terrorism also international). In view of the issue, we believe that this possibility of crime should be included in Article 4. Moreover, precisely because of the very high danger of some criminal cases, with the subsequent amendment 4101 we propose to introduce among the crimes for which the protective custody can be automatically applied also the crimes referred to in Article 74 of the single text of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 309 of 1990 (i.e. the law on drugs). Article 74 provides for the possibility of criminality in relation to the association aimed at the illicit trafficking of drugs. This is also a very serious criminal hypothesis. The association aimed at illicit drug trafficking is something extremely dangerous. Therefore, we believe that this hypothesis should also be included in the offences already provided for in Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u19	Mr President, Article 5 of this provision, as approved by the Senate of the Republic, provided for an exception, in the application of the provisions of this amendment to the protective custody regime, for the offences referred to in Article 416-a of the Criminal Code, except in the text amended by the Chamber, but also for 416-b (the political-mafia exchange). I wonder, and I ask you, why every time Parliament comes to legislate on this article of the penal code, 416-b, the changes are always put down. Of course, at the bottom of the protection of citizens' rights against those responsible for this, which is one of the worst crimes provided for in the penal code, namely the political-mafia electoral exchange: I am elected thanks to the votes required of the mafia. Not only us as 5 Star Movement, but as the Justice Commission, we had asked for an exception (which was actually contained in Article 5) to this article, as well as to others who are cited (Article 270 on terrorism and related crimes, and also the Mafia association), for the application of this regime which, of course, was intended to limit itself to cases of crime as serious as this. The scope of amendment 4.2, which I am presenting, simply seeks to re-introduce this exception to the application of the rule, just as we are now approving it, with regard to the cases of the crimes referred to in Article 416-b, as well as Article 74 of the Single Text, as provided for in the decree of the President of the Republic No 309 of 1990, namely those relating to the trafficking of drugs and drugs.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u20	Mr President, together with Senator Cappelletti, I would ask you to sign Amendment 4.4, so that we can present it together with Amendment 4.3 in my name. I would like to remind you that in just a few weeks seven Italian regions will be called to vote again, even with the expression of preferences. There will therefore be thousands of candidates who, in the seven Italian regions, will once again compare with a vote expressed with preferences. What better opportunity does this Parliament have to re-introduce Article 416-b into the list of offences for which there is a jurisoff presumption (which can be contradicted) in the sense that personal protective measures should be applied with the strictest measure of custody, i.e. prison? Why not repair the damage done by the House in the part where it excluded article 416-b from these categories of crime? Amendment 4.4 therefore aims to heal the vulnus inflicted by the House on this provision of law, ensuring that the political-mafia electoral exchange (with which we fear that some candidates from here to the next weeks should be, or should be, compared) is included among those crimes for which the presumption of adequacy of prison detention is valid instead of home detention. Amendment 4.3 aims to include in the same category of offences also those against public administration and the administration of justice. For this type of crime we ask that the presumption - which admits the contrary proof - be valid so that the measure of protective custody is the prison and not the home. This is not because we are insane justiceists who want full prisons, indeed: I remember that, when we talked about the prison plan, the 5 Star Movement made pragmatic proposals aimed at finding a solution to the problem of prison overcrowding. Rather, it is a matter of giving a signal of severity and coherence on the part of politics with regard to those very serious events which are both as crimes against the public administration, and as political-mafia electoral exchange.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u21	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u22	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments to Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u23	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u24	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4101, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). (Senator Campanella reports a malfunction of the electronic device). Does the Presidency note your vote, Senator, that it would be in favour or against? CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). That's against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.3 tabled by Senator Buccarella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I recall that Articles 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 are identical to Articles 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 of the text approved by the Senate. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11, which corresponds to Article 12 of the text approved by the Senate, on which an amendment has been tabled which I call on the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u25	Mr President, with Amendment 11.1 it is proposed to re-insert a rule which had been adopted by the Senate and then - in my opinion, unwisely - removed during the examination in the other branch of Parliament. This is a rule of absolute common sense, in order to allow the postponement from five to ten days of the time limit within which the court must take a reasoned decision, thus avoiding the two remaining alternatives, that is to say to make a hasty decision without having read the papers (when, of course, the case is particularly complicated) or to leave the time limits to run with the consequent cessation of the effects of the request for protective custody, which perhaps in some cases, precisely because the case is complex, would be appropriate for it to remain. It is a rule of common sense, which the Senate had approved at first reading; it seems logical to me to reiterate its opportunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u26	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u27	Mr President, the rapporteur spoke on this subject, already anticipating the opinion. I am therefore calling for a withdrawal or otherwise against Amendment 11.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u28	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u29	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I recall that Articles 12, 13, and 14 are identical to Articles 13, 14 and 15 of the text approved by the Senate. We shall now proceed to the examination of Amendment No 14.0.1, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u30	Mr President, Amendment 14.0.1 also contains a rule which we adopted at first reading and which has been deleted by the House. It provides that it is unlawful to regulate the non-practice of the appropriate procedures provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure within the prescribed time period, thus determining the release of persons because the documentation has not been transmitted. It would be normal for this to constitute a disciplinary offence. Any professional or official who let an important term lapse, which even determines the nullity of an act that is presumed to be motivated (because otherwise it would not have been even requested), would certainly be, at least, sanctioned disciplinedly. It would therefore be logical that the defaulting magistrate should also be so; in fact, the Senate had voted in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u31	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u32	Mr President, I would like to make a request for withdrawal, otherwise I am against Amendment 14.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u33	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u34	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.0.1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.1, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I recall that Article 15 is identical to Article 17 of the text approved by the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u37	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are once again talking about this measure. Perhaps the tension that we, as a Group of the North Legacy, have raised as a result of all the various so-called empty prisons proposed and unfortunately approved by this majority and this Government has also been eased at this time. Perhaps this seems a bit tarnished, but we believe that this measure can also be part of the political delety of managing the prison situation, with the whole series of various empty prisons. Last year in this very House we discussed the use of the institution of protective custody. The latter is certainly a useful and important institution, which gives a huge signal not only to criminals, but certainly also to those who are offended by the crime, who at least can see an immediate position taken by justice. If we then take into account the time and length of the trial, probably the best satisfaction that the offended person can have is to see immediately applied the protective custody. This does not happen or does not happen well. In fact, until some time ago, the prison population had a very high percentage of prisoners in custody. That's probably because of an abuse of the institute. Well, we do not want to see any form of anticipation of condemnation; forms in which the atonement of punishment can take place at such a previous and perhaps even unfair time. Unfortunately, they jump to the honors of the chronicle in which, to the protective custody they have followed sentences of full acquittal. In this respect, we share the concern about the application of this institute, but not about the lack of goodness of the institute itself, but about the problems related to the interpretation of the rules and therefore the application of the institute in practice. We believe, as we have always believed and argued, that we need to reform preventive detention, but not that we get to the point of assessing the dismantling of the institution of protective custody. This is not the time to talk about dismantling the rigour of criminal rules and the rules of criminal procedure. We are for a firm application of the rules. Unfortunately, however, bills such as this arise not from the need to reform the institution of protective custody. In fact, if you check the dates well, you start talking about this bill at the moment when we were discussing the very serious problem of the overcrowding of prisons; when the judgment was issued Torreggiani and there was the idea that Italy had been sanctioned by Europe. We arrive at this bill when the prisons have already been partially emptied, and this thanks to a set of measures that we have strongly opposed; those measures that led to early release, the application of house arrests and the institutionalized prediction of the house imprisonment as one of the penalties. Measures for which the institute of testing has been discussed; recently also the infamous legislative decree that has implemented the delegation on decriminalization, with the forecast of non punishableness for a huge number of crimes when these are small. All these deleterious measures have been adopted by this Government and its majority not to restructure and reform the system of criminal law and criminal procedure, but with the only and only objective of solving a problem, among other things emerging, relating to prison overcrowding; a problem that could be tackled in a very different way, perhaps also exploiting projects that had already been born and that have already existed for years, such as the so-called prison plan. Rules that provided for the opening of new prison institutions as well as the continuation of a type of negotiation, also at international level, in order to make expiating foreigners the penalty in their country of origin. I took note yesterday in the Commission of what some of my colleagues in the majority have said about the fact that agreements are actually being made. We note this with great satisfaction because it was the North League that suggested this line and continued to insist on this issue, but when we said so in this House we were being accused as usual of racism, bullying xenophobia, while in the end we understand that these are useful measures to be taken. When the League says so, however, it always seems a bad and dirty thing, while when it is done by others it is the most reasonable thing in the world. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] At present we are faced with a concrete fact: there are more than 30,000 people subject to alternative measures, so they are not in prison but outside; in this regard, a consideration has been made by the same members of the majority about who follows, assists and controls these people. That is why, even yesterday evening, during the debate on the anti-terrorism decree, I and my colleagues Divine and Stucchi proposed a series of amendments aimed at increasing the police force. Whatever kind of operation is being carried out, both for anti-terrorism, as we proposed yesterday, and for these alternative measures that we are talking about now, we consider it appropriate, in conjunction with this type of measure, at least to take the decision to increase the police forces in order to carry out checks also on the same house arrests. In the end we have not been heard, but I hope we will be heard in the future. Today we are talking about this measure, which in some ways may seem unspeakable or procedural, but which in the end conceals certainly not a small hypothesis. Unfortunately, we have rejected two of our amendments, which we considered very important. It is true that protective custody must be applied in the presence of certain requirements and, in fact, if we talk about this, there must be precautionary requirements: in our opinion, one of the best precautionary requirements is to respond to people offended by the crime and to the whole country in the face of certain criminal episodes. Those who are involved, for example, in an association aimed at drug trafficking or in a hypothesis of enlisting in activities with the aim of terrorism also international, in our opinion, must go to jail immediately. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The trials, in fact, as was said before, eventually last and you all need to respond to people by saying that we are doing a serious repression of crime and crime. This type of mechanism must also go through "prevention" measures and the best prevention is to show that there is a penalty and its certain and rigorous application. It is useless to take measures such as those voted a few days ago regarding anti-corruption, providing for the raising, the worsening and a seemingly greater penalty, if then at the time of their application in our country, when they are given into the hands of our judicial offices and lawyers, we offer on the plate - as you did - a whole set of penitentiary benefits to the criminals, so that in the end a condemned, in Italy, the jail does not do it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u40	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV)). Mr President, I repeat what I said in general debate: personally - but I think I can say that for a large part of my Group too - unlike many of my colleagues, I do not take lessons from Mrs Ferranti, President of the Chamber's Justice Commission. As you are not disobedient and undisciplined students, we say to you that you do not consider your changes to be appropriate, adequate or correct: we do not take lessons from you, who degraded and reduced the Senate to a mere Chamber of ratification of your will. Nor do I share Mr Stefani's last statement in explanation of vote, which I admire and admire, which said that no one is going to jail anyway. No, dear Erika, there are 54,000 people in prison: they are data from the Ministry of Justice, confirmed also by my colleague Lo Giudice, who I do not know what therapy he proposes, since, after having made a proper diagnosis, he surrenders saying: "Everything goes well, Madame the Marquise." The figure for which 34.8% of prisoners are awaiting trial, considering that about 50 percent of them will be found innocent, is not really from a civilized country. The European Court of Human Rights sanctions us every year, condemns us, tells us that we do not have adequate laws, we do not respect the Constitution, Articles 27 and 107 of the Constitution do not apply. In his speech, Deputy Minister Costa informed us of even more dramatic data, saying that in recent decades the State has paid EUR 580 million - more than half a billion - for compensation for unjust detention, because 23,000 people, not just one, have been in prison, to be judged innocent. Is this a democratic and civilized country data? In particular, I would like to address my fellow Members who speak of socialist culture, No, it is not: a figure of this kind is precisely communist, anti-democratic and totalitarian cultures. Senator Buccarella is right when he speaks of criminalist madmen: he said it in another way and I agree with him because the speeches are of this tenor. Our prisons are overcrowded. What is the difference between those who cause the death of a person in an unbloody way and those who cause it in a bloody way? The victim dies anyway. Overcrowding is such, both with a percentage of 108 percent and with a percentage of 122 percent. Link The Judge, we can not speak of an overcrowding percentage of 108 percent, because we can not count also the structures in the process of restructuring, if the places are not usable. Considering this, the overcrowding is therefore 122 percent and not 108 percent: let's say the right numbers to the sovereign people and let's say that if there are 54,000 prisoners and 49,000 places available, that means there are 5,000 more inmates. So there is an overcrowding, which will not be like that of the 60,000 inmates, about a couple of years ago, but which is always overcrowding. Do you know why we don't have the overcrowding we used to have? Not for the decree emptys prisons, but for an amendment approved by me in the Commission, which raised from four to five years the penalty limit under which no prior imprisonment is expected. It was that amendment that prevented 6,000 or 7,000 people from going to prison. It is thanks to an amendment by a guarantor and a socialist: I do not know how you approved it! The President of the Republic pro tempore Napolitano in a message addressed to the Chambers said that, although he had done this and praised the Senate for being a guarantor and civilized, he urged us to take other initiatives, such as indult and amnesty. It takes the courage and ability that our constituent Fathers had, including Togliatti, who at that time considered to rebuild Italy from the ruins of fascism, with dignity and awareness, with ability and writing in Article 27 of the Constitution that the penalties cannot allow treatment contrary to the sense of humanity and must aim for the re-education of the condemned, which instead does not happen. You said that and the rapporteur, Mr D'Ascola, said that I appreciate it and that he raised his hands; without reference to the teacher, he implicitly gave up, saying that he is and therefore had to adapt: little is better than nothing. But we should have had more courage. Then, ladies and gentlemen, there is the Pinto law, which is applied to any body in disciplinary action, that is, anyone who creates damage to the State, the State pays and then there is disciplinary action against those who have wronged. Why is this not applied to judges? Why is the Pinto law not also applied to justice, ladies and gentlemen? Why, Mr. Deputy Minister, doesn't this happen? Does it mean respecting the Constitution? Are we all equal before the law or not? No, we're not the same, because the Pinto law applies to everyone but the judges. I am not talking at this time about the civil responsibility of the magistrates, but I am asking that there be at least disciplinary action against those who have erred and imprisoned 23,000 people, as the Deputy Minister told us, who have compensated for almost 600 million euros. I am not saying that he should be subjected to the psycho-aptitudinal visits that everyone should make, and the case of Lufthansa's co-pilot, who has killed 150 people, is a clear proof of this. But why not apply it also to magistrates, who lead to death in prison, which is judicial death, thousands of people every year unjustly detained? Pannella is right when he strikes for thirst and hunger, because he wants to provoke to excess so that we can understand what is the philosophy of our Constitution, which obviously leads us to say that we had to have more courage and we did not have to take lessons from the chamber teacher, because if the average of the European Union, dear Senator Lo Giudice, is 21.5% of custody pending judgment, we cannot have 34.8%, because it means that in Italy it does not work. We cannot have 122 percent prison overcrowding at the Auschwitz, because that is what Article 27 of our Constitutional Charter says. While initially sharing this bill, because a little is better than nothing and a glass of water is better than dying of thirst, ours today is a political no because we can not take lessons from those who have neither culture, nor ability, nor above all history, nor DNA to give them to us and should instead humbly stand there and take notes from those who made Italy, that once was great, but now it is humiliated day after day, including the incredible history of our maròs that we will send back to India to have them tried, obviously losing dignity at international level. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's hope not.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u43	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I should also like to make a brief comment, because most of the political considerations on this text have already been made at second reading and because the changes that have been made by the House do not, in our view, distort the text and therefore allow us, as we did a few months ago, to vote in favour of it, for a number of reasons that have been said several times over these months and which have been recalled in part in the debate we have heard this morning. Of course, many considerations have already been made in the past, in particular on the very high number of prisoners subject to protective custody in our country, even awaiting the first judgment, and on very strict statistics according to which a significant part of these prisoners will then actually be innocent to the trial, that is on the underlying fact - this is the only political consideration I want to make this morning - that from our point of view seems to be acceptable on this measure. This measure is a reversal of the trend in relation to a move that has been going through the Parliament of our country for many months now. According to this I go the only way to solve the problems of the country is to increase the penalties and do it in a very considerable way and to think substantially that the only answer to the problems of Italy is prison. We believe that in this simplification there is a great deal of the mistakes that have been made over all these years. We will discuss this extensively when the anti-terrorism decree arrives next week. We will discuss well what limitations and mechanisms must be imagined even when we talk about serious crimes to safeguard personal and individual freedoms, but the underlying point that we would like to stress is what we, despite everything, still seem to be very advanced in the constitutional dictation. The constituent Fathers when they imagined prison as extreme ratio had not become goodists. Evidently, they had done so because they had grasped some basic aspects of the society of this country and had studied the most appropriate laws of the world. They were children of a very particular political season and had understood that the great issues opened in our time are not simply solved through repression, but in many other ways. Repression is good that there is when it is needed, but the idea that only through repression and the committing of often very severe penalties, especially for the socially less guaranteed, is itself a theme of solving the problems of the country seems to us a profound cultural degeneration. We would like to discuss this with the Minister and also about the trend and trend that of all these months. Is it possible that even in the face of major social concerns (from environmental crime to corruption, through anti-terrorism offences), the only antidote that a democratic state can put in place is the years of imprisonment that are commensurate? Is it possible that the democratic state will open up to imagine whether there can be other solutions capable of producing better results in the fight against organised and non-organised crime? That is the basic question that we feel we are asking. We know that this is a complex question, this is the time of simplification, in which the miserable propaganda serves to take extra votes, but we do not accept this idea. In the past years, when the states were a little less democratic, they used the famous adage "Feasts, flour and forks." We do not want the economic crisis in this historical phase and, therefore, the money to make the holidays there are none and there is not even too much flour to distribute, we use only the gallows as an element and instrument of social calming to throw to the public some elements of propaganda. We're going to have a cultural battle from this point of view. We are starting it today; we have started it in these months by voting in favour of these measures. We will insist on the issue that the open issues in our country, even the sensitive ones we are debating this morning, do not simply resolve with the repressive constraints, which obviously have a usefulness, but must be contextualized in a broader dimension, of which, instead, our national Parliament has completely renounced to debate for many years on this side. If today Italian justice appears in the eyes of the citizens as a distant, separate thing and an indistinguishable magma within which the weakest risks being in difficulty and the strongest risk of getting away with it is also because Parliament has completely renounced in recent years to carry out this reflection which, in our opinion, is very serious. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u46	Mr Albertini (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, John Adams, the second President of the United States (not to be confused with John Quincy Adams, the sixth President of the United States), in December 1770, defending British soldiers after the Boston massacre, used an expression that was repeated several times, and that I too make in the beginning of my short speech: "Facts are stubborn things," the facts are stubborn arguments. And the dramatic facts about our case are these: in February 2015 some 54,000 Italian citizens were detained in Italian prisons. Among these, almost half, 42 percent (over 23,000 people), are held for precautionary reasons, i.e. without a conviction justifying their deprivation of liberty. This is a double dramatic figure, not only in itself but also in comparison with other countries. Only Turkey, in the countries with which we have neighbourhood relations, has a higher percentage than ours, 60%. Other civil countries, France has a 23%, Spain a 20%, Britain a 16%, the European Union on average a 21%. Almost half of our fellow citizens are therefore detained for precautionary reasons. From these data it would appear that our Minister is a State of Police, not a State of Law or Justice. Yet Article 27 of the Constitution provides that each of us, even if we are under investigation or a trial against him, shall be deemed innocent until a judgment passed in court. What I have described is the dramatic situation in which this measure tends, with shortcomings, with limits, but certainly with good intentions, to remedy. How does he do that? With some interventions starting first of all from the basic concept that when it comes to precautionary measures, consideration must be given to the aspect of caution in relation to a danger, what can happen if these alternative measures are not taken. Different is the case of a damage event. In addition to the indications of grave guilt, which existed even before, in addition to the aspect of the evidentiary pollution, which concerned the concrete possibility that it could happen, another adjective has been introduced which has a fundamental importance in the appreciation of the validity of the motivations and is that the evidentiary pollution is considered a matter of topicality. In many cases, we have had some reasons for actions that deprive us of personal freedom for events dating back to previous years. It is difficult to imagine a probative pollution for facts on which we were investigating, dating back to four or five years before; you see the danger of escape, the recurrence of the crime and for accusatory hypotheses that have as their prediction of penalty a penalty not less than five years. All this is part of an equally holistic overall concept that makes the precautionary measure - and in the measure is repeated several times - as a residual element when other less grievous measures, such as house arrests, the electronic bracelet or other facts of this nature, can meet the requirements of caution, allowing to get out of a situation of danger, as was said before, without intervening on the deprivation of freedom. In addition to these elements, the size of the explanatory statement for the adoption of such grievous measures is strengthened, and not only of the public prosecutor's statement but of the self-explanatory statement of the judge who decides on the public prosecutor's request for the application of precautionary measures; which has almost never happened. The judge for preliminary investigations, in most cases, has only signed, without any determination of the facts, the motivational assumptions of the prosecutor. The judge is therefore assigned his own role as a super-partisan institution and requires an independent and different assessment, an assessment for his decisions. This principle of defence of the accused also applies in the case of the appeal, for which a time limit is provided, no longer authorising i.e. without sanctions. In this case, the sanction provided for is the ineffectiveness of the measure of subtraction of freedom. I appeal to you, Minister, who is in charge of disciplinary action together with the Prosecutor General at the Court of Cassation. In an amendment that we rejected in the Chamber, we had proposed that it should proceed automatically with disciplinary action on its part and on the part of the Attorney General at the Supreme Court of Cassation, where it was found, as happened in 25 years for 23,000 cases with almost 600 million compensation from the State, the obligatory activation of disciplinary action in respect of judges who had become responsible for serious facts such as the arbitrary and unjust deprivation of the freedom of our fellow citizens. I conclude, after having explained the seriousness of the situation in which we find ourselves, with a positive note: our Group will vote in favour of this measure but would also like, and I interpret this requirement in the short seconds that separate me from the conclusion, to reconsider the provision that has been dismissed by the House and that allows the "gardener" - that is to say the Minister of Justice - to shear the hedge when it is overflowing, namely that in the case of an overflowing action of the judiciary, sometimes abusive as in the cases I have described, it does to the full its part so that this does not happen and is contained in a State of law what the stubborn facts have shown to have become (considered the number of citizens deprived of freedom without legitimate causes for this to happen) a police state. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u49	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, in the first parliamentary passage, the 5 Star Movement voted in favour of this bill. We are now calling for a second vote on the changes made by the House of Deputies, which, in our view, are worsening, especially as regards the reduction of crimes for which the presumption of adequacy of the personal prison precautionary measure is valid. We have said this before, and we should repeat this message and this motivation. In just over a month thousands of candidates in seven Italian regions and as many, and perhaps even more, in hundreds of municipalities, will go to the vote. A crime provided for in article 416-b of the penal code, which last year, with the strenuous opposition of the 5 Star Movement, has been modified in the sense of reducing edittal penalties, with substantial emptying of its sanctioning nature: it is the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange. This is the ganglo through which the mafia powers, with their economic power and blackmail, are widely present not only in the historically distinguished regions as parts of the Italian territory under the yoke or where there is a very important presence of organized crime, but, as we know well now also in virtue of the great scandals that we talk about, throughout the national territory. The electoral moment is the delicate one, where the mafia and a certain politics shake hands, sign agreements and contribute greatly to the decline of this country. The exclusion from the House - and it would be really interesting to understand what dynamics, in the other branch of Parliament, have involved such a change - the crime referred to in Article 416-b from the crime for which the presumption of adequacy of the prison measure is valid instead of that of the precautionary house, is a great question mark, which causes our Parliamentary Group to change its final vote on the entire bill in a abstention vote. Once again, in fact, we must take a bitter note that an opportunity has been missed, because the majority of political parties have a clear will to maintain an area of impunity or, in any case, a criminality as slight as possible in the face of contacts with organized crime of the mafia type. We think that all this is incomprehensible to the vast majority of our fellow citizens, it is a decision that must be strongly stigmatized and it is the reason why the 5 Star Movement will not vote favorably to the measure, not to mention the failure to accept an amendment of ours, which would also have provided for crimes against the public administration in the number of crimes for which to impose the prison sentence, in case of the existence of all the requirements of the law to impose a limitation of personal freedom before a judgment. Even for crimes against the public administration, the Senate said no. If the Senate says no to these measures, virtuous and necessary for the cleansing of this country, if the parties, despite the chatter, the "blabla" and the proclamations, still do not decide to take the courageous path of a true internal cleansing and a real meritorious selection and untiring from the most troubled interests, this country will not change. We will continue, with our consistent commitment, to offer solutions, which have sometimes been accepted, as we have sometimes accepted proposals from the majority, but in this case we really cannot vote in favour. With our vote of abstention we intend to propose, once again, a moment of reflection, to use the soft and authentic language of the parliamentary classrooms, behind which hides, for the umpteenth time, the cry of anger of so many citizens who do not understand why the parties are destined to die and want to commit suicide and, above all, want to risk suicide to the entire country. The 5 Star Movement will abstain and the Senate will abstain as a vote against. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u52	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, according to data released days ago by the Department of Penitentiary Administration, inmates awaiting trial in Italy are around 30%; 63.4% are in prison for a final sentence, so there are about 20,000 prisoners in prison awaiting trial. Of these many (you mean thousands) will be declared innocent by justice (not by their friends) and, therefore, will not be condemned. They are unjustly detained in inadequate prisons. Inadequate prison, as much as it may satisfy some forklift drive, causes the worst offenders to dominate. People who could possibly really redeem themselves (because this should be the purpose of the prison) or who have nothing to redeem themselves for (because they have committed a not particularly serious crime that they have no intention of repeating), risk being prey to the worst criminals in prison, perhaps just those who belong to some form of organized crime. In order to remedy this situation, which puts Italy in the second worst place as has already been said, among the countries that should be more evolved especially from the point of view of justice, various measures have been implemented over the years. Forza Italia has already voted in favour of this measure at first reading, as well as in the other branch of Parliament, and we will also vote in favour today, although we know that it could have been done better and even if we know that the real problem is the length of the trials. The duration of the processes is also a major financial burden. We know the data released a few weeks ago by the Ministry of Justice on the 580 million already paid compensation for too long trials and unfair detention. Another 400 million must be paid. Faced with these data, the measure is right, but the fact that at the same time several measures are being approved that lead to an excessive lengthening of the prescription, unworthy of a civil country, causes the exact opposite effect to be obtained. We will have longer trials because the magistrate, rightly, when he has to choose among the many trials that hang (currently there are four million criminal trials suspended in Italy), has the moral duty, but also for his specific tasks, to give precedence to the processes that are close to the prescription. Therefore, the processes that, due to the recently approved laws, will have very long prescription times, will have an equally long duration. Which means that the guilty will be punished late and the innocent will be declared guilty of being late. We must not forget that the trial can also give rise to the acquittal of the accused. How many cases, both those witnessed by statistics, that the Ministry of Justice itself provides, and those witnessed by the experience of the chronicles, resolve with absolution? That's exactly what the trial is for. The great inclination that many, even too many (even those who in the past had more reasonable and civil positions), have to consider the prescription a bad sign of wanting impunity for the guilty, is going in the opposite direction, that of increasing injustice. This is a step in the right direction. There are good intentions and rewordings of certain articles that should ensure more against the abuse of protective custody. However, we know that adding adverbs and adjectives to the rules and requirements necessary to exercise the instrument of protective custody in the past has been largely frustrated by a different attitude on the part of many magistrates. Those who were once concrete clues then became serious and, more generally, what was considered concrete are considered serious and so will be for the various adjectives introduced today. Unfortunately, some measures of great common sense, as well as of great justice, have been expelled. I am thinking, for example, of the rule governing the case in which the magistrate allows the time limits of custody to expire in order not to have fulfilled his duty with respect to the precautionary measure required: the most trivial thing would have been to configure this case as an unlawful disciplinary. Yet this forecast has been inopportunely suppressed by the other branch of Parliament and we do not understand why. At a time when it is necessary to double, quadruple and tenfold the penalties for all and lengthen by decades that ancillary and unjust penalty that is too long a process, it is not even expected the administrative wrongdoing. A rule of this kind is obviously not in any way against the magistrates, we would be missing something else; rather it is in favour of the magistrates who do their duty and against those who instead let the wrongful expiration of the terms, with the consequent release of people that the magistrate himself asked for them to be kept in prison, so it is assumed that there was a good reason to do so. I would like to add one important detail about other measures. The Government has allowed to expire the delegation for the implementation of a rule approved in the past that constituted home custody as the main - of course not exclusive - form of protective custody. The government so fast, so quick and snappy let this delegation expire. Too bad. At a time when Cesare Beccaria is studied in other countries not abstractly, but in order to try to introduce some principles that he wrote 250 years ago, as in China (last year it was celebrated the 250th anniversary of the publication of his work "Dei delitti e delle peni"), it is considered in Italy an old age, good for the eighteenth century. At a time when torture was still practised in Italy and the most exorbitant and unreasonable punishments were inflicted, with trials that gave no guarantees, Cesare Beccaria wrote extraordinary pages of which we should really remember every day. In particular, he writes that the sentence, the detention before the trial must be limited as much as possible - with requirements much more restricted than those provided for today by Italian law - because the penalty must follow the trial and not precede it. We forgot about this: we do not forget the 20,000 prisoners who are in prison without ever being convicted. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u55	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on this bill, which the House has adopted and the Senate has corrected. We are now at the third reading, trying to give a further answer to the challenge of the challenges: to ensure that our prison system is able to answer the two questions that for the citizens are not contradictory, but that in politics - alas - live an eternal and now long and ruinous conflict. I am referring to the dimension of guarantees and the dimension of security. In a modern, advanced, civilized country, with mature democracy, security and guarantees must proceed together: disbalancing these two dimensions is not good. Italy, Italy, has also been able to do this. In these months, thanks to the action of the Government and the majority, thanks also to a close and strong dialogue with the opposition, we have tried to give a response to the overcrowding prison that can hold together guarantees and security. For the first time, there is no conflict; for the first time, we try to keep them together and to ensure that this is productive for our country, in order to ensure that it is no longer the taillight, subjected to infringement procedures by Europe, subjected to derision and severe judgment both in the field of human rights and in that of security protection, for example with the continuous displacement of 41- bis by the mob organisations. Colleagues, I remind everyone that we were starting from a truly worrying and dramatic situation. In March 2013, the total number of prisoners in our prison system was 65,831. Today, in March 2015, after structural and non-emergency interventions, we are faced with a prison population of 54,122 prisoners. This is a result that our country achieves for the first time (well 11,000 inmates less), without resorting neither to amnesty, nor to the indult and without making the pastrocles that Italy could do (for example that of the Indultino). For the first time this road has not been taken and permanent and lasting results have been obtained. This result did not endanger the security of the country and it did not create what many feared by tearing their clothes and shouting "to the wolf!" that is, that our country would be invaded by an increase in the crime rate. All this has been done with measured and design work, able to finally keep together - as I said at the beginning - security and guarantees. We also have another problem in the area of overcrowding, that of protective custody. Our country also stands out for this negative fact: protective custody was not the exception, but gradually in Italy was becoming the rule. I remind everyone that in March 2013 we were facing 24,824 prisoners in custody for various reasons. Now, in March 2015, according to the real data provided by the Minister and the Government (thank you), we are faced with 18,696 prisoners. Here, too, there has been a considerable reduction linked to the effect of those measures which were previously mentioned, through a combination of various measures: this was therefore a real reduction. But 18,696 is still a large number; here is today's intervention, which we are about to approve. Protective custody no longer becomes the first measure, but becomes a rigorous measure and really measured on the one hand with the seriousness of the crimes and, on the other hand, with a necessary and indispensable condition that our security system cannot do without. It does not become a measure taken indifferently, the refuge through which the magistrate makes a decision without evaluating it well, without qualifying it well and without motivating it well. I would remind all my colleagues that, pursuant to Article 274 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, protective custody is normally carried out in our country in relation to the danger of escape, the danger of recurrence of the crime or the danger of pollution of evidence. In this last case, the rule already provides that this danger must be present, so not a general danger that walks with the type of crime. We wanted to predict that there should also be practical topicality for the danger of escape, as for the recurrence of the crime, and that they should be motivated. In this sense, the choice that the rapporteur has explained in various interventions qualifies and brings together both the demand for guarantees and the demand for security and avoids the bickering between these two fundamental conditions of advanced democracy. Dear colleagues, I think this is a guessed and qualifying choice. There has been another one that has been well evaluated and it is fundamental: what are the crimes for which it is necessary to implement the obligatory custody? Normally they are the ones we are trying to describe under the historical lesson that Falcone gave us, which is that of the double track: the crimes of subversion, terrorism and those of the mafia. For these types of crimes the demand for security is strong and qualifying and therefore there is mandatory protective custody. For the other crimes, some of which are equally serious, the magistrate's right to provide obligatory treatment remains. Let us think, for example, of the offence provided for in Article 416-b of the Criminal Code, which we included at first reading in the Chamber offenders for which there is mandatory custody, but, thanks to the combined arrangement, dear colleagues, between the judgments of the Constitutional Court and the option that the magistrate always has to foresee, today, in a legislative way, the obligation, there is always the faculty of the magistrate to evaluate and therefore to be able to respect and balance security and guarantee. So again, in this case no escape for those who think they can use certain types of crime in order not to incur the rigour of the law. These are the basic choices that have been envisaged within a bill that includes many interventions and I want to address here the Deputy Minister to encourage him to move forward. We have chosen the path of decriminalization: a modern and advanced way that our country has been waiting for twenty, thirty years; the way of testing, the way of modernising our prison system. We must continue on this path without jeopardising the rights of a country, a new generation right and a modern and advanced right which is that of security. It is a path that we must continue to follow and that I think will bear fruit. The data are comforting and also the provision on which the Democratic Party says yes goes in this direction. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u58	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u59	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u60	I address the greeting of the Assembly to the students and teachers of the Istituto tecnico commerciale - De Marco-Valzani - of San Pietro Vernotico, in the province of Brindisi, who are following our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u61	The next item is the debate on the resolution adopted by the 14th Standing Commission (Politics of the European Union), at its meeting of 26 November 2014 on the projection of the European Union's policies in the Mediterranean (Doc. XXIV, No 40). The report has already been printed and distributed. He asked to speak, in order to supplement the written report, Senator Mauro Giovanni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u62	Mr President, I have played the rapporteur with Senator Martini, but today, due to an indisposition, he is not here. The 14th Commission, in conjunction with the study carried out on 18 September 2013 on the subject of the projection of the European Union's policies in the Mediterranean, carried out in the informal session numerous preparatory hearings with the ambassadors accredited to the Italian Republic of several countries (Egypt, Morocco, Jordan, Montenegro, Tunisia, Turkey and Malta), as well as with representatives of research bodies (IAI, ISPI, CESPI and CESI), with the President of the Italian-Arab Chamber of Commerce and the Directors for European Integration and for the Mediterranean Countries and the Middle East of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The resolution submitted to the Senate Assembly was adopted by the 14th Commission on 26 November 2014 and it has already been presented on 2 December 2014 in this Senate Chamber, during the work of the LII COSAC (Conference of Parliamentary bodies specialising in the affairs of the Union of Parliaments of the European Union). It is based on the urgent need to refocus the political attention of the institutions of the European Union and of all the Member States on the issues of the Mediterranean, intended as a strategic quadrant for European and global political and economic-commercial stability. Following the just and necessary emphasis placed on the Union's latest enlargements to the North and East in 2004 and 2007, and the substantial exhaustion of the initial thrust of the Barcelona Process, it is now essential to restore centrality and priority to the South border of the Union, as the President of the Council also hoped in his speech in the Senate ahead of the European Council on 19-20 March 2015. This applies above all in view of the absolute importance of the Mediterranean for Europe and for the whole world in terms of security, migration flows and economic and commercial relations and the opportunity that the European Union, as a global player on the world stage, can represent an effective Euro-Mediterranean policy. To this end, a profound change is needed in the European Union's approach to the Mediterranean as a whole, which, as highlighted by the European Parliament in its resolution of 3 July 2012, constitutes a macro-region which must be considered as a coherent whole and a unitary reference basin, in which many common characteristics and priorities are shared. The European Union must also develop new paradigms, new political approaches and new instruments of action, with a view to re-launching the Mediterranean in different, more modern and inclusive terms, giving priority to a fully Community approach that goes beyond the limits of bilateralism. It is also necessary to develop new models, focused on decentralised and multi-level cooperation, involving civil society in partnership with different levels of government, in order to enhance sub-national bodies and associative realities, with the flexibility necessary to ensure the feasibility of the programmes, which are now rigid in the models of the Barcelona Process and the Union for the Mediterranean from the state level and the political constraints associated with it, paying particular attention to cooperation projects in the cultural sector and towards the new generations. In relations between the countries of the European Union and those of the southern and eastern shores of the Mediterranean, it is necessary to definitively overcome the neo-colonialist logic and to base relations on principles of equality and reciprocity, in order to allow the Member States of the northern part of the Mediterranean to cooperate with those of the South. The latter must be the real protagonists of their changes, which are necessary to advance in the direction of democratisation and development: to this end, the parliamentary dimension of the Union for the Mediterranean must be strengthened, enhancing the work of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly (APEM). Another fundamental aspect is the social and cultural dimension of the Mediterranean, which represents a concrete opportunity for economic growth and the work of the younger generations, where culture plays an irreplaceable role in strengthening the process of development and valorisation of aspects of commonality and closeness between the different peoples. To this end, action is needed to intensify cultural exchanges at all levels of civil society and institutions, for example by strengthening the work of the Euro-Mediterranean Anna Lindh Foundation for dialogue between cultures, by strengthening exchange programmes between university students, such as Erasmus Mundus, by creating opportunities for cooperation in the field of culture, for example through theatrical, audiovisual and other productions, and artistic and historical heritage, by establishing cooperation programmes between local and regional administrations. The two sides of the Mediterranean have important aspects of complementarity, from the point of view of the material and intangible resources of which each is the bearer, which should be exploited, in order to develop the necessary economic and productive synergies. To this end, it may be appropriate to resume the hypothesis of the establishment of a Mediterranean bank, exploring the various possible solutions, in order to promote foreign direct investment in the Maghreb and the Maghreb countries, both in order to exploit its potential for return, and in order to reduce the substratum of poverty and malaise, which contributes to the situation of instability and to the phenomenon of migratory flows. The deep and prolonged instability in the Mediterranean area has also made it necessary and urgent to develop a real common European policy on migration flows which, in implementing the principle of solidarity and equitable sharing of responsibility among Member States, as referred to in Article 80 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, allows the Union to act in a comprehensive and integrated manner in relation to the phenomenon of illegal immigration, not only addressing the most emerging aspects, but also attacking the mechanisms and causes of the phenomenon, integrating in its action the instruments of the Union for the Mediterranean, neighbourhood policy, the European External Action Service, development cooperation, humanitarian aid and other economic and financial instruments such as the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). Ladies and gentlemen, with a view to an effective policy of managing migration flows, it would be appropriate for agreements with the countries of the South to be negotiated and concluded by the European Union as a whole with a view to combating irregular migration and the repatriation of illegal immigrants, thereby overcoming the logic of bilateral agreements. In this respect, the intention expressed by the new Juncker Commission in the Work Programme for 2015 to develop a new migration policy is welcomed and it is hoped that due consideration will be given in this context to the particularly burdensome conditions of illegal migration affecting the southern maritime borders of Europe, both for illegal migrants themselves, and for the institutions and communities where their first port takes place, recognizing the specificity and peculiarity of these migratory flows compared to those affecting other parts of the European Union. It would also be desirable to restructure the current legislation on protection and asylum in order to improve procedures and redistribute the burden of reception, ensuring greater equity in the efforts of the different countries of the Union and more functional responses to the needs of applicants. Moreover, on 16 April 2014, the first informal meeting at the level of the Foreign Ministers of Italy, Spain, Portugal, Cyprus, Greece, Malta and France of the so-called Mediterranean Group on irregular migration took place in Alicante, Spain. It is hoped that such coordination between the Mediterranean countries of the European Union can usefully strengthen the involvement of the European Union as a whole on the Mediterranean quadrant. It is also to be welcomed that the Justice and Home Affairs Council adopted a position on 10 October on "Working towards better management of migratory flows" in which a three-pillar approach has been outlined: cooperation with third countries, with special attention to the fight against passors and traffickers of human beings; the strengthening of the Frontex Agency's capacity to react flexibly and promptly to emerging risks and pressures; the European Union's actions to support and fully implement the Common European Asylum System, including through enhanced operational cooperation. It would also be useful to explore the feasibility of allowing asylum applications to be submitted to one of the Union's diplomatic representations in third countries of departure or transit of flows, thus avoiding, for example, the dramatic crossing of the Mediterranean and cutting off the mediation of organised crime in the management of these flows, as already foreshadowed by the European Commission's Communication "A Task Force for the Mediterranean." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mauro, I invite you to conclude. Mr Mauro Giovanni, rapporteur. It would also be possible to deal more severely with the misuse of asylum procedures from possible developments to this end. With regard to the political and institutional situation of the countries on the southern shore of the Mediterranean, the specific experience of Tunisia is certainly to be welcomed, in which the Jasmine Revolution, which started the Arab Spring, gave rise to a process of constitutional democratisation. The case of Libya is different, where the institutional vacuum that followed the overthrow of the previous regime gave way to the recovery of internal oppositions between the main factions of Tobruk, Tripoli, Misrata and Zintan. It would be a good thing if the European Community were to play a third role in determining the way in which it was set up. I conclude with an important consideration that the Commission has wished to make as regards overcoming the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which is a matter of particular importance for the stability of the area, and recalling the very recent agreement reached on the issue of nuclear power in Iran, which is another element of stabilisation that has been created in the area. On these issues, the resolution expresses the position of the Senate and at the same time invites the Government - concluded the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union - to report periodically to the Chambers on the progress achieved in the direction of a strengthened and renewed Mediterranean policy of the European Union and proposes, to this end, the establishment of an annual parliamentary session linked to the themes of the Mediterranean, to which the Government will be called to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u63	I declare the debate open. I note that Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is authorized to deliver his speech for publication in the annex to today's report. He's enlisted to speak Senator Chiti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u64	Mr President, I make only a few comments, because the rapporteur, Senator Giovanni Mauro, has explained and emphasized the points of the resolution. First of all, I would like to thank him and Senator Martini, who worked as rapporteurs for the survey on the Mediterranean, for the members of the 14th The Commission, who have worked in terms of constructive confrontation and in a good climate of deepening, and of course the presidency of the Senate and the leaders of the groups, have allowed this issue - and I shall then say why - to be brought to the attention of this House. Finally, I would like to thank the secretariat of the Commission and the offices of the Senate which have relations with the House and which have facilitated this debate. 11:45 a.m. (Chiti followed). We have worked, in agreement with the Senate Commissions and also with those of the House, on this aspect of the Mediterranean. During the Italian Presidency, we shared our tasks and our work a little. It was a work that was also concerted and developed in agreement with the Government. There is a reason, if you want formal, and there is a political reason why we have asked for this debate in this House. Senator Mauro has already explained the formal reason. We had presented - and there had also been an intervention by the Government - the resolution on the Mediterranean in the assembly that took place in Rome of the Conference of the bodies specializing in Community affairs (COSAC) and of the states in negotiation to enter the Union: it was therefore quite strange that there was a confrontation at the level of European Parliaments and there was no deepening in the Senate Assembly. The second most important aspect is political: we believe that Italy must play a role so that the Mediterranean is assumed, in all its aspects, as a central issue at the level of the European Union. This is not only a commitment, but a function that specifically characterizes the role of our country within the Union. There is often a debate and reflection among us that have a basis. I think that the issue of the role and functions of Parliament, as well as the reform of bicameralism, must be addressed. What is the role of a modern Parliament today with regard to the Government? Parliament, whatever the governments are (even when I was a part of them), is in fact a little conditioned on the agenda by the government's decisions. This is the case, but it is important to rediscover the central role of Parliaments in identifying some fundamental projects on which to work with continuity and in the proper exercise of control functions. We, in fact, are not doing well - this is my judgment - with continuity either. This is something we should be able to deal with. The question we are asking is as follows: can the Mediterranean not be the great issue on which Parliament is constantly committed and then periodically confront the Government, if we want the action of our country, which characterizes a political commitment of our country in the European Union, to have full success and all the necessary breath? It's not obvious. I come to the penultimate consideration. If we were to say today that the Mediterranean, in all its aspects, is for the 28 states that are part of the European Union a central issue we would say something that does not correspond to the truth. Next June there will again be the Conference of bodies specializing in Community affairs in Riga. Dear President Casini, we had to insist strongly and the Mediterranean theme was placed in the space of lunch. I hope that everyone will not go to lunch and participate in this debate. This tells us how there is a serious aspect of underestimating the problem. In some European states the Mediterranean is seen as one of the many seas that bathe Europe. In other situations it is said that the Mediterranean is dealt with when the Presidency-in-Office is from a Mediterranean country and then when it is not from the Mediterranean, issues such as Ukraine are dealt with. We wanted to give space in the COSAC Assembly to Ukraine as to the Mediterranean, because there is no division according to who exercises the Presidency in turn. The Mediterranean - and this is the last consideration I make - is not really one of the many seas that bathe in Europe. It's not just that. More than 400 million people live on the southern shores of the Mediterranean, many young people. There are tensions and hopes. There are glimpses of peace and unresolved problems. There are wars, conflicts and actions of terrorism that cannot be underestimated. There are countries, like Tunisia, that build a solid democracy, and, however, they must be helped after the Arab Spring. There are ongoing trials in Jordan. There is Morocco, which anticipated the Arab Springs by building a significant democratic constitutional reform, but there is also Syria. There is the conflict that has opened in Yemen and there is Libya. Finally, there are the announcements, which we must consider positive and emphasize strongly, of the first agreement on Iranian nuclear, which affects the world and therefore also the Mediterranean. It is a positive fact, a significant turning point, but it is not the conclusion, it is not yet the treaty signed definitively and it is certainly not yet its implementation phase. However, we must insist that this is the right path: the right path in our time always focuses on politics and diplomacy and does not consider two expressions as synonyms: war or, if necessary, international police operations. These two expressions are not synonyms, because an international police operation may be necessary if the international community decides it, but it is targeted, ad hoc, it is not a general conflict and it builds an after, it protects respect for human rights. Moreover, it makes sense when it inevitably becomes necessary, it makes sense if it is within a political process, a political strategy, an idea of politics and diplomacy such as that prevailed so far in the negotiations with Iran. For these reasons - Madam President, I have concluded - I think that Parliament, not a single Commission, but Parliament through the choral commitment of its Commissions, must work continuously to make, in relation to the Government, the problem of the Mediterranean in all its aspects - economic, environmental, conflict, stability, peace building, confrontation and cultural formation and the role of religions themselves - a theme that engages politics, our work and that is measured with continuity through an action that Italy cannot abandon but must carry forward as protagonist. And this is not to boast of itself, but because I am convinced that it is its function in the interests of the European Union. The European Union, if it wants to be a supranational democracy, cannot afford to underestimate or delegate responsibilities on the Mediterranean to others. You have to hire them all and yourself. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u65	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u66	Madam President, I would like to point out to my fellow Members that the words spoken by President Chiti and the report that we are here to vote on and that the 14th Commission has rightly put to the vote by this House. Why does the 14th Commission, which deals with the European Union, draw attention to the issue of the Mediterranean? The Foreign Affairs Committee could theoretically deal with this. It is not wrong, however, that we are debating here today, on the basis of the impetus of Commission 14a (I wish to express my deep thanks) on the subject of the Mediterranean. The reason is written, but I want to stress it: we on the Mediterranean reject the bilateral approach; we reject the idea that individual countries are moving in order scatteredly to draw their policy towards the Mediterranean; we ask that there be a European Union approach in the policy of good neighbourliness towards countries bordering on the Mediterranean and that is why, appropriately, on the basis of the Commission's drive to deal with the policies of the European Union, we today ask that the Italian Parliament take responsibility, also in the context of the interparliamentary relations that exist, for a policy of good neighbourliness between the European Union and the other Mediterranean countries. President Chiti has said words of truth and I can only subscribe to them. At every international meeting that we find ourselves living as representatives of the Foreign Affairs, Defence and European Union Commissions, we are allowed by our partners to cut out a small part of these meetings to deal with the issues of the Mediterranean. The Mediterranean is a central issue today if Europe wants to have a future, because it has problems but opportunities. European policy cannot emerge, particularly from the North - and from Germany, let us be honest, because this is the reality - only in the scenario of the North-East of Europe. We know that Ukraine's problems are enormous: we have shared them, we have discussed the situation in Ukraine, Georgia, Azerbaijan and Armenia deeply in this House. These are issues that we live on daily, but the Mediterranean theme is central today. Allow me to advise you, so I also do some publicity, to read an article by Marta Dassu, published this morning in "La Stampa", very intelligent like all those who write, which clearly explains that there is a change in American politics and approach to Mediterranean issues. The United States of America, in recent years, has transformed from a country that needed energy supplies in an exporting country. Europe, therefore, today, must take responsibility for the management of issues such as the Mediterranean and the complex balances affecting the Middle East. There is no longer, and there will be less and less, American protection compared to the old habits on which we have fallen. Here is the point: it is not Italy alone that can make a policy of good neighbourliness with the countries that face the Mediterranean, but it is Italy that can ask the European Union to take on a new sensibility. I invite you to do a little research in the archives of the European Union. In a year we have given Poland alone the equivalent of all the aid that has been given to all the Mediterranean countries in all these years. You understand that a policy has not been pursued and there has been no sensitivity to it. You are right, therefore, to refer another matter to our examination in the document, which is very close to my heart. One of the initiatives that has worked best in Europe and which for our children has been more effective and able to call them to a lived Europeanism was the Erasmus project. Let us make a great Erasmus that gives our young people the opportunity to exchange human relations with the young university students of the countries bordering the Mediterranean, the countries bordering on the other side of the Mediterranean. Let us make a great Erasmus linking these young people to our universities and also sending our young people to their universities, which are the temple of a deeply rooted and profound culture. Let us not forget, in fact, that the great civilizations have been able to measure themselves in the Mediterranean: from the Egyptians, to the ancient Greeks, to ancient Rome, everything has risen around the Mediterranean which today, of course, is also a sea of despair but which we must convert to the sea of opportunities and collaboration, of interreligious dialogue, because this is also a central issue concerning the relationship between the European Union and the Mediterranean. Colleagues, I don't want to go any further, because you could go on forever since these are the issues that we are passionate about. I just want to thank my colleagues from the 14th Commission and President Chiti. I would also like to announce my strong vote in favour of the resolution before us, which I believe is important to the Italian Parliament. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u67	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u68	I call on the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Senator Della Vedova, to speak on the resolution already adopted by the 14th Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u69	Madam President, the Government's opinion on the resolution before us is strongly in favour. I would like to thank the 14th Commission and President Chiti for addressing this issue and for bringing it to the House. President Casini's consideration of the need for this issue to be addressed in the European Union's policy committee and brought to the House as a Commission resolution is - as has been said - one of the key points. The Government is particularly grateful for this opportunity, because in the last initiatives of Minister Gentiloni, but already with Minister Mogherini, our approach has always been to place the Mediterranean more at the heart of the European Union's initiative. The Eastern Partnership is something on which the importance and strategicity of which there is no point in discussing, and it is clear that the Mediterranean issue, in terms of security and migration, is inescapable for the European Union. It has been for a long time and has become so dramatically decisive with the crisis in Libya and with what has happened, even recently, in Tunisia, which has revived a focus on the part of the European Union that needs to be realized. The intervention of Italy and Minister Gentiloni - for example - to involve Tunisia, which is not the Mediterranean but is certainly a significant part of it, in the context of the projects of the Juncker plan, I believe is a way to respond to the needs highlighted in this resolution. Therefore, Madam President, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u70	We shall now proceed to the vote on document XXIV, No 40.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u73	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we can only begin by sharing the words expressed by President Chiti on the work of the 14th Commission. It is not easy to frame a situation that is constantly changing, also because - let us remember - the work of the Commission has not lasted a few days but several months, during which much has changed on the Mediterranean scene and much will change, in these hours and in the coming days. Our wish, therefore - and this is the recommendation that we make to the Government - is that the object of the resolution should be taken into account and implemented, in the part that we share, as quickly as possible. Otherwise, the real risk is, metaphorically, to talk about the rise in global temperature when it is burning the house in which we live. We must hurry to the shelter and intervene on the situation, which is no longer a cultural confrontation between the North and the South shore of the Mediterranean that could have been there a few years ago, but today sees the Mediterranean fiery by a scenery of war. This resolution is very complex, and we share most of it. But there are some elements that I will then go and identify, on which we do not agree, especially as regards the political judgement and the assessment of the effectiveness of actions taken, and I refer to Mare nostrum. We have welcomed the inclusion in this resolution of certain measures on which we have long been asking the Government for a commitment. I am referring to the part where it is said that it would also be appropriate to examine the feasibility of allowing asylum applications to be lodged at a diplomatic office of the European Union located in third countries of departure or transit of flows, thus avoiding - for example - the dramatic crossings of the Mediterranean and cutting off the mediation of organised crime in the management of these flows. Any developments in this respect would also lead to the possibility of dealing more severely with the misuse of asylum procedures by those who are intercepted. Council document 16045/13 stated, in fact, that 72.94 percent of irregular migrants have only activated international protection procedures after interception, which can be assessed as a quantitative indicator of an abuse of the asylum procedure. In this we recognize the awareness, which we can only appreciate, that what is happening today is very different from the simple request for asylum, which instead needs serious deepening in a short time. There is a war front triggered throughout the Middle East that has spread to the southern shore of the Mediterranean and threatens our country closely. It is also true that the Mediterranean cannot simply be seen as a problem linked to economic aspects. Reference is made in the text to opportunities to promote foreign direct investment in the Maghreb countries. This is certain, but rightly - and as we have been saying for a long time - aid must come first where problems arise, where the economy puts people in difficulty and where the question of war has also been added. It is precisely in these hours that our Foreign Minister has moved to think of military intervention, which represents a qualitative leap in terms of conscience and participation. I don't know if this is the right solution. Of course, for too long this country has been looking at what is happening in the window. We find in the document of the right references to the fact that policies cannot be limited to bilateral choices: between Italy and other countries rather than between some European countries and other Mediterranean countries. Too many times we have seen France and Germany sitting at the conciliation tables on their own with regard to policies which, on the other hand, should be interpreted at European level. The European Semester of the Italian Presidency is over. Well, this resolution would have made even more sense if it were adopted during the European Semester. This does not alter the fact that, as is indicated in the final stage, the Government is invited to report at least annually on the situation of the Mediterranean policy and the European Union. Proposing a specific session is not superfluous and is not a luxury. We have a fiery situation at our borders. The very management of migration flows cannot be traced back to the problems of Italy, as if it were a national problem. It is the European border and it is therefore right that, within the resolution, the need for European policy as a whole should also bear the costs of managing migration flows. We welcome when, within the report, it indicates and hopes that due consideration will be given in this context to the particularly burdensome conditions of the illegal migration phenomenon, which affects the southern maritime borders of Europe, both for the illegal migrants themselves and for the institutions and communities where their first port takes place, recognizing the specific characteristics of these migratory flows compared to those affecting other parts of the European Union. It would also be desirable to restructure the current legislation on protection and asylum, in order to improve procedures and the redistribution of reception costs, ensuring greater equity in the efforts of the different countries of the European Union and more functional responses to the needs of applicants. In this case a qualitative leap in terms of consciousness does not escape. The Government must note that, within the European Union's political Commission, these reflections have been carried out. It is not a problem for Italy, but it is a problem for the whole of Europe to be dealt with. If there is such a position, our vote will be very much in favour. This does not mean that we do not agree with what is indicated in the resolution, in terms of favour, consensus and positive consideration, with regard to Mare nostrum. We do not agree that the resolution indicates the need to strongly support the European Operation Tritone initiative, which represents the natural development of the positive experience of Mare nostrum, implemented by the Italian Government. This was not, and still is not, a positive experience. It continues not to be so for those who find death within the transhipments made by crime, to which we cannot lend our side and to which, unfortunately, for too long our country has lent itself, even with a management that we consider to be ill-fated of the use of military ships in transporting illegal immigrants from one part of the Mediterranean to the other, thus supporting a criminal activity. And on this part of the resolution - the advance already, Mr President - we will make a request for a split vote, not supporting its content either in the premises or in the arrangements. For the rest, I repeat that the Government must seriously take this resolution into account in the part where the European Union is being asked to take responsibility for the situation and in the part where the three pillars are defined: cooperation with third countries, with special attention to the fight against passors and traffickers of human beings; the strengthening of FRONTEX's ability to react with flexibility and timeliness to emerging risks and pressures; the actions of the European Union to support and fully implement our Common European Asylum System, including through greater cooperation. This is not and cannot be an Italian problem. For too long, however, Italy has been left alone in the management of this phenomenon, even with a complacency from the Government - let's say here - that we have not really understood and we cannot understand in terms of respect for regular migrants and Italian citizens. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni]] On this basis, Madam President, we will therefore ask for the separate vote on the resolution. Finally, I repeat the importance of the Government paying attention to this resolution not as one of the many adopted, not as one of the many agendas, not as a recommendation, but as a measure to be taken seriously, to address a very serious problem. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u76	MOLINARI (Mixed). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution before this House today is based on the need - shared in 14a Commission - to update the political action of the European institutions and its Member States on the issues of the Mediterranean, including with a view to strengthening Europe's strategic role in the global chessboard. It is a frontier, the border of the South of the Union, which, having exhausted the justified enlargement of the European horizons to the North and East, which is required by the fall of the Berlin Wall, especially at this historic moment, is firmly proposed for its strategic importance, far beyond the area it borders. It is from the extreme lability and interdependence of the world's borders that Europe has a necessary and different focus on this area, and not only to see issues involved in the security and control of migratory flows or in favour of economic and trade relations, but above all to achieve a more supportive European policy in the Mediterranean, which will, in fact, strengthen Europe itself. However, the European Union must, on the one hand, overcome the models of certain bilateralism concerned and, on the other hand, develop new models of cooperation that enhance the intra-national communities and the various associative realities, with a greater ductility than that begun in 1995 with the Barcelona Process and continued in 2008 with the establishment of the Union for the Mediterranean. In this logic it is decisive, therefore, an approach aimed at recognizing a social and cultural commonality of the Mediterranean area, as an indispensable instrument for strengthening a different and more respectful process of the development of relations between peoples, and it is equally important, in the nobility of these intentions, to avoid that certain errors, internal as well as external, are reproduced. It would be profoundly wrong to start from preferring certain visions, both ideological and short-sighted, of the market economy, thinking that from them and only from them - in a way not unlike certain ideologies exporting of late-Imperial Western democracy - they descend automatic social changes, with relative attached welfare. We are well aware of the price that has been paid and that many European countries - including ours - are paying for these false certainties. It will not be enough, therefore, just to think of creating a macro-regional bank, which is still called for better use, intended to promote investment in order to reduce structural poverty in the Maghreb and the Maghreb countries, also causing instability and the explosion of migratory flows. It is a structural poverty, this of the South and North of Africa, which our Mezzogiorno knows well and which has never found a definitive solution. The so-called southern issue has contributed more to creating alibis in the paternalistic governmental classes that have succeeded in time than comfort in the southern peoples. Yet this people, my people, have tried, in these long lustrous past after the Risorgimento war, to free themselves from charitable charity and false promises, but with alternate events, marked also by economic conjunctures and social crises, the last of which, in some ways worse than that of '29, is still bending us. Yet this people, the people of southern Europe, are united in a common destiny to the peoples who face the opposite side of the Mediterranean and have all the cards to dare: a great pool of labour, remarkable professionalism acquired, highly qualified human resources. They are all resources characterized by their inutilization. There is now a national and European class of government that prefers the enslavement of the South, of all the South, and another local that tries to get a personal profit from such servitude. The current Italy, a province of southern Europe, which condemns such a vast area of its territory, South of the South, to the desperate marginality in the pursuit of policies of balanced budget and unfair taxation, which prevent any concrete entrepreneurial initiative, is it intending to change this perspective? This is also the bet you want to win with the resolution under consideration. Otherwise, how can we believe in a country, Italy (and therefore in Europe), a member of a community of states that wants to advocate the emancipation of what lies in the South of itself and in Europe, when it fails to emancipate its South? Yet, just now, because of affinity, our South, an integral part of the southern Mediterranean, could be an ideal bridge and not a mere port of despair, a sort of clearing house between the demands of continental Europe and those of the Mediterranean area. It could be and become that opportunity to shift the centre of gravity of Europe, decisive in order to revive the enormous repressed potential of our Mezzogiorno and therefore of the whole country. It could be the beginning of a project for our future as a Europe, where more centres of action can coexist and where this part of Europe can cease to be the unarmed hostage of parasitic political classes and cat paddles and act as a counterbalancing of a German-centric Europe. One thing will certainly no longer be acceptable: that the South can be put at the center of wars between the poor, as has been done with bilateral agreements at European level of pseudo-cooperation in agriculture concluded with Mediterranean countries, from which only the industrialized North countries have benefited, as usual. It is in this perspective, and only in this perspective, that it is right to implement the principle of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility among the Member States, as referred to in Article 80 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which many forget. Here, then, the instruments of the Union for the Mediterranean, the Neighbourhood Policy, the European External Action Service, development cooperation, humanitarian aid and other economic and financial instruments such as the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will have to go beyond the fragmentation of interventions, heading with less uncertainty on the overall involvement of the Southern Mediterranean countries, but also and especially of the depressed areas of Southern Europe. These are investment camps on which we hope the resources referred to by the Juncker plan will be addressed. It is in this way that sincere support can be achieved for a genuine process of political and social democratisation of the southern Mediterranean countries and their definitive freeing from colonialism. Finally, allow me to make a final remark, although there is no record of it in the resolution. I am referring to the failure to resolve the historic Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which is still one of the main obstacles to the development of a process of relaxation and democratization of the whole of the Middle East, and therefore of the whole of the Mediterranean, and which is the cause of further tensions. This is a conflict in which the European institutions are still unable to move in a uniform manner, have not taken on a persuasive role in encouraging dialogue and negotiation and leave everything in the hands of America. That is why today's meeting is decisive for the direction which, in this resolution, has been set out towards a strengthening of diplomacy that can be aimed at cooperation and primarily involve the peoples of the Member States, in a continuous and permanent way. That is why we are going to vote in favour of this resolution. [[Applause from the Mixed, M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u79	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would like to make a few very brief comments because, after the speeches by Presidents Chiti and Casini, which we consider absolutely exhaustive and which we are marrying in full, we want to express our deep appreciation for the work carried out by the 14th The Commission and the rapporteurs for this motion for a resolution which we consider to be absolutely important, useful, positive and of extraordinary strategic importance and of great topical importance. Never before - in our opinion - is it necessary, even in the light of what has been said before, to regard our Mediterranean as a macro-region, where, above all, economic, commercial and, above all, cultural exchanges must be privileged. The cultural exchange, especially among young people, the idea of a great Erasmus of our Mediterranean, convinces us and attracts us, because - in our opinion - it has an absolute validity in the growth and cultural emancipation, and therefore democratic, of certain countries, especially North Africa, and in particular Libya, which is the weak link of a potential stability that we are looking for in that area. This Mediterranean macro-region must share common characteristics, priorities and policies with Europe to develop models capable of involving not only governments but also civil society, thus guaranteeing the paths of democratisation and cultural emancipation - as I said - of the North African countries that face the Mediterranean, whose intercourse and dialogue are fundamental. As are fundamental programmes aimed at reducing poverty and malaise in the areas concerned; a malaise that contributes to political instability, terrorism and the phenomenon of migratory flows. On this subject, of course, we feel that we are very different from the arguments and proposals made by the North League, because we believe that it is useful to redesign a common European policy, sharing responsibilities and commitments among all Member States, not only to intervene in emergency situations but to address the cause of the phenomenon upstream. This, therefore, is Europe's role in the Mediterranean macro-region, in the stabilisation and democratisation of the North African countries, in particular - as we said before - Libya. The model clearly is that of Tunisia, which is a positive reference and an example for all the other Mediterranean countries, and we have had proof of this by the composite, civil, determined and determined reaction to the recent attack on the Bardo Museum. This is the role of Europe's diplomatic activity, which must be absolutely united, synergistic and capable of developing common, strong and effective foreign policy responses. This is why the Group of the People's Area will once again vote in favour of this resolution, which calls on the Government to report to the Chambers on the Mediterranean policy of the European Union and proposes the establishment of an annual parliamentary session on Mediterranean issues, so as to always involve and inform Parliament. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u80	I would like to greet, on behalf of the whole Assembly, the students of the Technical Institute for Trade and Tourism (Michele La Porta di Galatina, in the province of Lecce, who are today visiting the Senate). Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u83	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I have asked to speak in order to propose a moment of reflection on the facts that are happening, and of which we have news, at this moment in Milan. In particular, for those who did not follow the story, a shooting took place within the court. The news reports the death of Judge Ciampi, injured and even four dead, but the data is being updated. This is therefore a particular situation, which perhaps the House would need to reflect on, with particular reference to the cases that led to the entry of a gun into court. This is one of the things we should think about, since we have the anti-terrorism decree and so many other rules that we will have to vote on in the next few days. Yet, today, in the court of Milan, a person entered with a gun. And we should also reflect on the reasons that led that entrepreneur - it seems he was under trial for bankruptcy - to this gesture, certainly insane. The greatest solidarity, together with all our condolences, goes, of course, to the victims and their families.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u84	Senator Crimes, obviously the presidency and the whole Senate are associated with mourning. The news - as is well known - is still very fragmented, but I believe that reflection will take place in the right times. In the meantime, the Presidency is already in contact with the Government for its readiness to report to the Senate as soon as possible on the events in Milan, which are very serious and disturbing. However, I believe that what we must do is to continue our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u87	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, Europe needs the Mediterranean and the Mediterranean needs Europe. The common and indissoluble historical and cultural matrixes give life to what has been repeatedly called the Euro-Mediterranean region: this is why the political and social balance of the area on the southern shores of the Mediterranean is of primary importance. Determining the countries of the so-called Arab Spring means curbing immigration, especially illegal immigration, and trafficking in human beings. It is therefore important to make it possible to present asylum applications in the countries of origin and to review the European regulation on immigration, as has always been requested by the 5 Star Movement Group and as proposed also by our own bill, which today requires us to discuss all together, without flags or barriers. We are ready: the contingent situation requires effective measures. Let us not limit ourselves, as usual, to putting on patches and to playing the part of repairers, when instead it is time to build and prevent. We must give a serious blow to the phenomenon of traits, to the criminal management of the boats of hope, and we must give and restore dignity to the human being. We are about to vote on a resolution which is more appropriate than ever, but which must have a real follow-up and not remain in these rooms. The Mediterranean basin is strategically important in all respects: commercial, social and political. The role of Italy can be that of protagonist or even leader for the development of this basin, in a profitable vision. Just think of the commercial, agricultural and food potentials, which today are more competitive, often incorrect and without the control of the productions that come to us, sometimes giving the countries of North Africa a crossroads for the intensive and genetically modified productions - such as those of Brazil - directed to the big markets of China and Russia. Currently we are moving in the opposite direction to the good intentions present in the text: the agricultural IMU and the Expo, sponsored by the food multinationals, like the famous American chain, give little dust to our excellences and the potentialities of the Mediterranean area. And we are unarmed today. The situation in Libya must be resolved at diplomatic level and possible European actions must focus on cooperation and development, especially with the use of civilian forces. Also in this case the phenomenon must be cut off at the origin, or at the root, intervening on armaments, on the race to profit at all costs and on the exploitation of religion. The production and supply of weapons must be closed. The pretexts for guerrilla warfare, which shield themselves behind a religious pseudovision, must be reduced to zero. The diplomatic action must be serious and of such a thickness that it does not allow more mess, because it is a real pot-pourri of consecutive errors, as in the case of the Palestinian question, which today risks putting an entire people on their knees, even from the humanitarian point of view. Let us look at what is happening in the Yarmuk refugee camp in Syria, where there are tens of thousands of people in desperate conditions, including 3,500 children, who are the first to pay and the true unawares of everything. No food, no water, no medicine come to Yarmuk, as the Save the children organization tells us. It is a real hell in hell, for tens of thousands of people, caught in the violent grip of the Islamic State and the al-Nusra Front, which today seems to control 80% of the camp. Let us repeat and repeat our questions: who weapons the Islamic State? Has diplomatic action really never been able to prevent this state of affairs? Unfortunately, it seems that the balance of profit prevails over human dignity. We shall therefore vote in favour of this resolution, but we are aware that the words written on a blank sheet are not enough to produce a serious humanitarian, political and economic breakthrough. We need those actions which, since last November, when we voted on the previous text, have never been put into practice. It is therefore time to move from word to action: we are ready. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u90	AMORUSO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the examination by this House of this resolution and of the problems of the Mediterranean area in general is a very positive fact, which the Group of the European Forza Italia welcomes, both for its political significance and for a number of factual reasons, on which I will address briefly. First of all on the political level, a debate on the Mediterranean, that is, on the geographical area that sees Italy in a central position, not only at geographical level, but also at historical, cultural and economic level, is very important in the current historical phase in which unfortunately the nostrum sea is shaken by tensions and violence that pain and make deeply reflect on the geopolitical events of the region. It is also important that the resolution also speaks of the Mediterranean from a European point of view, because in fact - as was mentioned this morning also in President Casini's speech - the European Union - with the corollary of the unlucky intergovernmental initiatives, duly recalled in the context of the resolution, from the Barcelona Process to the Union for the Mediterranean - it has been absent in recent years or, at best, little present in relation to the sometimes dramatic events that have taken place in the Maghreb and in the Middle East. Moreover, I cannot fail to point out here that, in our view, the Italian Presidency of the European Union has also been a missed opportunity in terms of Mediterranean policies at Community level: there have been many proclamations, but few facts. The events known to all about the migratory flows from a Maghreb, in many places devastated by instability and sometimes by the civil war, are emblematic in this case. Of course, we appreciate that the resolution before us calls for a truly shared responsibility for the control and management of migratory flows in the Mediterranean. But, at the same time, we cannot fail to point out that for many, too many years there have been speeches already so many times heard but that, in practice, they have not led to really positive developments. Italy suffers an unbearable burden and the other European countries facing the Mediterranean, although with particular flows and problems, often live a similar situation, as evidenced also by the resolution in the passage, very appropriate, on the Mediterranean Group composed, as well as by us, also by Spain, Portugal, Cyprus, Greece, Malta and France. There is therefore no doubt that, among the priorities to be addressed, it is of primary importance that of the phenomena of immigration and the flight of the civilian populations from the theatres of combat: millions of people who lose everything, torn from their roots. We still have a lot of work to do on this side, because it is unacceptable to let women and children live in these inhuman conditions - on the one hand - and to turn the Mediterranean into a deathbed - on the other - because of the criminal trafficking of immigrants. In this regard, the reference to the Mare nostrum and Triton missions is not shared by us, precisely because they are the sign of the failure of a policy of contrasting this type of problem. In short, the resolution helps us to reflect on what the role must be - even in times when too many times this function is put in the background of the actions of the governments - of Parliament: that is, a role of meeting ideas, of debate, of deepening but also of pungolo, in fact, towards the Government. On this level I would like to stress the very important and too often underestimated role of so-called parliamentary diplomacy. The resolution refers to the role of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly (APEM). In this regard, I would like to read the report which the European Commission has produced these days and which is in its publication on the functioning of the international bodies that look to the Mediterranean, in which it analyses the functions of the APEM in a critical sense, but analyses in a positive sense the action of other organisations. That is why I take this precious opportunity to stress that the Italian Parliament also adheres to the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, which has, among its principles, those that are set out in this resolution and that in recent years (in close coordination with the United Nations, in which it sits as a permanent observer at the General Assembly) has done a lot in the search for channels of dialogue in areas unfortunately affected by conflicts and wars, from Syria to Libya, to the Holy Land, and that it has seen Italy as its Presidency until February and that it now sees its representative, Mrs Fattorini, sitting on behalf of our Parliament as Vice President and President of a Commission. There have been and still are many initiatives on the tracks of parliamentary diplomacy, which must be supported and made known. I remember what happened, even in very recent times, precisely from the Mediterranean Assembly, on the fight against terrorism, on the very serious phenomenon of foreign fighters. Here in Rome, last month, there was an important meeting between parliamentarians from the Maghreb countries for a training course, wanted by the United Nations and economically sponsored by the European Union, with regard to the legislative function of parliaments in anti-terrorism. There have been diplomatic initiatives on the relaunch of Dialogue 5+5 between the countries of the Western Mediterranean, on the protection of the historical and cultural heritage from the disasters of the terrorists of ISIS and on the formation of students. But also in the economic field the resolution does well to recall the idea of the Mediterranean bank, failed by Germany and the countries of Northern Europe, who never supported it and wanted it, until forcing Italy, in May 2011, to convene a Mediterranean partnership fund in Palermo. A meeting was organised to create a Mediterranean partnership fund, with a particular focus on employment, the development of entrepreneurship and the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. From this point of view we, like Italy, have the cards in order to have had the right intuition, unlike others. In addition, it is a priority, returning to the issue of immigration, already before the Treaty, to the commitment to call for a revision of the Dublin II Agreement, in order to ensure that Italy is not alone in tackling the migratory flow that results from the various war theatres of the region. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that our Parliament, as it should be for all the parliaments of the Mediterranean countries, must and can be an instrument of great participatory diplomacy in order to promote, in parallel with the intergovernmental channels that govern the great geopolitical events of our time so complex, the encounter between civil societies and among the many young people, first of all to reflect, discuss and create a real fabric of cooperation and co-development along the lines of the Mare nostrum. It is in this spirit and, you will allow me, with a hope that from now on there will be other opportunities for debate in Parliament on the Mediterranean, that is, on the home of Italy, that we, as the Forza Italia Group, will ultimately adhere to the request for a separate vote on this resolution. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u93	COCIANCICH (PD). Madam President, before I speak in an explanation of vote, let me express my dismay at what is happening in Milan in the court that I have attended for over twenty years, being enrolled in the Milan lawyer's order, and involving people whom I personally knew. I am referring, for example, to Judge Ciampi, who I have had several times as magistrate in front of me. It is a moment of great emotion for the whole community of the forum of Milan and the Milanese judiciary. We wait to understand how it happened that people entered the courthouse armed with metal detectors at all entrances. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency is in constant contact both to follow the outcome and to understand when the Government will be able to report on the facts. COCIANCICH (PD). I believe that many things have been said in this debate and I think it is pointless for me to repeat them today. I would like to highlight one point which I think has emerged very clearly in the course of the survey made by the 14th Commission. It is an investigation for which I thank President Chiti and the rapporteurs who have offered the possibility of a real deepening of many issues that are perhaps known to a few. I believe that the fundamental point is that we had a great opportunity in the mid-1990s, when the Barcelona process was launched, which was an opportunity that put on a path of building an area of solidarity and not only of free economic exchange, but also cultural between civil society of the different peoples of the Mediterranean. This Barcelona process has been abandoned by everyone. We felt the frustration of the ambassadors of the countries on the southern shore of the Mediterranean, who had personally committed themselves. I remember, for example, the hearing of the Ambassador of Morocco. This means that today we are also faced with a serious problem of international police, which is not the result of a cynical and cheating fate, but the consequence of a lack of serious political initiative which we, first of all as the European Union, have not been able to cultivate. And when you don't cure, you don't prevent, you don't anticipate problems, then you pay hard the consequences. Today we see the great disaster on the southern shore of the Mediterranean. Countries that we greeted a few years ago as at the dawn of a new spring are today torn apart by civil war, by a war that cannot be traced exclusively to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, as is often said. In this case it is a conflict that concerns the Arab and Muslim world within it. The conflict between Shiites and Sunnis (and not only because even within the Sunni world there are deep divergences between Muslim brothers and those who do not belong to the most radical component), between Salafists and those who instead aspire to a society that develops in respect of their religious and cultural identity, but who at the same time do not accept a radicalism that in fact denies the recent history of these peoples. Well, we have abandoned this dialogue, we have abandoned this debate and we have allowed these countries to walk the road in perfect solitude. We must remember that, after the Second World War, in Western Europe, the great Marshall Plan was a foundation on which our peoples were able to return to economic prosperity, to the full enjoyment of civil and economic rights. I believe that the Barcelona process could have been the premise for a Marshall Plan to invest the Mediterranean area as a whole. Unfortunately, this has not happened and today it is much more difficult to do so, because there are different conditions under which a political initiative could take place. The latter would inevitably be faced with a situation which is now deeply corrupted and incandidate. In these years we have been hypnotized by the agenda dictated by some countries of Northern Europe - other colleagues have also reminded us - and we thought that the future of our country, of Europe, was linked only to the respect of the parameters signed at Maastricht, at a time when macroeconomic conditions were profoundly different from those of today; and we did not realize, instead, that the centrality of the Mediterranean is the true future of our continent and that neglecting this theme means condemning both Europe and Italy to an increasingly marginal role in our world. In particular, if Italy is not able to impose this agenda - as Sarkozy had tried to do a few years ago by proposing the union of the Mediterranean, except then abandoning that political one, in my opinion, in a sense, and starting the conflict in Libya - and taking a strong political initiative such as that proposed on the union of the Mediterranean, it will self-condemn itself to a marginality in the political debate. We therefore welcome a permanent session of Parliament. I believe that Parliament must play a central role, because this kind of initiative cannot be left exclusively to the Government. Parliaments must play their part, civil society must play its part, we must all be involved in this process. It cannot always and only others take the initiative, and it cannot always be the fault of others alone. Similarly, it makes no sense to continue to see Euro-Mediterranean relations only in terms of preventing illegal immigration. This is a serious issue, but this cannot be the only answer. Frontex was certainly an initiative that had the merit of involving the European Union, but there is no doubt that the response at European level is still insufficient because the resources made available are inadequate. We must be involved not only symbolically but effectively, which means that the European Union as a whole will give priority to these issues. In conclusion, Mr President, I really believe that this work has been very positive. The investigation that has been carried out has highlighted many themes, traces and red threads that will have to be explored in the future with greater attention giving them further priority because they really concern the future of our country and our continent, and I also believe the future of relations between the three important continents that face the Mediterranean: Asia, Africa and Europe. That is why the Democratic Party voted in favour of this resolution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u95	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u96	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I declare my vote of abstention on this resolution because I consider it absolutely weak and incomplete in view of the importance of this issue. Just look at the premises: there are four of the points that gave rise to the creation of the Union for the Mediterranean. Environmental issues, energy issues and issues related to the Civil Protection Programme are not considered. Only a few questions of the convenience of the present Government are examined for its absolutely weak action. There is no specific request for the European Parliament and the European Commission to include a specific reference to typical Mediterranean products in directives and resolutions whenever it takes a decision. As far as the Juncker plan is concerned, no provision is made for the application to be made for a proportion of those investments to companies operating between European interests and Mediterranean interests. These are all things that I have heard in the explanations of vote but which are not contained in the resolution. Therefore, the explanations of vote should have led to a vote which is completely different from what we arrive at on a subject which should have been unanimously aimed at and which is dealt with with with weakness and inconsistency: these are the usual statements. If this is the Italian Parliament's resolution on the Mediterranean, then I believe that other than the twenty years that separate us from Barcelona or the eight years that separate us from the founding of the Union for the Mediterranean, many decades will pass before a real Mediterranean policy is achieved. We are not talking about tourism, we are not talking about agriculture and all the resources that the Mediterranean should have and make available to its people in order to grow. The international vision, from the point of view of critical issues, is limited to dealing with the case of Libya and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and deliberately ignores the Cyprus question, the Yemeni question and the Black Sea issue itself because the Mediterranean is not only a geographical expression, as others have said for Italy in the past, but is an area of overall, cultural and economic interest. We do not take into account the new transport policy that should have been planned for now after the new Suez cut, we do not enter into the substance of many issues that should be addressed with greater determination by the country that is most interested in the development of the Mediterranean. I shall abstain from voting, therefore, in the hope that in future we can have much more decisive decisions on our position with regard to what is happening in Europe. A continental Europe, always projected in the North and the East and always distracted and careless compared to what happens in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, the reports from Milan confirm that there are three deaths while another person is struggling between life and death. That's very serious news. We therefore confirm the Senate's participation in the mourning for the victims and solidarity with their families. These people lost their lives while they were doing their work, and that is why I believe it is necessary for the Senate Assembly to attend by observing a minute's silence. [[The President stands up and with you the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]] I confirm that we will continue to keep in touch with the Government so that, as soon as possible, it updates the Senate on the events, which obviously raises great concern and enormous questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u98	Madam President, I should like to point out that the request concerns, in the premissive part, the paragraph which begins with the words 'in this context', which ends with the following: 'from the conflict zones'.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u99	I put to the vote the proposal to vote on the document in title for separate parts, tabled by Senator Candiani. It's approved. I put to the vote the first part of document XXIV, n. 40, until the words "operational cooperation" are put to the vote. It's approved. I put to the vote the next part of document XXIV, No 40, from the words: "in this context, it believes to the words: "from the conflict zones". It's approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. I put the remainder of document XXIV, No 40 to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u100	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00384 (text 2), tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators, 1-00395, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators, 1-00396, tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators, 1-00399, presented by Senator Filippi and other senators, and 1-00400, presented by Senator Lucidi and other senators, on the rationalization plan of Poste italiani SpA. I call Senator Arrigoni to explain motion No 384 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the new rationalization plan launched by the Italian Post Office last December provides at national level for the closure of 455 post offices and the opening of 608 other days, which are considered unproductive or uneconomic. In my region, Lombardy, 65 offices are scheduled to be closed and the opening hours reduced in another 120. To get into the real world, which is all too often forgotten by those who make the decisions, and just to give some examples, it is planned to close the offices of the hamlets of Malnate, Cairate, Gazzada Schianno and Luino in the province of Varese and the post office of the hamlet of Gallignano, which is 6 kilometers far from the municipality of Soncino in the Cremonese. In Lecchese, seven offices in hamlets are destined for closure, including Sala al Barro and Rossino, which belong to Mountain Municipalities. In the province of Sondrio, defined entirely mountain, the axe is instead about to fall to Madonna di Tirano and Cosio Station. The decision of Poste is to be condemned in the method and in the substance; in the method, because the plan has been taken unilaterally, without involving the municipalities concerned, who only at the end of January have learned the news from the press and from union sources, several weeks before the official communication; in the substance, because many offices affected are found in peripheral fractions or fractions of mountain municipalities that in recent years are seeing disappear schools, shops, medical studies, pharmacies. This is a fatal blow to the social life of those communities, and it is a contribution to the depopulation of the territories. This, after the VAT on pellets, the lower discounts on heating gas oil and the IMU on cableway installations is another hard blow to the mountain. The Italian Post Office plan, which - let's remember - manages the services in a condition of substantial monopoly, will make the quality of the service even worse, denying the ratio proper to the universal service. Local communities involved, families, businesses, mayors, and employees themselves in Poste are alarmed and seriously concerned. But especially terrified are the elderly who, as is well known, do not have a car, and who walk to the post office to collect their pensions and pay their newsletters. These will be forced to make several kilometers based on an inefficient local public transport and will be even more affected by the government's cuts. That's irresponsible! Also because it can not be defined serious the measure of Italian Post to equip the porta letters of handhelds. Many older people, we remember, do not have an ATM! They are those elderly who since February 2012 have been actively rake their savings. Italian mails before forced them to no longer collect the pension in cash and therefore to leave their savings on the postal booklets, and now "premiates" them by closing the peripheral office. A bad deal for them! Fortunately, a general mobilization took place against the Poste plan. Municipalities, Provinces and Regions and citizens with popular petitions have reacted with determination to try to block and review the operation. Also on the part of many parliamentarians there was mobilization, and not only those of the North League, movement always attentive to the demands and requirements of the territory. Despite rumors of corridor talk about a delay of a few weeks of the entry into force of the plan, which to date is officially scheduled for Monday, April 13, considering the persistent absence of answers from ministers to whom many parliamentary questions are addressed, like Carroccio we have considered it appropriate for the Senate Assembly to express itself on this motion, presented on March 3 (over a month ago) and then reworded, to ask the government to engage on the problem. Colleagues, while aware that in view of the spending review, a rationalization of the posts must be carried out, accompanied by the development of innovative services, this is an opportunity to demonstrate, with facts and not with questions - which, alas, always end up on a dead track - that we are all for the protection of the weak territories. Quoting the saying: "To think wrong is a sin, but often it is right, we would not want the stop at the unofficial plan to be tactical and motivated by the local elections at the gates. They do not reassure us, in fact, the letters of cancellation sent already in recent days by Poste to the owners of the premises where the office candidate for closure is rented. And I come, therefore, to the commitments that we ask the Government with our motion: 1) provide the list of post offices involved in rationalization, specifying for each the relationship between costs and benefits, the costs of rentals, average deposits, the number of the population served; 2. carry out a timely verification of each individual rationalization measure in order to assess from time to time the extent of the inconveniences caused to users; 3) to publish the amount of State contributions paid to Poste Italiani in the last five years for the completion of the universal public service; 4. review, as assessed by the reduction of the public service offered, the amount of State contributions and the continuation of existing conventions, i.e. redistribute state contributions and reconsider the conventions in the light of the rationalisation of the services offered; 5. make known the amount of postal deposits broken down by Region; (6) to assess the possibility that certain services, which are not considered to be closely related to the completion of the universal service, are not offered under exclusive arrangements by Poste Italiani; 7. intervene with the appropriate instruments, also of a regulatory nature - read Agcom resolutions - to ensure the permanence of post offices already present in rural municipalities or in mountain municipalities, in short in disadvantaged areas; 8) ensure a postponement of the entry into force of the rationalisation plan, in order to allow for consultation between the society and the local administrations involved, with a view to assessing the impact of the interventions on the population concerned and the possible identification of alternative solutions more suited to the specific territorial context. Colleagues, what I have in my hands are the many questions that have been filed since the end of January to date to denounce the problem. They are presented by all parties and subscribed by many of you. I would certainly first mention those who do not appear in these documents, we mean, not to point them out, but precisely to emphasize - I am sure - the convinced and cross-cutting concern that Poste's plan is determining. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The Senators of the League, of Forza Italia, of the 5 Star Movement, of the Mixed Group, of that of the Autonomies and certainly also those of the Democratic Party, indicate here the general problem and cite the many Italian Municipalities of all the Regions - I repeat, all the Regions - on which the ax of Italian Posts should fall. Everyone basically asks for two things: the suspension of the plan and the concerted revision of the criteria for the protection of disadvantaged areas. Well, our motion goes incisively in that direction, and that is why we trust it can be supported. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u102	I call Senator Mandelli to explain motion No 395.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u103	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Poste italiano SpA, founded in 1862, is a public limited company whose capital is 100% owned by the Italian State through the Ministry of Economics and Finance. According to the latest available financial data, relative to 2013, it counts revenues for 8,978 billion euros and a net profit of 708 million euros, while the Poste Italiani group, in whose consolidated financial statements affect approximately 25 companies from this subsidiary - including Poste italiani - sees operating revenues for 26,268 billions and a net profit that exceeds 1,000 million euros. It should be noted that most of the revenues are carried out in the physical locations of the approximately 13,000 post offices distributed throughout Italy, where about 50 million transactions are carried out per day. I would like to give you some useful data for our reflections: 6 million postal current accounts, 13 million prepaid cards Postepay (equal to about 25 percent of the prepaid card market), 6.8 million Postamat cards, 13 million postal items per day, 220,000 daily parcels, 30 million newsletters per month, 250 million recommended per year. On December 16, 2014, engineer Francesco Caio, CEO and general manager of the Italian Poste Group, presented the new five-year strategic plan, called "Poste 2020." The plan provides for the gradual closure of 455 post offices at national level and the reduction of opening hours by an additional 600, which are considered unproductive and uneconomic. From this decision it is clear that the business plan put in place by Poste italiani gives precedence to a policy of the profit deriving from the business of the insurance services, the banking and financial services, the credit cards and rechargeable phones, to the detriment of the real necessities of the population, that it needs the supply of services of proximity, even in condition of probable lack of profitability. Postal services are of vital importance for the execution of many daily activities, such as the withdrawal of cash for postal current account holders, the payment of utilities, the deposit of currency in carrier mailbooks, the sending of urgent communications. The frightened closure or limitation of the hours of post offices poses serious difficulties for citizens and companies. In particular in small municipalities, especially in the mountainous areas, the abolition of a post office, like a medical office or a bank counter, would mean the failure of an essential service for a community; I am thinking, in particular, of elderly or disabled citizens. It seems obvious that there is a real and indispensable need to direct the management of services to economic sustainability, but this must not happen at the expense of the service and the maintenance of garrisons on the territory. The assumption that postal savings has been guaranteed by the State since 1875 ensures that some €320 billion is deposited at post offices. It is therefore clear that the State guarantee on postal savings invites citizens to entrust their savings to an entity, Poste Italiane, which offers more guarantees than any other bank operator. In essence, the Poste Italiane group is a reality that is confronted with the Italian market of savings and services inherent in it in a position of extreme privilege, which is even more accentuated by the fact that it is a public-controlled public limited company. That is why any reorganisation decision must take account of these considerations. By virtue of this privilege, Italian Post Office must grant in exchange to the State, that is to say to the citizens, services of social utility, even if uneconomic. In view of the above, we consider it appropriate to make these considerations. Firstly, the possible total privatisation of the company or the abolition of the service at local level cannot be dealt with unilaterally by the company or the government, but must instead take into account a discussion to be carried out at parliamentary level. On this basis, the Italian Post Group is invited to draw up a new industrial plan for the years 2015-2019 only after having made public the overall performance of the offices and having measured the inconveniences caused to families and companies that would result from the closure of some post offices. In this context, the motion commits the Government to assess the possibility of verifying the above-mentioned plan by also involving the ANCI (Italian National Association of Municipalities), in order to determine which are the counters to be considered indispensable anyway, also taking into account the process of aggregation of small municipalities. It also commits the Government to make known the objective and homogeneous criteria that would justify the intention to close or reduce the opening hours of the post offices, through a consultation between the management of Poste italiano SpA and the local administrators, in order to prevent unilateral decisions being made to the inhabitants of the rural communities of the country, who would see themselves deprived of the effective provision of a quality public service, as foreseen so far by the agreement signed between the Italian Post Office and the State. The motion still commits the Government to implement interventions to ensure that Poste italiano SpA takes care of and fully guarantees the essential public service, which presupposes the proximity and coverage of the national territory, also in order to better provide, as already happens in market logic, the other related services. Our wish is to implement the above points of placing the minority share of 40% of Italian Poste's shares in the regulatory market. This is a cross-cutting issue on which many parliamentarians have expressed their intention and I believe that our motion can gather the consent of the Assembly precisely because it goes in the sense of the fundamental organization of this country; a country that is based on proximity and on important services such as what mail renders to citizens every day. That is why we trust in a vote in favour of our motion. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call Senator Uras to explain motion No 396.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u104	Madam President, my illustration will be quite brief, partly because many of the issues that have been the subject of our motion are contained in the illustrations that preceded my speech. We are faced with yet another path of so-called rationalization of services, where renationalisation is about to reduce, dismantle and reduce rights. I say this because the universal postal service is conceived, in laws as in international treaties, as a right to be protected and a service to be guaranteed even in the most decentralised and peripheral realities of the country. It is not subject to a criterion of an economic nature; it is, on the contrary, to be considered absolutely as a right whose exercise must be protected, also in accordance with Article 5 of the Constitution. The initiative of Poste Italiani with the hypothesis of closing more than 450 post offices and the decision to reduce the service in more than 600 affect in particular the oldest population, the one that more than any other uses that type of service, and poses security problems. The hypothesis of replacing that activity with the so-called telematic letter holder poses in fact safety problems not to be underestimated, just for the elderly population who is interested in this service, not only for questions of private correspondence, but also for the use of financial services that are guaranteed by the post office. There is a problem of relation with the system of local autonomy; this plan must be shared with municipalities and regions. I quote the example of Sardinia which is one of the regions cut off from the system of national and European networks. Well, knowingly this Parliament, unfortunately, in many circumstances - the last was the European delegation law under discussion in the Commission - has shown that it does not want to be aware of this aspect which undermines the rights of a population in an absolutely intolerable way in terms of respect for the principles of equality contained in the Constitution. In Sardinia the presence of the Post Office is greatly reduced and Cortoghiana del Sulcis is hit, which is located near the mine of Nuraxi Figus, Turri, Genuri, Tuili, Pauli Arbarei, Nurallao, Borutta, Esporlatu, Ozieri, Nughedu San Nicolò, Ardara and Romana, all small Municipalities whose situation is more troubled and where the living conditions of the populations are most affected from the occupational point of view or of the connections, because we speak of inner centers, whose situation is therefore objectively of greater difficulty, also compared to the general one that pays the island. That is why it was and is envisaged in the procedure that the opinion of the local authorities should be taken into account, which has been done in a very superficial and unsatisfactory way. There are conditions, laid down by the norms of the Regulations, to which Poste Italiane must submit and which must be punctually recalled by the supervisory authority, that is, the Agcom, that must exercise this function maintaining those levels of branching of the postal service that up to now at least have been guaranteed (I speak of 96 percent of the Municipalities of our Country). Having said that, I think there is a chance of a successful conclusion to the debate on the motions before us, even if we all agree with each other on the content of the provisions. We are asking for things that should be guaranteed without the intervention of the Parliamentary House, but which unfortunately have not been. In the first place, we therefore ask Agcom and Poste Italiani to publish as soon as possible the complete list of post offices being rationalised, in order to ensure compliance with the obligation of the universal service provider to maintain the operation of a post office in every Italian municipality, as the norm would say, at least in the percentage of those that up to now have been concerned that I said before are 96 percent. Secondly, we call on the Italian Post Office to maintain the suspension of the implementation of the rationalisation plan, as it has been prepared, in order to ensure greater involvement of local authorities and their directors, so that effective compliance with the needs of citizens and the specificity of all the territories concerned can take place. We also call for solutions to be identified which will actually compensate for the inconveniences associated with the possible closure of counters or time reduction that would result from any rationalization plan that was approved. We ask that the use of the so-called telematic letter holder be clarified precisely, in order to understand what impact this instrument would have on serenity and operation or better on the access to the operation of the service by our elderly population. I think we should also assess the employment impact of the rationalisation project (and I have seen that in several motions this part is significantly recalled). We can't go on mechanizing services, with the goal of canceling paychecks. If you continue to cancel your paychecks in this country, we will have no kind of positive outcome from the point of view of economic development.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u105	I invite you to conclude, Senator Uras.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u106	URAS (Misto-SEL). I shall conclude, Madam President. Today's data also illuminates us: when we see a greater contraction in access to household credit of 5% more than the previous 4% and a decrease in loans to enterprises of 2.7% more than the -3 in January, it means that we are a country in crisis that cannot look with optimism to the future, because there are no people working and there are no people who earn income and are able to live in productive serenity for the rest of the country. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u107	I call Senator Santini to explain motion No 399.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Poste italiani SpA presented in December 2014 the new strategic plan 2015-2019, which redefines the universal postal service. It provides, among others, for the closure of more than 450 post offices and the reduction of opening hours in 608 offices. The reorganization envisaged in the Plan in question is very concerned about its social consequences, considering that Poste Italiane is obliged to guarantee the performance of a service of particular social value, also under a program contract with the Government. In fact, it should be remembered that the Authority for the Warranties in Communications (Agcom), with resolution of 2014, has modified the criteria of distribution of post offices, integrating them with specific forecasts to protect the smallest and remote realities of the Country, introducing prohibitions of closing of post offices in mountain and rural municipalities and those of the smaller islands. The same resolution also requires Poste to notify the local institutions well in advance, in relation to rationalization measures, in order to allow a comparison on the impact of the interventions on the population concerned and to identify possible alternative solutions. The need to make the Italian Post plan socially sustainable is therefore very strong. In fact, postal services are an essential service for the daily activities of families and businesses, as we know. This reorganisation contained in the Plan, if not reconsidered, would lead to disservices for citizens, especially those belonging to the weakest groups, such as the elderly or persons with reduced mobility. It should also be pointed out that the Plan presented would in particular affect post offices in small areas, especially hilly and mountain areas, even if they are included in the municipalities of the plain. These realities are quite similar to those mountain municipalities that are rightly safeguarded by Agcom's resolution. So this is a criterion that needs to be revised more flexibly, in order to avoid the closure of these offices, considering that these realities, which already live in poor conditions, postal services represent a point of reference and that their closure therefore becomes a problem for the whole community, contributing to the degeneration of the territory and its depopulation, with serious consequences also on its stability. Finally, it should be considered that the Government, with the approval of the agenda of 30 November 2014, has undertaken to consider any act of competence aimed at ensuring, during the privatisation process of Poste italiano SpA, the protection, social protection and the maintenance of the current employment levels of all workers employed at the company, with particular reference to those operating in the field of postal delivery. With this motion, the Democratic Party intends therefore to commit the Government, in its capacity as guarantor and responsible of the national postal service, to postpone first the entry into force of the rationalization plan of Poste, to consider with particular attention the social impact that this plan would produce on the individual local realities affected by the reorganization, to intervene on Poste italiani SpA, in order to favor a revision of the plan of reorganization of the post offices that takes into account the specificities of the social and economic context, the housing settlement, the social inclusion for the categories that we have remembered, the special conditions in which the municipalities concerned, with attention to the areas of the foothills, characterized by localities, hilly or mountain isolated, even if they are included in municipalities of plain. It is therefore committed to take every appropriate initiative so that Poste italiano SpA will proceed to the elaboration of a Plan that includes the participation of all the actors involved in the reorganization, the different institutional levels, national and regional, involving the territorial realities in the evaluation of the most important situations and at the same time verifying concrete possible alternative solutions that can mitigate the negative effects of the planned reorganization; to define the occupational impact of the Plan of rationalization of the net of the post offices maintaining the constructive intention to safeguard the levels of employment already undertaken in the memorandum of 2007 between the Italian Ministry of Communications and Post Office. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u109	I call Senator Lucidi to explain motion No 400.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Government, I have listened with great interest to the debate on these motions that we are presenting today and I would like to stress that what I do not think is emerging from this debate is the political fact that we can already make a strong decision, because the decision we are taking, or that we should take this morning, is between these two items that I have in hand: one is the postal savings card that, in fact, makes about 318 billion, and the other is the Bancoposta card. The context in which this plan of restructuring of Italian Post has already expressed a political data based roughly on five points: the first is the political point that has opened the perspective of this plan, the law of stability of 2015, that to article 1, paragraph 277, previews measures of rationalization of the service and of remodulation of the weekly frequency of collection and delivery on the entire national territory. Thus, Agcom's judgments redefined the postal service framework. CONSOB, a very important body, which states in its annual report: The plans planned by Poste have caused significant distortions in the relationship with customers. In response to a specific request from the inspection team, the company was unable to extrapolate data relating to the customer's actual financial situation. So there had already been strong criticism of this plan, but in recent days even the European Commission has intervened heavily on the plan because it has in fact already rejected a part that should enter into force next Monday, in particular the part that provides for the delivery of mail to alternate days, because it violates the right of access to the universal mail service that instead provides for daily delivery. Finally, in my opinion it is good to remember the words of the CEO of Poste italiani, Caio, who said that he is still willing to undertake initiatives of sharing on the territory, for example also with the Conference of the Regions, with the Provinces, with the Municipalities. In our opinion we are faced with a very important crossroads and we must choose whether to go towards what is a Plan that, as everyone has recalled, provides for a removal from those criteria of social responsibility that are even mentioned in the statute and the code of ethics of Italian Posts or if we want to approach these criteria. It is clear that Poste italiani was born with a mission well framed and specific. We have drifted away from this mission in time. It is not to be underestimated its extraordinary social and neighborhood function - I am still quoting the ethical code of Italian Posts - with poor categories such as disabled people and the large number of elderly people who use the Italian Post Office door almost as a single gateway to public institutions. I would like to mention one case on all of which I have also tabled a parliamentary question. I am referring to the management of queues. If any of you have ever gone to the post office, you will have noticed that the priority in managing queues is currently given to those who hold a bank account. On the other hand, a ticket is not provided for a disabled person or a pregnant woman or for similar situations, which require benefits, resulting from criteria of social responsibility. There has been an important point on which we must take action, and that is what we are asking for in our motion. I retrace the commitments we asked for with our motion. Firstly, we are calling for a review of the industrial plan in the light of what emerged from this brief introduction. It is clear that very critical aspects have already emerged, especially with the European Commission's decision to delete part of the plan. There's already a decision, put in black and white. We call for the full operation of universal service, to guarantee less-favoured areas, rural areas, mountain areas and smaller islands. We must take into account the distances, the geography of our territory, which is very widespread and not centralized on a few urban centers. We call for the accessibility of postal services to all social categories, not only to people with greater opportunities, but above all to people with disabilities. Again with our motion, we ask the Government for initiatives to support the weakest sections of our population because in these phases of access or closure of important garrisons could be greatly disadvantaged. We remember that in the law called Salva Italia it was provided the obligatory payment of pensions in postal accounts or bank accounts. This has effectively bound a whole series of people, a very important number, to access these offices. We must also take this into account. We are also calling, and not least, for the protection of employment conditions. The plan that includes the removal of 400 offices and the reduction of the timetable of 600 other offices brings with it some criticalities at the occupational level. We also ask the Government to take into consideration the findings made by CONSOB regarding the type of services offered and, above all, the fact that it can be taken into consideration to not exclusivity of the provision of some services by Poste. This puts it in a state of domination on the market. As a last point, as always, we ask that Parliament be properly informed about the plan and on what are the implementation methods that the Italian Post company SpA has in mind to put in place. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u111	I would like to inform you that the G1 and G2 agendas have been presented, which have already been printed and distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u112	Senator Panizza asked to explain the agenda G1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I take the floor to explain the agenda with which, together with my colleague Mr Berger, I ask for the Government's commitment to ensure that the new plan to rearrange Italian Posts does not penalise already disadvantaged territories, starting with mountain ones. In order to reorder, in recent weeks, there have been no lack of protests from the communities concerned and continuous solicitations from local authorities and institutional representatives, protests of which I and other colleagues spoke. The Council of the Autonomous Province of Trento, for example, approved a specific motion on 5 March last. A question was put to the House by the Interparliamentary Group for the Development of the Mountain and signed by 55 Members. Also in the Senate, several questions have been filed, also by myself, by the colleagues of the Group for Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, confirming that there is strong concern about the reordering plan. Poste Italiane - it has been said - is a wholly public company that operates under a regime of substantial monopoly and is of course financed by the State. Therefore, it has the duty to devise solutions so that the rationalization of the service does not prefigure itself as cancellation for specific territories. This is a duty, regulated also by specific norms, beginning with the Agcom resolution, which obliges Italian Post Office to confront local institutions with the aim of limiting to the maximum possible inconveniences for the populations concerned, identifying alternative solutions more responding to the specific territorial context. On 22 January 2014, the president of the Authority for the guarantees in communications, responding to a specific request of the president of the parliamentary Intergroup for the development of the mountain, Mr Borghi, recalled that in the appropriate resolution the Authority considered it appropriate to include specific prohibitions of closure of those offices that serve the users who live in the remote areas of the Country, considering prevailing the need to guarantee the use of the service in the disadvantaged areas, also in the face of very low volumes of traffic and high operating costs. Again in this letter, the guarantor clearly explains how the closure bans - it is worth pointing out - protect situations identified on the basis of objective parameters: the mainly mountain nature and housing scarcity are derived from ISTAT classifications and demographic data. However, the indications of the plan did not seem to go in this direction and, for all these reasons, we welcomed the suspension of the plan by Poste Italiani to open the table of comparison with the local authorities, in essence with the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. I also want to point out that the small mountain communities have been able over the years to find forms of collaboration with Poste Italiani and have often managed to solve the problem; I quote, for example, the case of the Municipality of Valfioriana, in Trentino, a territory consisting of countless small hamlets at the beginning of the Val di Fiemme, which made the old town at the disposal of the Poste and found the formula to collaborate directly at the opening of the door. In Trentino the world of cooperation is also being activated to make available the points of sale of cooperative families and the counters of rural coffers. As you can see, the mountain is not looking but reacting by making available its own structures and human resources. However, the question remains: in Trentino, for example, to close, as has been predicted, post offices that serve territories with low population density, but that are inserted in a particularly large area and with a population tending to age, would be considered as substantial cancellation of the service. And those who know the mountain know well that its depopulation and its impoverishment pass precisely from dynamics of this type, that is from the difficulty of those who live there to access the services. It is, in essence, an event that must be included in a broader logic, namely that of the protection and valorization of important portions of the national territory. On the agenda, I would ask the Government to take note of these concerns, to take action to ensure that the criteria for the distribution of points of access to the postal network are effectively those laid down in the Ministerial Decree of 7 October 2008 and that, in particular, there is an intervention against Italian Post Office in order to involve directly in the choices the local authorities concerned and take into account their proposals. But we also call for due consideration to be given to the indications of the Interparliamentary Group for the Development of the Mountain, preventing the reorganization of the postal service from being a real impoverishment of communities, such as the mountain areas and the smaller islands, which have already been severely penalized. I realize that the accounts have to come back and that the plan has to respond, rightly, to the principles of economic sustainability but I am also convinced that savings can be made in another way and that when the territories depopulate the consequences become irreversible. I share many of the points made by those who have spoken before me and who have pointed out some of the issues I have raised on our agenda. I hope that the Government will accept this agenda or that the House will vote in favour of it in order to avoid further penalisation of territories that are already in great difficulty. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bellot asked for the G2 agenda. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u114	Madam President, the G2 agenda contains, in the premises, the needs described precisely in order to commit the Government to give an answer on a cross-cutting issue on which all the Groups, pointing out otherwise the logic and the reasons, then came to concrete demands. First, it is necessary not to cut services simply in order to meet the needs of families and territories that are opposed to the needs of Poste italiano SpA. The logic of profit, in fact, surpasses the needs of services in territories that are often still disadvantaged, territories where there are families in difficulty or in any case that weak part of our society that would have to suffer a further difficulty, a further cut, in the face of a system of services that is already, in some ways, lacking in some areas. So this substantial monopoly becomes an inconvenience, an act of empire, an act of non-comparison with the territories and local authorities. Let's think of the administrations and mayors who have become lonely and only gabellieri for this Government that then does not pose the problem of giving answers on the services. And here again Parliament must interact to bring to the attention of the Government a problem that is vitally important and of common sense: we must avoid this intercourse but act directly on what, we repeat, is a service due to some areas in particular, certain situations and certain categories. Let us remember that we still have great realities with older people who, among other things, have been required by legislation to go to post offices in order to withdraw or deposit their pensions. So it is a mockery to have to ask for help, support in the face of a need. And here we refer, in particular, to the mountain areas that the so-called Delrio law has considered with such attention, areas characterized by particular natural landscape, where life is difficult. We then realize that these areas are constantly suffering cuts, impoverishment, increasing life difficulties. That is why we have paid attention to the new means of accessing postal services. Let's ask ourselves, however, if all the Italian territory is covered and how many are the realities still disaligned from the point of view of computer science and connections. In some areas there is a complete lack of network and accessibility. Finally, let us ask ourselves how these people can, not only because of age but also because of economic problems, readapt their lives by committing resources to a connection to access a service by removing even the bread from the mouth. We're talking nonsense, things that those who don't feel can't even understand. With our agenda, therefore, we ask that all this situation of cuts in services with the territories be evaluated and, we repeat, with the mayors who cannot be only tax collectors who collect taxes that the Government does not have the courage to request directly. The mayors must be, instead, the first principals of the territory, must be those who know the reality, the territory, the families, the people and the necessary services. No one denies that there is need to get to see savings also to be tesaurizzare but concertandoli with the territories, also according to the virtuosity of the territories themselves. Therefore, with our agenda, we highlight the difficulty, in particular, of mountain areas and disadvantaged areas. We are against this cut, carried out without any comparison and no motivation except in the logic of the gain of the senses, a logic that cannot be absolutely applied to what Poste Italiani must guarantee as a service. Agcom's resolution also refers to these disadvantaged areas. It is well pointed out that predominantly mountainous areas or areas with low population density must be protected. This government claims that the disadvantaged areas do not suffer depopulation, they receive attention, guaranteeing the maintenance of the mountain garrison, but it is necessary to provide services to ensure all this. Even so, we push to escape from these territories. This goes just in the opposite direction to what is the content of the resolution, in particular with the dismemberment of territories that must instead be protected and helped in everything and for everything through a continuous service. Not to mention the employment aspect. On it, however, the Government had a comparison and assessed what the impact could be at a very difficult economic time through the maintenance of access points. This is a very large number because only 455 post offices will reduce opening hours and 608 will be closed. That is also questionable. On what grounds, on what choices and in what way are the timetables of these offices streamlined? In what days and on what basis? What, if any, are the studies and comparisons made in order to arrive at this motivation of alternation of opening hours? With this agenda we ask for an intervention precisely in order to respond to Agcom's resolution, so that there is attention to mountain and rural areas and poor, so that Poste Italiani refers to a service as a universal service and not to a service that is based only on economicity and, therefore, on the answers from the point of view of company results, but still has the nature that such service must have. Perhaps a vision that was more related to the nature that the service had from the beginning, and less to the complementary services that at the time have aggregated, would be a further evaluation to be carried out. For our part we are convinced that this postponement should be asked, but that the evaluation to arrive at this plan of cuts and rationalization should be precisely shared and combine with the needs that have an economic nature but in particular, and first of all, nature of service for the users who must access it. With the agenda G2 we ask for all this and we are sure, given the sharing of both the motions and the agendas (which all go in this direction of a strong return of this cut without any comparison), that you can be seated at a table to evaluate the needs of a country that has already suffered, in particular in certain areas, cuts and harassment absolutely unfair.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u115	As you are not included in the debate, I have the floor to speak to the representative of the Government, to whom I would ask to give an opinion on the motions and agendas submitted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u116	Madam President, I would like to thank the senators and the senators for finding in the texts presented a spirit (or at least to me as it seemed) which is not different from the one with which the government follows this issue, both with the political accentuations that everyone legitimately expresses. In the preamble, even if you know that, I would like to keep to the facts, which becomes a common heritage, that the postal sector, at national and Community level, has in recent years been affected by profound changes. This is not the time for analysis. I limit myself to mentioning the most important change, the passage of the functions of regulation and supervision from this Ministry to the Authority for the guarantees in the communications pursuant to Decree-Law No 201 of 2011, then converted. The current programme contract requires that Poste SpA transmit to the Authority, annually, the list of post offices and delivery structures that do not guarantee conditions of economic equilibrium and that the Authority, in the exercise of its supervisory powers, carries out its task and has the prerogative to express assessments. I must say that Poste SpA has confirmed on several occasions that, according to its opinion, all the interventions included in the rationalisation plan are fully respectful of the current legislation. However, despite these changes and the skills recalled that refer to the Authority, the Government did not consider to be lacking its own political role, a general function that I have heard recall in many interventions, which aims to protect the implementation of an industrial plan and to meet the needs of an activity of Poste aimed at the efficiency of management with the consideration of the social role and the impact that, on many communities, the implementation of the plan. For this reason we have promoted an encounter with the president of Agcom Cardani and with the managing director Caio and we have urged Poste to that the implementation of the plan was preceded by a serious confrontation with the Regions, the municipalities and the local authorities concerned, not so much for mere information requirement, but for the comparison to arise the possibility to find together solutions that reduced the social impact of which I have said on many territories, without compromising the search for efficiency. We continue to follow this debate and I would like to say, to the senators and senators (but of course this applies to all colleagues, including the other branch of Parliament) that, apart from the initiatives legitimately taken here, a concrete aid that we can give is to urge all the administrators of the realities involved to be active in the confrontation between the Regions and the Post Office. This is not a bureaucratic passage. In all circumstances, the Ministry and the Government have intervened in order to offer their willingness to be active and to seek a synthesis between the needs of the community and those of the company. It seemed to me, frankly, that this spirit was also in the texts presented; for this reason the choice I made in expressing the opinions is to examine one by one the commitments, seeking the possibility of formulations, where there is no radical dissent, that allow them to be accepted. I have taken the decision to put myself back to the House on the whole part of the presmesse, because if we were to enter into the assessment of the premises and of the reading that each Group legitimately gives of the plan and its motivations, we would probably lose the opportunity to accept many of the ideas that have emerged, while I believe it is useful that there are voices that testify to how Parliament enters into these dynamics and is able to take on the expectations. Therefore, Mr President, apart from the premises (for which each Group has the political responsibility for the reading it gives), I would like to point out the opinion for each of the commitments required of the Government in the arrangements for the motions under discussion. (At 2 p.m.) (GIACOMELLI, State Secretary for Economic Development). As regards motion No 384 (text 2), tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators, I propose that the first point of the device be reworded as follows: To urge Poste italiani SpA to publish, at the end of the current comparison with local authorities, the complete list of post offices close to closing or affected by a reduction in opening hours, in order to ensure compliance with the obligations of the universal service provider such as, in particular, the maintenance of the operation of a post office in 96 percent of Italian municipalities. As far as this commitment is concerned, it must be borne in mind that, of course, it is Agcom that monitors compliance with the plan. I believe that it is possible to urge Italian Post Office to publish, at the end of the comparison phase, the complete list of post offices close to closing, but the verification of compatibility with the criteria of universal service is the responsibility of the Authority. I think it is clear to everyone, except if there has been a mistake, that Poste's plan is within those criteria. The real issue is whether there is a political space and a relationship between local and Poste administrations to go beyond the only criteria of universal service: this is the way we have to go. For this reason - always with reference to the motion submitted by Senator Crosio - point 2) of the device cannot be accepted as formulated, because it is Agcom that must carry out the punctual verification. The Government could possibly express a favourable opinion on the point only if a reformulation was carried out in which the Government undertook to urge Agcom to verify every rationalization measure, although objectively I believe that the Authority is already informed and motivated about the performance of its role and its prerogatives. I would also ask for a rewording of point 3 of the mechanism, so that the Government undertakes: To give Parliament the overall indication of the state contributions made in the last five years to Poste italiani SpA for the completion of the universal public service. Instead, the Government expresses an opinion contrary to point 4) of the device, because Article 1, paragraph 274, letter b), of Law No 190 of 2014, has already revised downwards the maximum amount of transfers charged to public finance for the performance of the universal service and, from 2015, that maximum amount is confirmed to a lesser extent than the transfers granted in previous years. As for point 5 of the proposal, I cannot even propose a rewording, because I think it is well known that, with regard to the collection of postal deposits, there is a role that is more than ours than the Bank of Italy, so the criteria, principles and modalities are governed by the Bank of Italy and not by a political assessment. On the other hand, I am in favour of point 6 of the proposal, which calls for an assessment of the possibility of certain services being offered not under the exclusive arrangements of Italian Post Office. In this regard, it should be noted that the 2008 Directive of the European Community was transposed by Legislative Decree No 58 of 2011 and that, for the exceptions that that Directive allowed (notifications of judicial documents and violations of the Road Code), the Government, with the draft competition law, proposes that the exclusivity regime be exceeded. This proposal is therefore following Parliament' s evaluation process and I believe that there is room for this further increase there. I am therefore in favour of point 6). In point 7 of the operative part, I propose the following rewording of the initial part of the period: "to intervene with the Authority, with the appropriate intercourse, so that it is guaranteed" (always because there is a respect for the prerogatives and roles that do not concern the Government). Point 8 of the device, which I believe concerns other motions as well, provides for a time adjustment. I propose the following rewording of the initial part of the period: "to verify that the postponement communicated on 7 April 2015 by Poste italiani SpA" is confirmed. The postponement was formally communicated to the Italian Post Office; therefore I believe that the request to ensure that this postponement is confirmed, which we believe is appropriate and which goes in the sense of the commitment requested for a non-formal consultation phase with the local authorities. With the same spirit, I face motion No 395, which was first signed by Senator Mandelli. On point 1) I propose the following rewording: "to verify that the postponement communicated by Poste is confirmed - of course it is the same principle as the previous motion - "to the end of the confrontation in place with regions and local authorities." On point 2, I am in favour. On point 3) I propose the following rewording: "to urge the company Poste italiani SpA and ANCI to continue the constructive confrontation already in progress, aimed at discussing the rationalization plan of the post offices". In point 4) I propose the following rewording: "a urge Poste italiani SpA and local authorities to confront each other in order to avoid that unilateral decisions taken are inconvenient to the inhabitants of the most disadvantaged municipalities of the country, which would see themselves deprived of the effective provision of a quality public service, as provided for by the agreement signed between the Italian Post Office and the State". In point 5, I propose the following rewording: "to implement, as far as competence is concerned, interventions to ensure that Poste italiani SpA takes care of and fully guarantees the essential public service that presupposes the proximity and coverage of the national territory also in order to better provide, as already happens in market logic, other services". It is always about making the Government's commitments consistent with Agcom's role. Moving on to motion 396 at Senator Orellana's first signature. On point 1) I am in favour, provided that the following rewording is accepted: "a solicitare Agcom e Poste italiane SpA, as far as their respective competence is concerned, so that, at the end of the current comparison with Regions and Municipalities, the complete list of post offices close to closing or affected by a reduction in opening hours" will be published. On this subject I would like to be clear with the Senate. I have inserted the phrase "at the end of the current comparison" for the publication and indication of offices, because it is my belief that comparison with local authorities can lead to a decrease in the number of offices then affected by the closure. If the institutions first oblige Poste to justify the closures announced it will be much more difficult then for Poste, in my opinion, to return to a decision that it has publicly motivated, while if we do so at the end of the comparison I believe that we do something useful. I am in favour of point 2 of the proposal. From this point of view, we also agree that the opportunities of new telematics services should be fully illustrated and disseminated. With regard to the commitments of motion No 1-00399 before Senator Filippi, of which a text 2 was tabled during the sitting, I am in favour of point 1) of the operative part, and points 2, 3 and 4 of the opinion is in favour if they are combined in this way: To assess with particular attention the social impact of the rationalization plan of the offices of Poste italiani SpA for the years 2015‐2019, urging further Poste italiani SpA to pay particular attention to the need to ensure the service in the most critical situations with particular attention to the foothill areas characterized by the presence of isolated hill and/or mountain towns and/or villages included in plain municipalities and the communities of citizens, mainly elderly with reduced mobility. I am in favour of point 2-a. In point 5, I propose the following rewording: "to urge the company Poste italiana SpA to pay particular attention to development in the context of the implementation of the plan." I am in favour of point 6, provided that it is reworded as follows: (a) to ask Poste italiani SpA to specify the employment impact of the rationalization plan for the post office network in its implementation under the scheme. On point 7, I am in favour. With reference to motion No 400, at the first signature of Senator Lucidi, on the first three points I express a favourable opinion if this reformulation was accepted: "to intervene at Poste italiano SpA in order to ask that it continue to confront the local authorities in order to mitigate the effect of its industrial plan on the services offered, also following previous rationalization interventions, guaranteeing the full operation of the universal service, in particular for citizens residing in disadvantaged areas of the country and/or less mobility, also considering the age of age; to do so, in particular, that Poste italiani SpA, also through programmatic commitments undertaken under the new contract, adopts initiatives aimed at enhancing the capillary network of the post offices, and in particular the potential and characteristics of the same as offices of proximity to the service of users, especially in territorial areas with low housing density and to allow the same offices, in addition to the full supply of the universal postal service, "underline" the expression in addition to the full supply of the goods can provide - in addition to the decree "save Italy" regarding the payment of pensions - additional public utility services to the citizen on the basis of conventions with individual public administrations. Point 4) is accepted with the following rewording: "to assess, in the event that the reduction envisaged by the Poste italiano SpA plan is implemented, initiatives to support the weakest population group, such as disabled and elderly people." A reformulation is also required of point 5), because the reference to companies working with Poste is too specific for the Government and foreshadows a knowledge and possibility of intervention that there are not. However, since the spirit is acceptable, the proposed wording is of such a nature: "to act to solicit from Poste italiani SpA the greatest attention, in the implementation of the industrial plan, to the impact on the overall employment levels of the sector". Moreover, in relation to this aspect, Poste, requested in the definition of a response, announces that since 2013 it has started a process of hiring employees of delivery agencies that have been left out of work, in fact with the effect of internalization, partial or total, of the delivery activity, but above all of intervention on employment. In point 6, it is also asked to reword in this sense: "to ask Poste italiani SpA to provide detailed information on CONSOB's reporting, also in order to adapt, if necessary, to the requirements set out in the same report." On points 7 and 8, I am in favour. Then there are the two G1 and G2 agendas, on which the same consideration applies to the motions: I am going back to the House with regard to the premises and assessments contained, while I am only talking about commitments. I propose a rewording only on the second paragraph of agenda G1, of this content: to be activated, within the framework of its prerogatives. On the other commitments, I give a favourable opinion. I also propose that the second commitment of the G2 agenda be reworded in the following terms: "to urge the competent authority to ensure that post offices already present in rural municipalities or mountain municipalities are maintained, in accordance with the universal service principles defined by Agcom." Also of the third commitment I propose the following rewording: "to verify that the postponement of the implementation of the new rationalization plan of Poste italiani SpA is confirmed, so that the current comparison between the company is completed and then continues with the rest of the existing text. That is the overall view.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u117	Colleagues, we must take a bit of a look at our work in relation to the reformulation proposals, also considering that we still have a number of votes to be taken, including on ratifications, and that question time is scheduled at 4 p.m. So let's settle this, in terms of answers and explanations of vote, that is, the Offices will close before the motions have been approved. Since no one requests to speak for an explanation of vote, the Presidency authorizes the delivery of any written texts which will be published in the annex to today's Minutes. Senator Arrigoni, do you intend to accept the proposed rewording of the provisions of motion 384?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u118	Mr President, we take note of the opinions on points 4 and 5 of our motion, of which we call for a split vote. You have proposed a rewording on points 1, 2 and 8: I ask whether it concerns only the first part, leaving unchanged the remaining part of the points as they have been formulated.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u119	Senator Arrigoni, I found an opinion in favour of point 6, against points 4 and 5, and a request for the rewording of points 1), 2, 3, 7 and 8).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u120	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I welcome the request for the rewording of points 3 and 7, while in relation to points 1, 2) and 8, I ask whether it concerns only the incipit and retains the following parts unchanged.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u121	Colleagues, I invite you to follow the work carefully, because with reformulations of this scale we will never be able to get to write a text on every single point. Otherwise, we'll finish next month. I therefore call on the Government representative to reread the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u122	Mr President, I read the rewording proposed in point 1 of the operative part of motion 384 (text 2): the Government is committed to solicit Poste italiane SpA to publish, at the end of the current comparison with local authorities, the complete list of post offices close to closure or affected by a reduction in opening hours, in order to ensure compliance with the obligations of the universal service provider, such as the maintenance of the operation of a post office in 96 per cent of Italian municipalities.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u123	Senator Arrigoni, do you accept this reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u124	I welcome the rewording, Mr President, and I would ask the Secretary-General to read the rewording of point 2 of the device.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u125	Undersecretary Giacomelli, I invite you to read the rewording of point 2 of the device. Colleagues, however, I would remind you that five motions have been tabled: if we have to look at each of these in this way, I shall move on to the next item on the agenda, so that we can distribute the texts of the rewordings and then come back to the vote on the motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u126	On point 2) of the device, as originally formulated, the Government's opinion was not favourable, because the timely verification that is required is not the competence of the Government, but of the Agcom. However, in the spirit of which it has been said, I propose the following rewording: "to urge the Agcom to carry out a punctual verification of every measure of rationalization of the post offices by Poste italiani SpA, in order to evaluate it and then continues as in the original text of the motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u127	Senator Arrigoni, do you accept the reformulation proposed by the government?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u128	I welcome you, Mr President. I also confirm our request to vote separately on points 4 and 5 of the motion, separately from the rest of the motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u129	Therefore, according to custom, since Senator Arrigoni has accepted the rewordings proposed by the Government, we will proceed to the vote for separate parts of the premises and points 1), 2, 3, 6, 7) and 8) of the device, as well as reworded, on which there is the favorable opinion of the Government, and then we will vote for points 4) and 5) of the device, on which the Government has expressed the contrary opinion. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 384 (text 3). CIOFFI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and points 1), 2, 3, 6, 7) and 8) of motion No 384 (text 3), tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of points 4 and 5 of motion No 384 (text 3), tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Mandelli, the Government gave a favourable opinion on point 2 and proposed a rewording of points 1), 3), 4 and 5 of the operative part of motion 395. Do you accept the rewordings proposed by the Government? MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). I welcome them, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 395 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Do I ask the presenters if they accept the rewording of point 1) of motion 396 proposed by the Government? URAS (Misto-SEL). We welcome you, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 396 (text 2), tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 399 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u132	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the separate vote on motion No 399 (text 2), in order to vote on point 1 of the proposal separately from the following points of the proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u133	I would like to ask Senator Filippi if he agrees with the reformulations proposed by the Undersecretary. FILIPPI (PD). I welcome the proposed reformulations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and point 1) of motion No 399 (text 3), tabled by Senator Filippi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the remainder of motion No 399 (text 3), tabled by Senator Filippi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Does Senator Lucidi accept the proposal for reformulation made by the Undersecretary on points 1), 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6) of motion No 400? LUCIDES (M5S). I welcome them, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 400 (text 2), tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Panizza, do you accept the proposed reformulation by the Undersecretary on the G1 agenda? PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I welcome you, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bellot, do you accept the rewording of the G2 agenda? BELLOT (Misto-FAL). I welcome it, as long as there is a real and concrete comparison as you have indicated. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1 (text 2), presented by Senators Panizza and Berger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2 (text 2), tabled by Senator Biinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u134	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1791, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senator Fattorini, acting, and Lumia, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Fattorini, to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u135	Mr President, the draft law before us, which has already been adopted by the House of Members, brings about the ratification of the 14 amendments to the 1980 Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, adopted in Vienna in 2005. The text before us also lays down rules for the adaptation of national law. It aims to adapt national legislation to the forecasts of the 1980 package of amendments to the Convention resulting from the worsening of the context of global security following the events of 11 September 2001, in particular by extending the document also to the area of the transport of nuclear materials, the general use of materials and the protection of installations, and with particular attention to the concept of sabotage. The 1980 Convention is the only binding international instrument on the physical protection of nuclear material, which lays down measures on the prevention, detention and sanctions of infringements in this area, with particular reference to the international transport phase. In force at international level since February 1987, the Convention has been ratified by Italy by Law No 704 of 1982. Specifically, the amendments provide for the physical protection of nuclear material used for peaceful purposes, during use, storage or transport, as well as the prevention and punishment of offences relating to unauthorised and criminal use of such material and related facilities. The Contracting States are obliged to draw up and implement measures to effectively ensure the implementation of the Convention in order to prevent, in particular, the theft or disappearance of the nuclear material for which they are responsible, as well as the sabotage of nuclear installations on their territory. The States Parties to the Convention are also entirely responsible for the development, application and maintenance of a physical protection system on their territory. Cooperation between countries is also envisaged in the event of theft or sabotage or the risk of such occurrences, to be carried out in the form of exchange of information with the guarantee of their confidentiality in relation to third parties. The offences covered by the Convention may result in extradition procedures between Member States. Further aspects are related to the principles of environmental damage and the security of classified information. The draft law of ratification and enforcement consists, in the text proposed by the Commissions, of ten articles, the first two of which form part of the authorization to ratify and the order of enforcement. Other provisions relating to areas of competence for foreign affairs are contained in Article 3, which refers to certain additional definitions introduced by the amendments of 2005, in order to clarify unequivocally the meanings used ('active physical protection', 'passive physical protection', 'physical protection plan') and to identify precisely the specific competences for individual actions for the protection of nuclear materials and installations. Article 4 identifies the administrations responsible for implementing the Convention. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation is responsible for international compliance, the Ministry of the Interior for the active physical protection of nuclear installations and nuclear materials, also in the course of transport, the Ministry of Economic Development for the passive physical protection of nuclear materials and installations, the Ministry of the Environment for the exercise of the functions and duties of the State in environmental matters, finally, for the formulation of technical opinions, for the investigation of violations and for the exercise of controls on protection. Article 5 specifies the competences with regard to the reference scenarios for the threat to nuclear materials and installations, as a necessary basis for the preparation of passive physical protection plans, while Article 6 sets out the authorisation framework for the physical protection of nuclear materials and installations as well as for transport. In all other respects, and in particular with regard to the administrative sanctions introduced by the draft law, we refer to the report by my colleague from the Justice Commission. It should be noted that the application of the measure will not result in any greater burden on the state budget, affecting institutional activities already carried out under current legislation by competent administrations. Finally, it is clear that the agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, with the European Union's legal system and with other international obligations assumed by our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u136	I call the rapporteur, Senator Lumia.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u137	Mr President, as far as the justice aspect is concerned, I would just like to remind my colleagues that we have some important rules relating precisely to the protection of nuclear sites and, therefore, we have also provided for a kind of new instrument which can combat this condition of possible aggression and safety by introducing a new case. I would also remind my colleagues that for this new crime the jurisdiction of the court is in collegiate composition. In Article 10 of the draft law, we have also made a significant modification by the Justice Commission, because we referred to the Senate Act 1345 on environmental crimes, which we approved right here in the Senate. In this law text we deal with the same arguments and we therefore considered that in that bill, which is now at the evaluation of the Chamber, the case was better outlined. Therefore, we have removed this part, in order to allow the House to possibly improve, remaining in the furrow that traced the Senate. This is the only change that we have made and we confirm the need to approve the measure as soon as possible, since we have an international deadline for Italy to be prepared for.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u138	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u139	Mr President, the two rapporteurs have already well explained the content of the measure in the Commission, where we have had the opportunity to understand the importance of the measure and the urgency of its approval. The rapporteur, who was responsible for the part of the foreign policy, outlined the most important points. Mr Lumia referred to one of the aspects of the new criminal case which, among other things, Mr Stefani also stressed in the Commission, stressing the importance of the new criminal case. I therefore believe that the measure should be adopted as soon as possible and that, at the same time, I am voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u140	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u141	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u142	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.39 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u143	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u144	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Colleagues, appreciated the circumstances, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-426.ana.u145	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 15.03 p.m.
