ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,33 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00076 (text 2), tabled by Senator Ranucci and other Senators, 1-00336 (text 2), tabled by Senator Crosio and other Senators, 1-00366, presented by Senator Cioffi and other Senators, 1-00410, presented by Senator Orellana and other Senators, and 1-00411, presented by Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators, on the creation of the ultra-wide band network. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting there was an illustration of the motions, the discussion and the reply of the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u7	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I believe that before we move on to the explanations of vote we must comment on the Government's proposals for rewording motions. This morning the Government made its comments on the motions, but we could not say whether or not we accept these rewordings. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We will do so at the time of the single vote, Senator Crosio. Would you like to speak in an explanation of vote? CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Yes. Mr President, as I anticipated, we have a full cooperative spirit on this issue. As I have been able to observe this morning, for a long time in Parliament - not only in this, because this also applies to the previous parliamentary term, which I can speak of from my own experience - we have seen very little. Perhaps we are opening today, as far as this game is concerned, not a line of credit to the Government, but to the Undersecretary because we appreciated the fact that the Government will play its part in the debate this morning. It is good that the government, as we all remembered this morning, is the director within this important game, in this functional mix, as I called it this morning, between the private and public parts. We appreciate the unusual availability (but on which we will watch) by the Undersecretary, who used the word "periodicity" to see the progress of the work. We'll compare on that. Therefore, my colleagues and I will vote in favour of the majority motion of which Senator Ranucci is the first signatory, with some reluctance with regard to point 3 because we do not agree to favour fibre investment legislation with FTTH technology, as well as FTTB technology. It is hoped that the government will have the same audacity as Mr Ranucci's motion. It is clear that there will be a comparison from the economic point of view and, as I recalled this morning, the new technologies and the new market proposals that have come out in these days, in these hours, will determine what the action will be. Anyway, he's in. Of course, we will vote in favour of the motion tabled by myself and other senators, because it is certainly the best one written. We will also vote in favour of the motion tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. We will abstain on the motion of which Senator Orellana is the first signatory, as we believe that it is a motion without great prospects, a bit anachronistic from my point of view, because in fact it contains an analysis - for God's sake - also punctual on certain passages, but a little 'dispersive (this is what we think). It's almost more like a question to the government than a motion. We see it as a perspective of work with the Government that we must give, because we definitely share the fact that in our country we must overcome the generational gap and eliminate the issue of an literacy regarding the computer system of the network. However, here we are talking about the structure of the network and not the users of the network, so on this motion, with due respect, all we can do is abstain. In conclusion, the Group of the North League, as I recalled this morning, has always tried to favour in Italy, with regard to the new network infrastructures and in particular for the NGNs, a Country project in which there is a director. The director must be absolutely the government. We do not see any other alternative, because, if we leave the initiative to the individual regions for example, if not even to the individual Provinces, as has been done in recent years, we will find on the territory a dispersion of planning, a dispersion of technologies and, consequently, a dispersion of resources. This is not good: it is necessary to find a point of synthesis that is nevertheless synergistic to those that are the investments and visions of the operators. We will see in the future if the network society will be there and how it will be constituted: it is certain, however, that it will have to be constituted, because the gap that we have paid also in recent years has been to have an incumbent that has made anyway the beautiful and the bad weather. Last but not least, the signal that has recently come from the European Commission, which has fined Telecom about EUR 100 million for unfair competition, clearly shows how difficult the digital market is from this point of view. The project we would like to see achieved is a neutral network, free competition. This would definitely benefit citizens and the end user, as it happens or as it should happen in all civil countries. We therefore approach this problem by sharing what the Undersecretary Giacomelli said this morning: there is really a bit to be ashamed - and I use the expression that the Undersecretary did not want to use this morning - for our country as we were unable to plan and realize something important on the net, while making available in these years of resources that however, as I said before, have been scattered throughout the territory, without a planning. So I think there really are the conditions for something to be done. For our part, Mr. Undersecretary, we will surely monitor the government's action. However, we are quite perplexed about what we have been able to read lately about the DEF regarding the resources available for the network. I hope that the resources can be increased or that there is still the possibility of finding funding systems. We are then convinced that Europe itself, which imposes on us the Digital Agenda, must play its part, because making a fibre network in our country is certainly different from how it can be done, for example, in Holland: at the time we also reminded Commissioner Neelie Kroes, who filled his mouth right here in the Senate, saying what had to be done. With all due respect, however, an account is to wire and make a network in the historical centers or on a territory with the geomorphological conformation of Italy, and an account is to make a fiber net on a ground where you find just a few rocks, not even the rock, so it becomes much easier per mile to create an infrastructure. This must therefore be the flywheel that we must put on the field in order to recover what our country has lost in these years; we must put on the field a flywheel also to fill that generational gap that unfortunately in our country is still too pushed, but here would open another speech. Today we are talking exclusively about network infrastructures, which is why, in a very collaborative spirit, we approach this important step that our country must take. I repeat, we will watch over the action of the government, we will be breathing down your neck, trying to be critical, when we have to be critical, and constructive, when we have to be constructive, in the hope that there will be that qualitative leap that has never been made. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u10	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to clarify. During the afternoon session there was an illustration of the motions, the discussion and the reply of the representative of the Government, who proposed some rewordings. At the moment, however, I understand that we do not know whether or not these proposals for reformulation have been accepted. I wonder, then, how is it possible to make an explanation of vote on a text that we do not yet know what it is, whether the original text or the reworded text.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u11	I would like to ask the motion-makers whether they are already able to give an answer to the rewording proposal put forward by the Government, but I would like yes or no. Otherwise, I would ask those who have presented the motions, if they have not already done so, to verify the rewordings proposed by the Government, which are rather complex and articulated. This, if the presenters are already able to give them to me, otherwise we will see them in the process of voting on every single motion. I personally believe that we should do so on every single motion, because otherwise we cannot understand anything. If those who speak for an explanation of vote already want to tell the Presidency, they can do so and will then provide a useful communication to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u14	Orellana (Mist). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this explanation of vote I do not intend to bore you by repeating the content of the motion, which had and had the ambition also to give an overview of the Italian reality within the European regulatory framework. I shall therefore confine myself to retracing here only the commitments which it proposes to the Government. The first commitment is, I quote, to provide, as soon as possible, adequate clarification of the economic appropriations envisaged and actually available, the modalities and the times of disbursement, in order to provide certainty and thus allow the private individuals concerned to invest in the realization of the digital development of the Country. It is in fact in the financial part that the greatest doubts are concentrated on the sustainability of the plan proposed by the Government and called Italian Strategy for the ultra-wide band. In the slides that illustrate this strategy and presented by the Government we speak of 12 billion euros while in the document on the same topic, presented at the same time, in point 2.5, dedicated to financial coverage, there is Table 3, which I already mentioned this morning, which lists the possible sources of financing, but arriving up to a maximum of 10,049 billion euros, so there would be a part missing and then we will see how it is supposed to get them. The table above shows five possible sources of financing, including the first two being already ongoing funding of EUR 2.419 billion. However, these are ongoing funding and I do not know how correct it is to indicate them in a new plan, because it is money already allocated or perhaps, in some cases, already spent, considering then that the 2 billion are private funds. The other items in this table indicate European funds for which it is necessary to co-finance, in the case of ERDF and EAFRD, by the regions. In explaining the motion this morning I was wondering whether our regions, to which the last law of stability has reduced funding, will be able in the next few years to finance this infrastructure. The Secretary has already replied and I hope that his assurances on the awareness and availability of the regions will be sufficient. Let's just say we're gonna make it work. Finally, in paragraph 2.5 it is hoped to find funds with the ineffable Juncker plan, on which many people are increasingly expressing doubts about its real effectiveness, and on this morning too the Undersecretary implicitly confirmed these doubts not considering these funds as a certain source of funding. I believe, however, that they were part of that missing share, between EUR 10.049 and EUR 12 billion, which could probably also be underestimated. As I have already said, the President of Cassa Depositi e Prestiti has expressed considerable doubts about the machinosity of the procedures. It should also be noted that the tax credit provided for in the Italian release poses the problem that the implementing decree, aimed at the introduction of the tax credit for these operators, has been temporarily rejected by the Ministry of Economy for problems related to the coverage. However, the issue has been postponed. Faced with this scenario, outlined here only broadly, there was a need for clarification of the government and a commitment to guarantee certainties. Certain features needed for private operators to invest and apply that set of models (direct intervention, public-private partnership, incentive intervention, demand aggregation) proposed in the same strategy. Certain things that must necessarily be combined with public governance throughout the process; a streamlined but effective governance of a process that is complex and that will last for years to come, while ensuring that Parliament is constantly updated on its implementation. Finally, a commitment is required from the Government to carry out a process of literacy for citizens, which helps them to understand the real potential of the network, as well as to solve the technical difficulties in accessing the network itself. There is also a need for an increase in the provision of services by public administrations, at all levels, with easy access through a simple and unambiguous way, which does not, for example, force citizens to continue and repeat registrations on the different websites of public administrations. The ultimate objective is for citizens to think of Internet access as the first choice in dialogue with public administration. As I said this morning, it is currently at least in third place and there are no signs of improvement. In conclusion, there is so much to be done to equip ourselves with this strategic infrastructure for the future of Italy and I therefore welcome the fact that the Government has accepted the commitments proposed by us: therefore we will naturally vote in favour of the motion at my first signature. As far as the other motions are concerned - I agree with Mr Lucidi here - it is indeed difficult to declare your vote without knowing whether or not the proposed rewordings will be accepted. I also agree with the need to avoid creating new companies, as foreseen in one of the motions before us, because we have long chosen a different approach to telecommunications, also thanks to the creation of regulatory authorities and directives, such as the Communications Guarantee Authority (AGCOM) and the Competition and Market Authority (AGCM). The state must not create society or intervene artificially in the market, but must govern the process through these authorities. Not knowing whether the proposed rewordings on these issues will be accepted, it is difficult - I repeat - to give indications of vote on the other motions tabled. For my part, I am happy to accept the rewordings proposed in motion 1-00410, at my first signature. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u15	I take this opportunity to greet the representatives of the management of the voluntary association "Valori e libertà" in Cesena, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u18	LANGELLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of broadband and the speculative issue of the digital divide are currently the subject of issues in innovation policies: access to the network for the whole population, the high-speed Internet for institutions, citizens and businesses, the possibility of connecting anywhere and with any digital instrument, are strategic policy objectives at all levels of government. In Europe, the Digital Agenda calls on governments to commit to bringing access to the network to 100% of the population over the next three years, and the ultra-wide band to 50% of the population, with Horizon 2020, as a primary condition for achieving that sustainable, inclusive and knowledge-based development that is at the heart of the Europe 2020 strategy. In recent weeks the discussion on the development of broadband networks in Italy has known two important passages: on the one hand, the Government has published a document, entitled Italian Strategy for the ultra-wide band, which, following the Caio report of February 2014, lays the foundations for a coordinated policy of development of the new telecommunications infrastructures and identifies the figures of public funding that can contribute to this project. On the other hand, the Authority for Communications Guarantees and the Competition and Market Authority published the results of the Joint Knowledge Survey on the same topics. The Government's document sets out the objective, associated with those of the Digital Agenda for Europe, to provide 85% of the Italian population with ultra-wideband access (100 Mbps) and the remaining 30 Mbps access by 2020. Among the many technological options that can ensure these performances, the government plan makes an explicit choice for the solution consisting in the installation of fiber optics up to the users' buildings. Already the Italian Government, with decree-law no. 133 of 2014, called unblock Italy, has given impetus to the achievement of the objectives of the Agenda EU2020 in the matter of ultra-wide band infrastructures and access to the services of the new generation. Among the objectives: to encourage the development of ultra-wideband through the simplification of the regulatory framework, the creation of new development drivers, the use of tax incentives and the reduction of installation costs. In accordance with the European Agenda 2020 and EU policy on the development of the digital economy, as well as with the recent directive adopted on measures to reduce the costs of installing high-speed electronic communications networks, the Decree-Law consists of the following actions in the field of electronic communications: facilitations for the establishment of ultra-wide electronic communications networks; simplification rules for cable excavation and laying procedures as well as for the implementation of electronic communications networks; establishment of the National Infrastructure Federation Information System; provisions for the infrastructure of buildings with high-speed fibre optic electronic communications systems, ready-to-boil broadband. For these reasons, the People's Area Group will strongly support the approval of this motion. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u19	I address the greetings of the Assembly to the teachers and students of the Secondary School of First Degree (Ferrajolo-Capasso) of Acerra, in the province of Naples, who are attending our works from the tribune. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u22	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, as is stated in our motion, it is absolutely legitimate to say that the ultra-wide band and telecommunications infrastructure can all be the subject of an essential level of performance for all citizens, given that a number of civil and social rights, including the right to know, now require sufficient speed of access. That is why, among the commitments in our motion, we recognise the creation of the ultra-wideband network as a priority requirement for the competitiveness of the entire economic system, which requires a careful policy of public investment. We also call for ensuring that the development of the new networks effectively meets the country's connectivity needs and allows the full achievement of digital and social inclusion, through direct engagement in the construction of ultra-wide bandwidth infrastructure and the implementation of a governance model that ensures greater efficiency, security and the absence of any discrimination of users or categories of users. Last February, the European Commission presented the new digital economy and society index, the tool presented to measure the commitment and impact of digital in the society and economy of the Member States of the Union (33 indicators enclosed in five macro-categories: connectivity, digital skills, online activities, integration of digital technologies and digitisation of public services). Specifically, Italy still lags considerably behind and ends up being 25th in the 28 countries of the Union. Italy's worst are only Greece, Bulgaria and Romania. The low Italian score is mainly due to the poor quality of connectivity and diffusion of Internet use. We're always in the relegation zone, and to come out of it, it's not enough to win a couple of games of luck or - forgive me for the term - ass. In fact, the Italian digital agenda has been ranked 25th among 28 countries in the specific EU ranking, based on a special index, which measures the level of digital economy and society, including e-commerce, e-government, cloud usage, but also consumption of movies and online newspapers. This is one of the first reasons why the two new national plans, ultra-wide band and digital growth, must be a unified response to reduce the gap with other Member States and initiate the digital transformation of the country. We all know that on a numerical level, we aim for the extension of the network to buildings but without crossing the entrance door of customers' homes. The financial needs, according to one source, are estimated by the Government in about a billion for the coverage of 100 percent of the citizens, with 30 Mbps, and in 2.7 billion to guarantee to the half of the Italians an ultrafast navigation up to 100 Mbps. The President of the Council said that broadband is the ABC of the economical alphabet, but we wouldn't want broadband and digital growth to translate into the usual task or the usual tweet of ordinance. This is the economic alphabet of today: we are the worst for fast Internet connections (just 21%, while the European average is 62%) and for broadband deployment (only 51% of the territory is covered); only 59 percent of Italians regularly use the Internet, against an EU average of 75%; the beauty of 31 out of 100 Italians has never used the web. Let's move on to e-commerce, where the situation does not improve: Italian small and medium-sized enterprises active in e-commerce are just 5.1 percent of the total, compared to an EU average of 15%. According to the European Union, this reluctance stems from the lack of infrastructure for fast internet connection, the so-called broadband. The final gem, however, is dedicated to the digital public administration, which the Agency for Digital Italy (AGID) and the Government are trying to raise. At present we are fifteenth in terms of public services made available online to citizens, but we become twenty-fiveth when we look at how many citizens actually use these services. As has been noted, apart from the lack of digital skills of Italian and public managers and the lack of broadband coverage, the fact that to date online public services are unusable and often do not even allow the citizen to complete the process or fulfillment remaining behind the computer, requiring it, even if you start using it, to complete it then through the physical channel. Just think, as revealed by the European Commission, that compared to 2013 the percentages of forms and forms that the administration has made available online to citizens have dropped significantly rather than increased. I mean, what exactly are we talking about? We also need to be clear about what's going on. As pointed out in some events about open data and also think tank Vision, normative reductionism is one of the evils of our public administration, able to metabolize and reduce revolutionary ideas, emerging cultures and innovative models to norms, laws and deadlines. The legacy of a bureaucratic and hierarchical vision of public administration, based on fulfillment rather than on project, objectives and results. And so it happens that the terms have just expired from Decree-Law No. 90 of 2014, converted by Law No. 114 of 11 August, which provides for the sanctionability of the Municipalities that to date have not released their own informative heritage. Norma, regulations, deadlines, obviously disregarded. A search for the e-government observatory of the Politecnico di Milano has shown that, to date, only 41 percent of the municipalities are formally in order, while 66 percent are not even planning to do so in the future. In addition, two out of three municipalities that have published data do not comply with the Agency's guidelines for digital Italy on how to publish data. We hope that the era of inaugurations, self-celebrations, announcements and tweets will be over. We cannot continue to consider innovation, be it cultural, organizational or technological as a slogan to be used in due time, as the fig leaf to cover the shame of our inefficiencies, as a permanent reality show. We need a genuine policy of innovation and the modernisation of public administration, a policy that uses technology as a tool to define a new relationship with citizens and businesses. A policy that enables vital energies and transforms isolated excellence into a system. I want to say that the task is known to everyone, but we cannot limit ourselves to that, because it would be insufficient and even useless if at the same time we did not make sense of investment in broadband, which is a necessary but not sufficient tool for digital growth. Just like open data or electronic invoicing or the electronic health file or digital identity, broadband is also an instrument, but without culture, without the final set would not do much good. In the rankings that most matter - those on the use of public services online by users and on the presence of a broadband or ultra-wide infrastructure that allows applications that consume more space to travel - the larger and fragmented a country is from the point of view of institutional levels, the more complex it is, the worse the performance. England, which is a country with a very strong level of concentration, has acknowledged that it has had excessive confidence in planning from the top of its interventions, and the strategy is turning into a process of change involving at all levels citizens who, in part, self-design and self-produce services (social innovation). Azerbaijan, which in two years has built a single platform for all certificates, starts in a second phase to eliminate, in fact, the many certificates (driving licenses, identity cards, passports) that have been made redundant by technology, and managed to do so thanks to a strong leadership. But above all, where there is a prevailing approach to modernisation which, very rarely, requires major reforms and laws. We can no longer be a country blocked by the contemplation of complexity, which oscillates between the ambition of great Cartesian drawings and information systems that do not communicate and cannot exchange information. After all, it doesn't take long. It takes urgency to start bringing home results. The 5 Star Movement Group will abstain on the other motions, while voting in favour of motion 336, tabled by the North League, as reworded. Finally, we invite everyone to approve our motion, which does nothing but say what Renzi has always said, tweeted, and even this time has also written about the 2012 primary program. Therefore, for once, either you vote for it or continue to take citizens by the backs, as you do every day on television. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u23	Senator Castaldi, compared to before I see that, in the end of his speech, he used a synonym that best adheres to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u26	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do not think that the history of our country has ever changed, especially the economic one, at the time when a motion was adopted, and I imagine it will not happen on this occasion either. I have listened carefully to the requests for amendments made by Mr Giacomelli and, as regards points (1), (2), (3), 5) and 6), are accepted, being of common sense. Of course, I take note of the fact that the Undersecretary is opposed to point 4). At this point, it is my duty to report with dismay of a meeting that seems to have been held in the Democratic Party headquarters in the Nazarene and I hope that, if Secretary Giacomelli listens to me, he will be in a position to deny me or to deny what I am saying. During this meeting there was a very detailed reasoning on broadband; indeed, attendance at this meeting at the headquarters of the majority party even seems to be AGCOM, Antitrust, Vodafone, Telecom, Wind. Apparently, not only the Nazarene determines the strategic lines of the Italian Government, but they even deepen on particular problems, and I think it is quite irrational that the Nazarene decides the fate of the Italian broadband. I hope this has not happened, but on this subject it will be interesting to know the opinion or the possible confirmation or denial by the Undersecretary Giacomelli. I say this because in that place - the information is quite accurate - it seems that it has been decided that, every year, each operator will have to communicate in detail its investment plan and, if such investments are not made, there will be sanctions commensurate with the investments not made. The real problem, however, in our country on the ultra-wide band is that of the network company and it is not by chance that on this point the Government has given negative opinion. In fact, when Giacomelli talks about investments of 6 billion, the question is: where do you put these 6 billion? What use will they have? Where do you invest them? What will be the financial, economic and industrial instrument in which this money will be put? To us it has always appeared that the only instrument that could be shared by all the operators of the field, but that also allows the Government to intervene financially on the field, is that society participated from the state and all the existing operators, public and private operators, including, of course, the former incumbent Telecom, and above all the new ones in the field. I do not go so far as to say that private individuals should or should not be majorists in the public-private society that is being set up, but I believe that it is the only possible instrument for these investments to be made. On the one hand, therefore, we have the Democratic Party that decides positively on ultra-broadband but, on the other hand, the Government expresses negative opinion on point 4, that is, the one that foresees the constitution of the society, participated by the State, of the operators for the realization of the broadband, according to the objectives that we all know (the 30 Mbps for all the Italian citizens, all the companies and all the Italian industrial districts and the 100 Mbps for at least 50%, starting, I imagine, from the industrial districts). It is an important attempt and it is the only one possible for our country. It is shown, in fact, that, as long as Telecom will be the almost exclusive owner of the network, even if the Government says that the objectives are those of fiber to the building, FTTB, or of the fiber to the home, FTTH, which are the industrial objectives of proximity so that the Italians can be equipped with the ultra-wide band; until there is the possibility of precise investment in a society that perceives the money from the State in order to make sure that the supply finally meets the demand (and the supply will necessarily be greater than the demand, in a market that must grow, accustomed for years and decades to the telephone dubbing, where nobody has ever felt the need to put the fiber), we consider unlikely and impossible for the Government to invest and for our territory to have a broad band structure at the level of a civil country such as we expect to be. If the Government maintains its opinion against - but it seems to me, from the disinterest of the Undersecretary Giacomelli to the things I am saying, to perceive the permanence of the opposition - I ask for the vote by separate parts, that is, the vote on the whole motion, accepting the rewordings on the other points, and the vote, then, separate of point 4) of the commitments. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u29	Borioli (PD). Mr President, in declaring the Democratic Group's vote in favour of the first-signed motion by Senator Ranucci, I would like to express the hope that, even in the light of the general debate this morning and the openings, indications and corrective and amending proposals made by the representative of the Government in the course of his reply and then in the expression of the opinions on the motions, it will be possible, when the vote is expressed, to achieve the widest possible convergence. And that, at least, must take place on the most significant part of the motions, which - I must say - intercepts, in reality, some substantial points of sharing around the subject matter of the debate. There is sharing with respect to the common awareness, not today, about the delays that the country knows about the infrastructure, the diffusion, the use and the practice of information and communication technologies, especially with regard to the most advanced sectors, such as the ultra-wide band. It is the awareness, from this point of view, of a negative gap, which the Undersecretary himself this morning did not hesitate to define, in some way, in comparison to the other largest and most modern European countries, characterized by some traits even embarrassing. Common awareness also moves from clear photography of how much this negative gap affects in determining the delay that the country is experiencing, even today, in its widespread ability to intercept the first significant dynamics of economic recovery. Therefore, it is evident - as has been said more or less, with different accents and tones, in almost all the interventions - that we know how on this ground we play a decisive game, which has to do with the competitiveness of our country system and the system of enterprises, but not only. I would like to comment on a point which was perhaps not sufficiently mentioned in the debate. I believe that the government has been working on some very significant reforms in the course of its work over the last few months. I am thinking of the reform of the public administration; I am thinking of the reform of the labour market rules; I am thinking of what is being done to combat tax evasion or to make the procurement system more effective, transparent and less permeable to corruption and crime. Compared to all this system of reforms, in the end a significant progress and progression on the ground of the ultra-wide band and the other objectives defined by the Italian digital agenda constitute the platform without which even those reforms risk to be weakened in their concrete effects. Moving from this, which seems to me a common consideration and sharing, the Undersecretary Giacomelli, this morning, has made commitments that I consider important and relevant. He reminded us that the strategic plan for the ultra-wide band contains, for the first time, the important effort to try to coordinate and put into common factor all the initiatives developed over the years at regional level, with the risk that that disarticulation also meant - as in part meant - dispersion of resources and inability to affect the main objective at the end. Undersecretary Giacomelli has clearly identified the strategic function of the National Plan and I believe - I say this without polemicizing, with reference to what Senator Romani said just now - that he defined, with a clarity that I share, what is the field that is responsible in this sense for the action of the Government and Parliament in the planning and definition of strategic objectives and what is the field that must be left to the market and private operators, entrusting to the public the task of defining certain rules for which the market can open up to transparent and effective competition, which in some way also called Senator Sonego in his speech this morning. In sharing the facility, as well as the motion, also the reply that the Government has made in this House, undertaking to update us about the steps of progress and progression in the realization of broadband infrastructure and not only that, I would like to emphasize, at the end of this speech in explanation of vote, some points that I consider particularly qualifying of the motion submitted at the first signature of Senator Ranucci. Firstly - as some have already said - there is the priority reference to the system of industrial districts. I say this because the industrial districts and the local production systems are a peculiar feature of our production system. Sometimes they are geographically and territorially allocated not directly and only within those large metropolitan agglomerations, where infrastructure is easier to arrive at by pure and direct initiative of private capital, which has expectations of interesting remuneration there. Very often the local production and industrial districts are allocated in areas that need to see a accompanied intervention, mixed between the private capital and the support of the public initiative through the various instruments that the Government has put in place during its period of activity. I think this is a fundamental aspect, because very often on the front of the Expo, of the innovation and of the quality of the product in the industrial districts and in the local production systems are allocated the excellences that, today, are able to intercept the dynamics of resumption and to act as a tow to the whole rest of the productive system. Finally, I want to highlight an aspect that may seem a little eccentric compared to the architrave of the goal around which we have all reasoned about the spread of the ultra-wide band, which is obviously - and I share it - the revival of the economy and the recovery of competitiveness of our country. I want to focus on a point that Senator Ranucci's motion identifies and that I try to develop in the following way. In addition to this fundamental cornerstone of reasoning, it seems to me that today, due to the peculiarities peculiar to our territory, made of many marginal and isolated areas or at risk of isolation, a function is better suited in particular to clusters C and D, which are defined essentially inaccessible to market logics and relate to a theme that - in my opinion - has to do with, as well as with competitiveness - excuse me if I define it like this, perhaps with a force of meaning - with the quality of citizenship. I believe that today the difficulty for large parts of the population, for entire local communities located in peripheral areas (I am thinking of mountain areas and island areas and high hills), can no longer simply be classified under the category of disadvantage. In my opinion, with the action that the National Plan envisages and that the motion recalls, we must work to ensure that the disadvantage does not become exclusion. In this sense, the possibility of access, for all citizens and for all communities, to the services that the infrastructure and operation of the most modern technologies in the field of information and communication can make available to citizens is a way to meet the need not only for economic development and employment, this morning recalled by my colleague Parente, but also for the inclusion of our local communities which, in the globalized society of telematics and computer science, is a constituent element of the same citizenship. Also for this reason, which is an element that I emphasize to the attention of the Government and that seems to me not less important than everything that has been discussed during the morning, I announce with conviction the favorable vote of the Group of the Democratic Party to the motion of Senator Ranucci and the adherence to the considerations carried out this morning by the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u32	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u33	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 76 (text 2), tabled by Senator Ranucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group]] Senator Crosio, on motion 336 (text 2) a favourable opinion was expressed on points 2, 3, 4, 5 and 12. On the other hand, a favourable opinion was delivered with a request for rewording on points 7, 8, 10, 11 and 13 and an opinion against points 1), 6 and 9). Firstly, I would like to ask you whether you accept the reformulations proposed by the Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u34	Mr President, I have a proposal to make to the Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u35	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u36	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Then I'll try to be brief. We welcome the rewordings but, precisely in order to get a favourable opinion from the Government as a whole, I would like to propose to him the deletion for the points on which it was given the opposite opinion. And that's possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is So you would like to take out points 1), 6) and 9) and accept, on the other hand, the rewording of the other points, so as to have a favourable opinion. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, the reformulations are acceptable, except for point 7), for which I thank the Undersecretary but I do not accept. In point 7, there is talk of local television, but in the awareness of the issue, namely the motion on broadband, that perhaps this point was too much pressure, I delete it so that I can have a completely favourable opinion on our motion. The other proposals for reformulation, which are minimal from our point of view, are fine. Therefore, I believe that the Government should also have a favourable opinion on the whole of our motion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Mr. Undersecretary, I invite you to comment on Senator Crosio's proposal. In summary, the senator proposes an exchange. He shall withdraw points 1, 6 and 9 if he accepts point 7 in his original wording.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u37	Mr President, if I may, I believe I have understood that Senator Crosio would be willing to accept the Government's proposal for reformulation if he accepted the wording from the motion of points 1), 6, 9 and 7 in order to obtain a favourable opinion on the rest of the text. It is a proposal on which I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u38	Senator Crosio, you mentioned point 7). Is this point also raised?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u39	Yes, Mr. President. The Undersecretary had reworded point 7, and I explained to him the reasons for my opposition to it: we are talking about the Italian digital agenda. We open, yes, a credit line to the Undersecretary (and not to the Government), but not to this point. So in order to strike a balance on the motion, I am prepared to withdraw point 7). We will talk about this in a forthcoming motion or, in any case, in the commitments that the Government has made to report regularly to the Commission or to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u40	Therefore, you set out points (1), 6), 7) and 9). It welcomes the rewording of points 8, 10, 11 and 13). The opinion was favourable on points 2, 3, 4, 5 and 12. The motion, thus reworded, has the government's favorable opinion. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 336 (text 3), tabled by Senator Crosio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to motion 366 (text 2), first signed by Senator Cioffi, to which if he accepts the proposals for the rewording of points 1), 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7. I would remind you that the opinion is opposed to point 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u41	Mr President, with regard to the rewording proposed by the Government in points 1 and 2, we ask him whether it is possible to add, at the end of the rewording, the part of point 2, which begins with a direct commitment to the construction of the infrastructure until the end of the period. As regards the rewording of point 4, we welcome it. With regard to the rewording of point 5), we welcome it although, as usual, it would take a little more strength and courage. As regards the rewording of point 6, we welcome it. As regards the rewording of point 7, we welcome it. We then have a proposal, but first we want to hear what the Government has to say about the proposal relating to points 1) and 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u42	Colleagues, I want to remind you that the government is proposing reformulations. This is an exchange of requests.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u43	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, this is a request we make to the Government, which may or may not be magnanimous. On the other hand, as Mr Castaldi has already said, we are asking the Government only to implement the program of the President of the Council Renzi in the primaries of 2012. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us ask the Undersecretary what he thinks about this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u44	Mr President, I understand that the model of intercourse is a little advanced but, with a view to seeking maximum harmony, I wish there were no misunderstandings. If the Government is asked to add to the reformulation already advanced the expression "even through the form of the direct realization of the infrastructure" on this expression specifies nothing question. As Senator Romani might say, it is one of the forms already envisaged. Infratel, which is the company in house of the Ministry, when there are no operators available, realizes in direct form in the areas to market failure. If this is a way to recall the fact that there is a construction of a society promoted or participated or to recall, in some way, the Government to a dirigismo, the availability is not there. I respond to the President's request: the wording I proposed and read this morning I have no difficulty in adding the words: "even through commitment to the direct construction of the infrastructure". PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cioffi, do you agree?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u45	Mr President, as usual, we always do these things and never really take a position. Let us try to accept the rewording in a text 3, but let us ask for a separate vote on what was in point 3 above, because it is very important to us.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u46	The Presidency agrees. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of motion No 366 (text 3), tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators, including the premise and points 1), 3), 4, 5 and 6 of the operative part. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the remainder of motion 366 (text 3), tabled by Senator Cioffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u49	DI MAY (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). I would just like to point out that I was unable to vote in time at the previous vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u50	Your statement shall remain in the minutes. Let's move on to motion 410. Senator Orellana has already stated that he accepts requests for reformulation. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 410 (text 2), tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Romani, I understand that you accept the requests for rewording of motion 411 relating to points 2 and 5, and you have a favourable opinion on points 1, 3) and 6), which we will vote together. We shall then vote on point 4). [[Notes of assent by Senator Romani Paolo]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of motion 411 (text 2), tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators, including the premise and points 1), 2, 3, 5 and 6 of the operative part. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the remainder of motion 411 (text 2), tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u51	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1328. The rapporteur, Senator Formigoni, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call on the rapporteur to speak as soon as the Chamber is released. The House is unusually quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are considering today is of great importance to the agricultural and agri-food sectors. These are a number of different, wide-ranging measures aimed at making a decisive impact, from a structural and qualitative point of view, on the nerve profiles of the agricultural and agri-food sectors. I would like to remind you that, since its presentation, the measure has been given a competitive boost to a crucial sector, also in view of the development of Expo, which began, as we know, a few days ago. For all these reasons, this measure has been assigned the nature of linked to the financial maneuver. [[Brusio.]] If the House pays any attention...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u53	Colleagues, please, before I said that the House is unusually quiet, but I must withdraw everything, because we have returned to customs and customs. Anyone who does not want to stay in this Chamber should do the courtesy of leaving and allowing President Formigoni to carry out his report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u54	Formigoni, rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President, you have preceded me. I was asking not as much attention as I was asking for inattention. And his words translated my request. I said that I would like to examine the overall content of the draft law under consideration, which - as I mentioned - involve crucial aspects of the primary sector, so as to create a real new conception of the sector, more suited to the needs and expectations of the business world, in order to determine a real change of pace. Firstly, I would like to point out that the process of relaunching agriculture started with the choices contained in the measure also intervenes, but not only, on issues already felt and present in various legislative proposals. These, however, were scattered in order with respect to the overall maneuvering in the agricultural and agri-food fields carried out by this measure. Some of the topics we are talking about have been an integral part of the overall project of interventions provided for by the draft law since the original text, going to affect profiles such as simplification in agriculture, attention for youth enterprises and for logistic and technological innovation, organic agriculture and the need to strengthen the protection of the quality of national productions, support to the short chain, the need for a work of reorganization and rationalization of the entities under the supervision of the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, the management of the risk in agriculture and the intervention on individual productive sectors of particular importance. In the course of the examination in the Commission, the measure was enriched with additional issues of great importance for the primary sector, while the subjects present in the original project were the subject of in-depth study and reflection, which led to an assessment of closer adherence to the demands of the agricultural and agri-food world, in relation to the needs felt by the economic and institutional actors of the same. All this has been possible thanks to the active participation and the active commitment made by all the political forces present in the Commission, which have contributed to the improvement and the better drafting of the text, through considerations and initiatives that have positively directed the legislative activity to take account of the aforementioned instances, in a work of continuous and prolific confrontation with the Government, to which my appreciation goes for the constant presence and willingness to perfect during the work. I think it is also worth pointing out that the definition of the article in the Commission's examination has been affected by the recent development of legislation, which has led to the deletion of provisions which were certainly of great importance, but which in the meantime have become part of the existing legislation. Turning to a more detailed explanation of the content of this article, first of all I think it appropriate, following the order of the provisions, to draw attention to the importance attached to the simplification covered by Articles 1, 4 and 5. Article 1 has strengthened simplifications in certain policy areas, such as olive oil, pasteurisation and the beef and veal sector, while Article 4 reduces deadlines for administrative procedures, with particular reference to the application of forms of simplification resulting from regional regulations. However, the central point on simplification is contained in Article 5, which gives a broad delegation for the reordering of the relevant legislation to the Government, aimed at the creation of a real agricultural code that collects all the current rules for homogeneous sectors with regard to agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture. The delegation shall be accompanied by precise guiding criteria, including, in point (g), the rationalisation of the quality of products, quality production and against agri-food fraud, and certain specific criteria relating to the fisheries and aquaculture sectors have been introduced. The need to protect agri-food safety has led to the approval of Article 2, which, in order to ensure a greater guarantee of agri-food safety, also includes provisions of a criminal nature. Article 3 lays down provisions on servitude, with reference to the passage of pipes for connection to the gas network and for the transmission of geothermal energy. Article 6 deals with youth farming, finalising a process of generational replacement through partnerships between older and young farmers, which favours the gradual transition to the latter of the management of the agricultural undertaking, on the basis of precise criteria covering, inter alia, the allocation of tax concessions and reliefs, the way in which the relationship is concluded, the forms of sharing of profits. Article 7 contains rules to support organic agriculture and aquaculture, including the creation of a dedicated information system and a public list of operators at the competent Ministry. A topic of great importance has been identified in the overall reorganization of the agencies supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and Forestry, through a work of reorganization and reduction of the same through delegation to the Government, which also includes technical assistance to the breeders and the discipline of animal reproduction. The guiding criteria for the delegation in question, contained in Article 9, are basically to be traced back to the need for rationalization and containment of public expenditure and for greater effectiveness to the action taken by the Ministry's instrumental bodies in support of agriculture, with some modifications by the Commission which, in confirming this delegation, has accentuated some of its characteristics in the direction of transparency and efficiency of bodies and agencies, with attention also to financial profiles and market support. The Commission has introduced in subsequent articles some provisions that recall important aspects, with particular reference to the demand and supply of land and farms through the creation of a special Bank of Agricultural Lands, to the modernization of logistics, to the joint recruitment of workers, to financial interventions for the companies in the field, widening the possibilities of intervention of the company ISA also on fishing and aquaculture, in order to favor the investments. Article 15 delegates to the Government for the reordering of risk management tools in agriculture and for market regulation, with particular attention to the discipline of mutual funds. Article 16 aims to support and develop short-chain agricultural and fishery products, with reference to organic farming and social fishing. Title IV is dedicated to some sectors of considerable importance in the Italian agricultural landscape. In particular, it regulates the tomato sector, the rules on labelling and packaging, the penalty profiles, the rice sector. I would like to point out that the Commission has added the fisheries sector, which is also present in previous provisions of the draft law, to these sectors, as already provided for in the original text, given the importance it attaches to the fisheries sector in the overall context of the primary sector. A special Chapter III has therefore been inserted, with Articles 26 to 29, dealing with certain aspects relating to fishery products, the establishment of the one-stop shop for fisheries and aquaculture, with functions of guidance and support to regional branches, and a series of amendments to the current single text on this subject, aimed at affecting administrative sanctions and illegal profiles, with a particular emphasis on the legislation concerning a system of points for serious infringements. Finally, Article 30, also introduced by the Commission, lays down a series of provisions concerning agricultural work, aimed at strengthening the operation of the quality agricultural work network, through targeted inclusions in the current legislation. Mr President, in concluding my report, I would like once again to thank all my colleagues in the Commission and the Government in the belief that we have all done a very good job together, which I am convinced will bring oxygen to this important sector and to all its operators. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u55	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruvolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u56	Mr President, listening to President Formigoni, I would like to say that we have finally found an adequate response to the agricultural sector. Unfortunately, that is not the case. I would like to point out, Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, that it was July 2013 when the Commission on the merits, the Agriculture Commission, began the discussion of the draft law, at the first signature of my colleague Mr Pignedoli, who had as its object the reordering of the system of bodies supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policies. On that occasion we did a good job, listened to everything and more and began discussions. I must also remember that the then majority - I am talking about the Letta Government - had several meetings at the Ministry of Agricultural Policy with the then Minister Nunzia De Girolamo, with whom that majority was confronted on issues concerning the supervised bodies, but aimed above all to characterize the work in order to create prospects and well-being in the world of agriculture. Sub-committees were even set up to streamline the work and reach its definition. Unfortunately, in December 2013 someone said: "Stop, nothing is done". All the work done by the Commission on merit and the sub-committees - at the time I was rapporteur for the measure - ended this way. We didn't understand the reason, but it was decided not to do anything with it anymore. In January 2014 the bill n. 1328, moreover, is announced also with an unusual procedure, being a bill of government initiative in which there was everything and more. Well, the President-in-Office of the Council of the time, Enrico Letta, stated exactly in this regard that the adoption of the measure would result in a greater boost of competitiveness in a crucial sector, with a view to Expo 2015. I would remind my fellow Members, in an ironic way too, that the Universal Exposition was inaugurated on 1 May, but we did not see any results with regard to these statements: in the meantime, in March 2014, the process of the measure in the Commission of merit has finally begun, with so many hearings and so many speeches, but in the end everything has stopped. Even at that stage the reason was not understood and why the government has put under its feet the agricultural sector that should instead have been in the first place of its programme. More than a year has passed and nothing has been known. Then everything woke up, because in the committees of merit there are those who do their work, pushing and stimulating the government: so, finally, we arrived this evening to listen to President Formigoni's report to the Assembly. In the meantime, however, an unusual fact has happened: parts of this bill - of which I will quote the articles - have meanwhile been included in other measures: the issue of agriculture has therefore been included in measures dealing with the environment or industry, irrationally and confusedly, which leads nowhere. The content of many provisions of the original text of the Government - namely Article 1, simplifying controls, Article 4, laying down provisions on agricultural contracts, Article 8, concerning measures for the development of Made in Italy abroad, provisions on marks or identifiers, network contracts and measures to support agricultural enterprises carried out by young people - has been included in measures which have nothing to do with the future, the outlook and the future of the world of agriculture. It is therefore a completely distorted measure. I would like to turn to the most important points of the measure, Mr Vice-Minister and Mr President, by failing to deal with all the articles and by beginning to talk about Article 5, entitled "Delegate to the Government for the reorganization and simplification of the legislation on agriculture and fisheries". Well, the title is perfect, but what are the consecutive acts? How do we reorder, how do we imagine a successful model of agriculture, at least in Europe - I do not say in the world - if there is no idea of a model of agriculture? In the meantime it has happened that you have approved an ignoble tax like the agricultural IMU, going to tax an instrumental asset [[Applause from Senator Gaetti]] You have not taken any action on the costs of agricultural pensions, which are the highest in Europe, as we have said so many times in this House and in the Commission on the subject, but there has been only silence. Fertilizers have increased by 200 percent and we do not even know how much fuel has increased: perhaps a thousand per thousand, if that is the case. What is your idea of the relationship between large retailers and producers? To make the producers choke, to really shake their hands around their necks? Are you ready to collapse farms to make profits? As far as the fight against counterfeiting is concerned, you have made so many announcements, but no concreteness. You imagined even the Forest Corps of the State unified to the various police forces; but the controls in the environmental-agricultural sector who does them? That's the question mark. It is true that I have voted in favour of Article 1 on the simplification of procedures. But there is no next provision; what has been done? What model of agriculture did you imagine? Only and exclusively confusion. I am going to go to the node: Article 7 - 9 of the Commission's text - on the reordering of bodies supervised by the Ministry of Agricultural Policies. We were in times of spending review (perhaps someone forgot this extraordinary word); we had to reset all the boards of directors (we stand); merge the bodies with each other (very well); reduce the expenses (extraordinaryly fantastic). But what have you done in the meantime? We have told you this in all languages both in the Commission and in this House. All you did was get the AGEA commissary. What is inside the AGEA system (for those who do not follow this matter)? A series of Chinese boxes: SIN, Agecontrol, "Age Qua," "Age There." The truth is that nothing has been done in the meantime. This Article 7 only served you to appoint some commissioners and leave everything unchanged. I want to talk about the combination of INEA and the suppression of ISA: that's fine, but what were the consequent acts? Tell us at least something positive about the understanding; we do not know anything because INEA is doing its job and ISA - it is done to say - is doing its own: 290 projects examined, maybe twenty those approved in five years; all has cost the wrath of God to the Italians. But do we really still want to make fun of these issues? And what about the CRA, the Agricultural Research and Experimentation Council, which should merge with INEA? Are these plans on the moon? If there is an infectious plant disease, as is currently happening in Puglia, where is the CRA? How much does this CRA cost us? Then we have to rely on external advice, on those who study at universities. Let's get this over with. Close everything: save the Italians and give oxygen to agriculture. I am not at all to eliminate everything, but I am convinced that this can no longer go on. So, I'm not talking about spending reviews anymore; you have to save and finalize the savings, also because you predicted it: the savings had to generate possibilities for interventions in the agricultural sector. But of this nothing, and nothing is expected. Gentlemen of the Government and the majority, if you could give us a perspective today, a model of agriculture, we would be here to support it, with conviction and force. But unfortunately, that is not the case. Article 11 of the Government's own-initiative text also contains provisions to facilitate participation in European aid programmes. An article of a few lines basically to put the public administration in a position to explain to the agricultural operators how to access the funds. That's all the norm. Please read it and read it again: there is nothing. The Rural Development Plan (RDP), for those who do not understand this matter, is the only financial instrument available to agriculture, there is no more money than that. Was it not appropriate to really attack this argument in a positive way so that companies could take off and then use the funds? None of this. We come to another very sensitive issue dealt with in Article 12 of the Government's text: the fund to protect farmers' incomes. Basically, it is a question of being able to compensate for damage caused by disasters. The most recent data in my possession, which certainly the Government knows, refers to 2014: the damage found in that year amounts to 2 billion, the compensation paid to 18 million, therefore substantially 1,982 billion have not been compensated. Never give hope and oxygen back to Italian agriculture! Absolutely! (18.01) (Ruvolo followed). As regards post- and ante-insurance policies, the farmer who has to take out an insurance policy with a company will never do it; there will be very few farmers who will have the opportunity, because the cost of securing a hectare of cultivation is exorbitant and no farmer, no agricultural undertaking can, even if it wants to, take out an insurance policy. So, when there is a calamity, who compensates the farmer? The State and the Regions have this data and the insurance cannot be concluded. But is it possible that we cannot spend money on this issue and understand what is the real possibility of compensation? It's just announcements. Of course, I know very well, Mr Vice-Minister, that there are delegations within this measure, but tell us clearly what you want to do about these matters, because if we have to talk about it again in two years' time, everything is over and mine is not an alarmist way of saying things. We are talking about IMU, social security costs, fuel, fertilizers, and yet there is no answer about disaster either. Finally, Article 18 deals with the rules on labelling and packaging. You have not been able to write something very simple at European level: labelling is compulsory. In addition, labelling is compulsory for the entrepreneur, but if he has a real chance of being sanctioned, none of this is foreseen. What are we talking about then? I'm gonna stop at this, so I don't get too long. Mr. Deputy Minister, we have had so many opportunities for confrontation, always in a very positive way, without ever exploiting anything. For what little remains to be hoped for with you, we have drawn up amendments which we believe are appropriate and consistent with the specific subject, without sailing in the dark. They are very timely and, I dare say, responsible amendments, because we really want to help the world of agriculture. We hope that in the next few hours a positive spirit will be born in you, because it is useless to always start beating our chests. Therefore, as I say so many times, give agriculture an opportunity. In words we all love agriculture as the founding pillar of the Italian economy, but in fact? The truth is that still, between agricultural IMU and everything that agriculture is loaded with, that bears the cross on itself, if there is no concrete possibility of ransom - and this is a good opportunity - that world will no longer see the light. I am confident that in the end you will be able to give at least some hope and a minimum of response. We will see each other in the examination of the amendments. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF), FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u57	I greet the students and the teachers of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education (Don Tonino Bello) in Tricase, in the province of Lecce, who are today visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u58	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we consider the related agriculture one of the fundamental stages of a programme and a path that this Government, together with Parliament, is making in a determined and determined way for the growth of the competitive capacity of the Italian agri-food system. It is what our country needs, which has a high agricultural vocation, but an entrepreneurial vocation too low in this sector. In the contingency we are experiencing, made of debt and low growth, we cannot linger in the logic of insufficient efficiency, of sun protection and protection of the agricultural sector, but we must direct every resource, every instrument, towards the factors of competitiveness. We must courageously divert unproductive resources and costs and transfer them to competitiveness projects, redesign tools above all to intervene on a higher quality management of the enterprises and a greater rationalization of the logistics. Resources are needed to intervene on the increase in the value of the product. More naturalness certified, more nutritional qualities, more distinctiveness, more service content together with the product: what segments of a market in great evolution require more and more. As we know, the possibility of being competitive in a productive sector depends on several factors and perhaps in the agri-food sector depends, even more, on some fundamental points: for example, on an efficient bureaucratic system, sensible, understandable, with certain times, with responsibilities identified in the management - or poor management - of public procedures. The level of competitiveness depends on a clear and readable legislative and regulatory system. There are thousands of rules in the agricultural sector that have stratified over the years: laws of a European, national, regional character, which sometimes have elements of contradiction that require waste of time for authentic and definitive interpretations. The growth of competitive capacity depends on a structured system of incentives to constantly increase the innovative capacity of companies, their ability to compete in a market that has become mandatory the world, in which competitors from other countries even outside Europe are running and have extraordinary performances, leading to increasingly challenging levels of challenge. We are therefore talking about an organic and structured system to increase competitiveness, which has as its primary objective the attention to young entrepreneurs and as an essential prerequisite the ethical value of enterprise and work. Regular employment and the dignity of workers as an indispensable factor: the quality network of agricultural work, which we have worked here in the Senate to strengthen its effectiveness, has precisely this objective. However, the competitive capacity also includes the possibility for companies to withstand the risks of an extraordinary enterprise. For open-air farms such as farms, to face extraordinary risks means to manage unpredictable risks, those that cannot be ruled by the individual entrepreneur. I am thinking, for example, of climate emergencies: only in 2014 there are dozens of devastating climatic emergencies for agriculture, events completely new, unknown, unexpected that have generated hundreds of millions of damage in agriculture. Equally extraordinary may be market crises dependent on dynamics or speculation on agricultural commodities, on supranational food raw materials, with effects on prices at origin not governable by the individual. The measure delegates the Government for this reason to go to a revision and an adaptation of the insurance instruments in order to face new phenomena of this time, that have profoundly changed the climate and the role of finance, strongly invasive and conditioning of the real economy. And more: the competitive capacity of Italian agri-food, characterized by health and distinctiveness, together with the right of citizens to be put in conditions to know and be aware of what they eat means for every civil country to raise the level of protection of productions, the guarantee of their authenticity. In this logic, in the draft law under consideration, it is expected to tighten the penalties for those who intervene illicitly on the components of food and production processes. All this deals with what has commonly become the related agriculture. On the first point, concerning efficient bureaucracy, there are some provisions which reinforce the concept of the adequacy of a standard in relation to the size of the company to which it applies. disproportionate rules often kill the possibility of small businesses, impose unsustainable costs and investments and become bureaucratic monsters out of reality, without adding real effectiveness. In this measure we intervene with the elimination of some of these paradoxes. But efficient bureaucracy also means efficient tools. We are talking about those bodies supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture, on which we have produced, as PD, our legislative proposals that provide for a limited and selective number of instruments characterized by high levels of specialisation and governance, which have the ability to address, control, that do not allow duplication and overlapping of activities, transparent in their actions. In the delegation to the Government it is therefore proposed a reorganization of the agencies, starting from the area of management of the European resources strongly revisited. Too many errors, too many penalties from Europe (as highlighted by the Court of Auditors in May 2013) and management behaviour of non-compliant paying agencies have resulted in a loss of resources for Italy for €456 million between 2009 and 2012. A radical revision of the functions and modalities of AGEA and its regional paying agencies is therefore needed, bringing maximum transparency to every step, introducing a uniformity of practices and procedures between regional and central systems, computer systems that increasingly put in direct contact user and public administration Already the action of the Ministry of Agriculture, with the "Agriculture 2.0" plan, anticipates this objective, introducing through an advanced computer system a facilitation of the questions. It is not true that nothing has been done, as Mr Ruvolo said. With the precompiled PAC application, a single farm registry, three requirements that farmers had to fill separately simplify and synthesize in a single business file, as well as in a single database of certificates. This is already the case. We are moving towards the concrete realization of the charter of the farmer and the fisherman, already planned for years, never realized concretely, that will allow to start procedures through a computer system and automations that reduce the errors, do not foresee useless and often expensive mediations or discretionary interventions that have often proved to be harmful. In the area of management of CAP resources, a control system should also be provided to ensure the necessary independence from the provider, therefore an independent entity, which is a third party in the inspection and control activity, which is above the parties. The second major reordering area concerns the agricultural research system, which is now too fragmented, with vast areas of overlap and duplication of activities. A largely self-referential system. We have asked, in the definition of delegation, that we work on a system that keeps specialization and territoriality together, that it eliminates duplication, that it knows how to identify instruments of measurement of the level of activity and its reflections on the productive system. Now, with the appointment of the Commissioner, this review is already under way and we will be entering into our Commission next week. In addition, we had proposed an area of financial systems for truth concentrated in a single instrument. We are not prejudiced to maintain two parties, provided that a precise reorganization and definition of the functions of ISMEA and ISA is envisaged, aimed at achieving prompt intervention, maximum transparency of criteria, economic, financial and capital data; that a system is set up here to measure the effectiveness of interventions. We have called for an extension of ISA's scope for intervention in fisheries companies. The second point I mentioned at the beginning of the intervention on which, as I said, the level of competitiveness depends is a clear and readable legislative and regulatory system. The draft law before us proposes structural action to simplify the rules, an agricultural code that brings together all the rules envisaged, corrects inconsistencies, eliminates duplication, repeals obsolete provisions or sources of ambiguity, provides for a genuine revision of administrative and control measures. In order to avoid a summary intervention with media intent, it is proposed the double opinion of the competent parliamentary committees on the draft decrees. If it affects the factors of competitiveness then it means to intervene on management quality, productivity, integration and inefficiency, in the measure there are several measures that go in this direction, such as the establishment of the farm land bank, the rationalization of the network of logistic poles for export, the facilitations for participation in European programmes, an infrastructure for organic, an organic package of measures dedicated to fisheries and aquaculture. Here, I believe that more than ever in this 2015 for our agriculture we open a completely new page. To address a market so full of contradictions and imbalances, we need to redefine not only the factors of global competitiveness, but the very concept of competition. We need a policy that courageously encourages efficiency-ethics; we need the priorities of entrepreneurs and consumers to converge more and more. Selective incentives are needed for what has multiple benefits: what is good for health is also good for the economy and the environment. This is why we need targeted policies, strategic factors and not waste of rain resources; therefore, reward and dynamism and non welfare. Above all, we need business systems and not the pulverization of companies. Today the measure under consideration can make an important contribution in this regard; it adds a piece in this process that lets us out of the ordinary maintenance of the existing one. We are inside a watershed, an extraordinary passage: from an old man destined for the waiting and marginalization of agriculture and rural territories to a new projected to an active protagonism of young people and a greater awareness of the value of food in all its aspects. We must feel, in every corner of this country and in every activity that we do, within the huge challenge of the coming decades, that precisely to give centrality to the agricultural sector, to make it an advanced point of a new and modern economy; within a goal, a common challenge, that precisely to nourish in a fairer and more just way the Planet. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Formigoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u59	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u60	Colleagues, once, when dealing with issues relating to agriculture, in these classrooms it flew high, also because agriculture was one of the most decisive sources of income for all of us Italians. We are, good or bad, bearers of an important agricultural tradition. So much so that very often in an ironic way, in many formulas and in many dialectal forms, many wanted a possible return to agriculture, once we finished an organized work in the city, which had in fact removed us from the bucolic world from which we all come, being our country yes of cities, but above all of countries and villages. But this is the government of missed occasions, the government of attempts, of the "vorrei," but I can not; it is the government of the drafts of law that - as it has been remembered - land in the Commission in the summer of 2013, and then get stuck, no matter how much they do not address issues related to the sea, because in theory they should face agricultural issues, even if then, laughing and joking, even of fishing in this connected one must be dealt with. But let's go with order. I would start with the title and read it all to you, inviting you to be careful, so that I know the grammar of the Italian language is still in force (maybe, after the Constitution, you will also drown the grammar). Well, you write: Provisions on the simplification, rationalization and agricultural competitiveness of the agricultural, agri-food and fisheries sectors Now, on the understanding that the adjectives must be related to the nouns that precede them, I have to explain to myself what agricultural competitiveness in the field of fisheries is, because frankly I thought that in the field of fisheries we might use rules relating to the fish world, but not to the agricultural world. However, perhaps it is simply my mistake, that perhaps the Minister or someone else will be able to clarify to me. The point is that this title reflects the usual problem of the legislative procedure. This measure was born as related to the 2013 budget and had to deal exclusively with agricultural problems. Then, however, the will to block the whole came in haste and fury, because in 2014 was presented, if I remember correctly in August, a decree-law (converted, among other things, with the use of confidence) on competitiveness. This decree also contained rules concerning the fisheries sector. Well, why did we have to correct the title? Because in this piece of legislation, which has been added in relation to the original text, if I recall correctly, 13 articles (so from 16 we have changed to 29), there are 6 articles that regulate the aquaculture and fisheries sector in order to correct measures that clearly the competitiveness decree had created badly. Rather than be quick, rather than rushing to let the world know that something has been done, why does the government not decide to do something, but to do it well? Although it may be necessary to spend more time in the Commission. Because I believe that, in the end, to the fury of having to correct what was done quickly and badly, Matteo Renzi, rather than passing to history as Carl Lewis, nicknamed "the son of the wind," will pass to history as the novell Quinto Fabio Massimo called "cunctator," that is, the timer. But we know that the timer was then sent home because Hannibal came to the gates. Now, this measure, apart from being born badly, has also continued, as usual, worse, because never and never a Parliament that is in the full of its rational powers grants delegations to the Government on such important issues. Article 5 gives the following: "Delegate to the Government for the reordering and simplification of the legislation on agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture." But if we delineate for reordering and simplification in all these fields, then the measure if it is simply a delegation of what it deals with, what does it consist of? Article 9 reads as follows: "Delegates to the Government for the reorganization, suppression and reduction of the agencies, companies and agencies supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policies and for the reorganization of technical assistance to farmers and the revision of the discipline of animal reproduction". Sorry, but that was the title. It would have been easier to write: "Government, do it yourself." Article 15, perhaps in the matter of delegation, is the most juicy, because it even confers to the Government delegation for the reordering of risk management tools in agriculture and regulating markets, so we enter the field of the insurance market, in an economic-financial field. What are we gonna do? We, Parliament, ask the Government to do what the Government itself seems and likes, as if the Government were not, in the person of the President of the Council, chatted also for so many friendships that it has in the field of finance and credit. I remember a name on everyone, Davide Serra, who, I seem to have read, became Commendatore of the Italian Republic. Then, though, I have to ask myself. We are also a country with a Mediterranean and maritime vocation, so why can we not make legislative intervention alone and only in the fisheries sector? It is the fishermen's associations and committees that have been asking for this for a longer time: why should we always confuse the waters and, if you like, the ideas? Simple, because you're confused. I don't want to tease you yet. I am convinced that, culturally, this provision was born badly, because to you they say nothing concepts such as permaculture, such as biodynamic or synergistic agriculture, as resilience. You are interested, rather, Expo, because in this way you get capitalistally organized profits. Senator Pignedoli used to talk about a business system. But "system" means that there is a plurality; I would like to talk about the network of enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, which have always been the backbone of an Italy, peasant yes, but also honest. You, who are perhaps at the antipodes of this world, prefer to impose the agricultural IMU, because perhaps in this way you find the money you needed to pay the debts that the government had contracted to find the famous 80 euros. In conclusion, I first mentioned Cincinnato, because it was once said that you could end your life as a worker, as a banker, as a railwayman, going to be a Cincinnato. Then I invite you to follow the example of a former colleague of yours, Massimo D'Alema, who has retired and devoted himself to wine growing. I know your wine is really appreciated, and it's bought by cooperatives. Maybe, we can also think of getting D'Alema to suggest the most ordered norms (and I am convinced of that). I do not want to define more detailed rules, but more orderly ones, because in this measure there is everything, but also the opposite of everything. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u61	Senator Gatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u62	Madam President, the exhaustive report by President Formigoni, but above all the intervention, which I very much share, by Senator Pignedoli, allows me to speak very quickly on one point. This is Article 30 of the measure, which concerns the completion of the quality agricultural work network. This is to complete a process initiated by Decree-Law No 91 of 2014, in which the correctness and regularity of agricultural enterprises were valued. It is completed in the sense that, with this measure, we give the tools to begin to operate a shared control for a definite and strong contrast to black work and irregular work in agriculture. As a modality, we have decided to put in synergy data, experience and information, putting together bodies and structures of different ministries. In this regard, I would like to thank the legislative offices of both the MIPAAF and the Ministry of Labour, which have played a major role in drafting the amendments and have done valuable work, which has enabled the network of quality agricultural work, which already had the national point in function, to enrich the intervention and to finally begin to assume a territorial intervention where the contrast to the black work, especially as regards the non-EU labour force, becomes an essential element. What did we add? We said that: The quality agricultural labour network can be joined, through the conclusion of special agreements, by the one-stop shops for immigration, local institutions, employment centres and bilateral bodies set up by employers' and agricultural workers' organisations. At this time of the Network are the employers' associations and workers' associations at national level. The Presidency is of the INPS. I want to stress that the Network has already begun to populate: there are several companies that have joined and, above all, the representations, which are participations absolutely free of charge, are very qualified. As far as trade unions are concerned, for example, there are the secretaries-general of the agricultural workers' trade associations. In short, it is an attempt on which we aim a lot, also because it comes from a concrete experience of contrasting to the black work in agriculture already experienced in some parts of the country by trade union agreements. What does this network do? It should do quarterly monitoring by accessing the data available from the INPS on the establishment, transformation and termination of employment relationships, on the development of the agricultural labour market, assessing, in particular, the relationship between the number of foreign workers who are employed and the number of foreign workers to whom clearance has been granted for agricultural work by the single immigration counters and promoting initiatives, including in agreement with the relevant authorities and the social partners, on active labour policies, combating undeclared work and contributory evasion, organisation and management of seasonal labour flows, assistance of foreign immigrant workers. I would like to say a word about that. We have a problem with the irregularity of companies which is very high. Despite the employment difficulties in the labour market in this period after such a long crisis, the 2014 data from the Ministry of Labour's Annual Labour and Social Security Supervision Report tell us that the inspections carried out 64.17% of the inspected companies were irregular. Black workers account for 42.61 percent of illegal workers; that is, although there has been a general fall in employment, we have 7% more workers in black compared to 2013 figures. The analysis of the use of the quota provided for in the 2013 decree flows - this is a report by the Ministry of Labour and the Directorate-General on immigration - tells us that 8,544 no obstacles were issued in 2013 and 78 percent were in agriculture, however, of these 8,544, only 4,692 were transformed into employment contracts. President, that only means one thing. Most likely there will be various situations of late arrival clearance or of workers who change their minds, but such a high percentage means that there is so much black work of people who enter with a clearance to work and then immerse themselves in black work. Agriculture is an area in which the phenomenon is very present. Mr President, the last thing I would like to say is that the territoriality of the intervention of the quality agricultural work network was carried out with another amendment that we have tabled using the provincial commissions for the wage integration of agricultural workers, a structure of the INPS, which has the territorial distribution of the INPS and is present in all the Provinces and also in various locations. Here the network will be able to conclude the various conventions to carry out the checks. The goal was to counter even the black work in agriculture having in mind the things and images that we have seen and that have shamed many Italians regarding the situations of Nardò and Rosarno. I also refer to a letter that in August 2014, not many months ago, the trade union organizations of the dependent agricultural labour sent to the prefect of Ravenna and to the mayors of Cesena, Forlì and Rimini to denounce the existence of a black job carried out by non-EU countries in condition of semi-slavery. This, Mr President, we decided that it might be interesting to intervene on the transport of workers to the camps and then we tabled an amendment which led to the current text of paragraph 7-a of Article 30: The persons authorised to transport persons issued by the competent authorities, who intend to transport agricultural workers, may conclude a special agreement with the Network. Local authorities may provide that the conclusion of the Convention is a necessary condition for access to the contributions established for the purpose by the same entities. There are, then, a number of other forecasts, including: the violation by the carrier of the provisions of the Convention implies the immediate ineffictivity of the same. Madam President, in this way, without further increase and costs for the State, we have designed an instrument that will give the possibility to the social organisations and the territorial structures of the agencies responsible for developing a refined and punctual control that - I hope - can lead in a reasonable time to eliminate a plague that seems incredibly strong and present in our territory, concerning the black work in agriculture, especially of non-EU citizens, which are a real scourge. In the year of the Expo, perhaps, a quality agricultural work network can also qualify Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u63	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, I am speaking on draft law No 1328, which lays down provisions on the simplification of the agricultural sector. Before entering into the heart of my speech, I would like to focus on what agriculture means for our country. (I use this expression with great respect and quote it). In Italy the resources of the subsoil and the considerable wealth of mineral water allow us to obtain a great variety of agricultural products and fruit and vegetables of excellent quality. These are natural resources valued by Italian farmers who, with great passion, have always dedicated themselves to improving their productions in terms of quality and health, encouraging organic production as much as possible free from unwanted chemical elements and harmful to our health. Italy has a long agro-food tradition: it is, in fact, one of the largest agricultural countries in the European Union. France, which accounts for 5.3% of world food trade, followed by Italy, has a 3% share. Despite these figures, agriculture and farmers are being severely tested, especially in recent years, by ineffective and harmful policies. Some data summarize the crisis situation in the sector. Dr. Paola Migliorini, agronomist and professor of the University of Gastronomic Sciences of Pollenzo, recalls that our farms have been reduced from about 4 million in the sixties to 1.5 million in 2012. This is a phenomenon that has intensified in recent decades: in fact, from 1990 to 2000 more than 400,000 companies have been lost; in the following decade 775,000. As Dr. Migliorini recalls, these impressive numbers do not receive the right echo in the media and pass in absolute silence: If the same loss had occurred in the car sector, it would have been discussed continuously on all media. And again, with regard to the importance of the responsibility and social role of farmers, Migliorini points out that farms manage 40% of the land in Europe, although farmers account for only 3% of the workforce. Through this data we understand how many things depend on farmers, including the maintenance of the landscape and the territory, as well as the sustainability of food. Therefore, given how strategic and fundamental this sector is for our territory, I would like to make some reflections on the measure under discussion today. The ratio should be to create a simple and understandable regulatory system for the agricultural sector: once again, however, we are faced with a heterogeneous and twisted set of rules, ranging from controls to the recruitment of workers, from administrative procedures to product labelling, from the organic sector to two delegation of legislative reorders for the government. Simplification is one of the European objectives of the sector, as the European Union's Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr Hogan, pointed out, who, in his speech at the Conference on the Sustainable Future of Agriculture in the European Union, first acknowledged the criticisms of the common agricultural policy, opening up the assessment of possible corrections. Then he declared: What is clear is that we need to reduce the administrative burden on farmers: simplification is therefore a key priority for our work programme in 2015 onwards. I hope, in this regard, that the Government will be on the same wavelength as the European Commissioner. I note, however, that the beautiful declarations of intent contrast with the fact that this measure has been blocked in Parliament since 21 February 2014, presented by the Letta Government in its last days of operation. Our farmers, those who guarantee the quality of our food, those who keep high the flag of Made in Italy in the world, those who protect the well-being and health of us consumers, deserve quick and targeted answers. Instead of slogans, tweets and slides - preferred by the President-in-Office - the government should set a clear path for the recovery of the Italian agri-food sector. We must create a favourable environment for development, through the simplification of bureaucratic procedures and the reduction of the tax burden, necessary to give oxygen to entrepreneurs and workers who work and live through this sector. The Commission should also be concerned about organic farming, but to date it merely plans a sustainable use of pesticides instead of focusing on the biological alternative. As can be seen from the conference National Action Plan for the sustainable use of plant protection products, coordination, research and innovation, rural development programmes would be allowed to consider organic and integrated agriculture and other methods, such as conservative methods, which use synthetic chemicals on the same level. It is a policy wanted and supported by lobbyists and multinationals, unscrupulously, which continues to influence the choices of the government. In short, public money is invested to finance practices that make massive use of pesticides, perhaps even carcinogenic to man. Organic farming, on the other hand, is based on respect for the entire ecosystem, enhances the resources of the territory with minimal invasive intervention on it and protects biodiversity, excluding the use of any chemical element and all genetically modified organisms. But, alas, the logic of the "earning at all costs and in spite of everything" of some multinational companies and unscrupulous lobbying means that Italy, according to a report by ISPRA of February 2015, is the largest consumer among those of Western Europe of pesticides per unit of cultivated area, with values double those of France and Germany. Colleagues, we immediately reverse the trend! The future for our nation must be marked by an eco-sustainable turning point in our productions, aimed at protecting small and medium-sized farms and farmers. The government must adopt concrete policies in this regard and, for once, reason in the interest of Italy, encouraging that green agricultural revolution, the only turning point towards the protection of the territory, the environment and health. I would like to mention and underline the opportunity to rethink a market for food products for the nourishment of the population, which aims at the gradual reduction of meat production, which is now excessive and harmful to the environment and to man, and gradually increasing the production of vegetables and investing in animal products. Italy is known all over the world for the quality of its food... PRESIDENT. Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, you should finish. I'll give you just a minute because time is contingent. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Then let's focus on our resources, let's make ourselves spokesperson in the world of our natural agriculture and also of our Mediterranean diet. In this regard, the Intergovernmental Committee of UNESCO has included the Mediterranean diet on the list of the intangible cultural heritage of humanity, because it is not only a healthy and correct diet, but also a set of skills, knowledge, practices and traditions ranging from landscape to table, including crops, harvesting, fishing, conservation, processing, preparation and, in particular, food consumption. In the food sector and in all that is related to it, we should also start investing in the use and consequent production of organic plastics through a transformation from the so-called classic industries to specific industries for the production of bioplastics. Plus, president. Now, however, it must be concluded. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Thirty more seconds, ma'am. The production of bioplastics would allow the use of waste from agro-industrial processing of foods such as potatoes, beets and wheat. In this way, we should replace the use of traditional plastics obtained from petrochemical processes involving the use of hydrocarbons. Madam President, I would like to ask you to attach the rest of your speech to the documents, since you have not been able to complete it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u65	We greet and welcome the students and teachers of the Istituto tecnico industriale statale. "Guglielmo Marconi" of Jesi, in the province of Ancona, visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating here today concerns areas which are increasingly proving to be strategic and fundamental to the economy of this country: agriculture, agri-food and fisheries. Today, when we talk about agriculture, we are confronted with innovation, research, new products and the need to enhance them, highlighting the excellence of this country. One of the areas covered by this measure - and I would like to add that at last! - It's the rice sector. I want to stress that Italy produces 48% of European rice and 425,000 hectares cultivated in Europe, 52 percent are Italian. Also for this reason our rice deserves to have its own connotation and must be recognized as a product of excellence of agro-food, especially at this time when foreign competition is very strong. With the approval of the delegation to the Government for the support of this specific sector (I refer to Article 25), we place the premises for the Executive to put hand to the draft of the new law on the rice market delivered to the Government, repealing antiquated legislation. In fact, the law governing the internal trade in rice dates back to March 1958: a rule built then to regulate an agricultural world that is no longer there. A long path of sharing and comparison with the trade associations and the entire rice chain, from production to processing and sale, has led to the drafting of this text which delegates the Government to adopt legislative decrees aimed, among other things, at supporting rice produced, sold or released for consumption on the national territory, to the identification of specific criteria for the protection of typical varieties, the protection of the consumer, the establishment of a register for the classification of new varieties, the definition of an appropriate sanctioning apparatus. A key step long awaited, too long, by the sector. That's why I trust that the Government will include rice made in Italy among its priorities, all the more so when a few days ago, the President of the Council inaugurated the most important showcase for our product: Expo. An exhibition that for six months will allow the rice chain to demonstrate the uniqueness, versatility and health of our product, the popular and gastronomic culture on which it is based, the territory that characterizes it and, above all, to identify and generate new markets. There is no duty or protection that they hold, even if it is useful to guarantee an equal competition on the international market, if first of all we do not demonstrate and make known the value and quality of our product. Also for this reason, the introduction of information and names on products for sale is an important achievement certainly for the consumer, but also for the promotion of the product, defining the names with which rice varieties can be sold and dividing the market into two segments: on the one hand the traditional varieties, such as Carnaroli, Arborio, Roma-Baldo, Ribe, Vialone Nano and Sant'Andrea, which will be indicated on the label; on the other the varieties that will appear to the consumer under the commonly used name on the international market (round, medium, long), accompanied or not by their name. This is a line proposed by the National Lisi Board, shared with the agricultural federations (Coldiretti, Confagricoltura and CIA) and the Italian Association of Resierere Industries. This is another important demonstration of how the entire sector has the will to present itself compact and work in synergy, as confirmed by the more than 50 companies present in the pavilion of the Federalimentare present at the Expo Cibus is Italy, where the National Agency laughs offers the visitor an interactive path that illustrates the history and seasonal evolution of the ricehouse, processing, culture and gastronomy. From there to come and visit our rice fields, the pace is short and sometimes these visits can amaze us, who live in those areas. To be together and to make critical mass is an effort that must be recognized, first of all by completing the regulatory process of the measure under consideration, in order to deliver to the rice cultivation all the tools necessary to distinguish itself on the national and international market. I conclude with the words of Minister Martina: Italian rice brings history, tradition and has an undisputed environmental value: a fundamental production, to be told to the world. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u67	In addition to the Expo, we will have to visit the rice fields.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u68	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u69	Madam President, we would have expected the clamour about this measure, because according to what the then President of the Council Enrico Letta announced, it was one of the main measures of the Government, if not the main one: it was 31 January 2014 and there was still time at the beginning of the Italian Presidency of the European Union and the inauguration of the Expo. Madam President, I would like to remind the House of what the then President of the Council of Ministers, Enrico Letta, together with the Undersecretary of Castiglione and Maurizio Martina, the current Minister, said on that occasion: We will give even more competitiveness to a crucial sector, especially in view of Expo 2015, whose themes are closely linked to agriculture and land. 2014 must be the year in which the preparation of the Expo and the Italian agri-food produce the synergy necessary for their mutual success. We then wonder why the measure has remained in the Commission for almost a year and a half - going back and forth - without the Government subsequently showing much concern, having passed in the hands of President Renzi the task of carrying it forward. But how? If the theme of the Expo and agriculture is one of the most popular by the Government, why is this measure languishing for months instead? There is therefore the feeling that, since the measure is marked "Government Letta" it is not part of the priorities of the current President of the Council of Ministers, not because of the content of agriculture, but because of the matrix that generated it: this says a lot about the seriousness of the Government towards those who work in agriculture. Madam President, this measure comes to the House essentially empty and pierced, because the competition law has removed a large part of it. Today we are even faced with the paradox of an entire article, the 29th, which deals with water culture or hicticulture, which is sucked by a provision that is currently under discussion in the House of Deputies: a paradox. This measure should protect the made in Italy. President Letta also wrote that the goal is to fill one of the main gap that hinders the export of Made in Italy, that is the absence of strong Italian distribution platforms that protect the brands. Well, after a year and a half, even today, the European semester has passed, Expo has begun and we still do not have a system, Minister, that is able to protect our brands in the most qualified products. Just go to any store or supermarket. I was here today in Rome: I found a food product on whose packaging it says "parma salad" and I looked at it to the right and left, above and below, but I could not in any way be sure that this is done in Parma and that it is done with Italian pig meat. I found another one, even with a tricolor ribbon that declares in all senses its theoretical Italianity: I turned it upside down and nowhere can it be seen that this is produced with Italian pig. Still, I didn't stop and I took another product on which there is drawn a small Italy with a tricolor and it says: "prosciutto crudo", I turned it from all sides and you can't understand that this is an Italian product. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator De Pin]] The real problem, Minister, is that this is hardly an Italian product because otherwise it would have been declared, because to declare that a product is Italian means to have a plus; but if it is not produced in Italy but is made to pass as Italian it produces a damage to our economy; it produces a serious damage to the Country, which the same Government quantifys in more than 60 billion euros a year. On these issues we expected concrete answers from this measure, which have not arrived, and it has been more than a year; on these things we expected serious interventions from the European Semester and nothing has been done. Let's get to the paradox. Also in the press - it was May 4th - there was an article on the "Corriere della sera" (Corriere della sera) with the advertising of Zibello's culatello and below concluded: "We must avoid calling what culatello is not "culatello." Here's the forgery. Minister, you are part of that same Government which decriminalized in December last year the counterfeiting of geographical indications or designation of origin of agri-food products. I'm talking about the legislative decree implementing delegation law no. 67 which provides for the decriminalization of different crimes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Even today it is no longer criminal to counterfeit the brand DOP, IGT or IGP; and we come to talk about the protection of Made in Italy? This is really the paradox. If we then go through the list of 112 criminal offences, we find also the adulteration or counterfeiting of things in damage to public health rather than the trade of harmful food substances, and even if we go on, the sale of food substances not genuine as genuine: everything in contrast with a measure that, according to the Government, hearing also the rapporteur, who explained the report, should be the panacea of all the evils of agriculture. I should also like to mention one subject, which is the stone feast in every Committee on Agriculture: this was the opportunity to revisit the problem of the agricultural IMU. The government made a mistake to insert that tax; with this provision you had the opportunity to remedy it; you have cleared it. There are amendments - we will see them later - which propose the IMU exemption at least in the event of disasters or where there are crops put in serious condition by diseases. We'll see what the Minister and Government do. We certainly do not have foreclosure of the final vote; we want to see from the vote on the amendments, how the debate will proceed and what the approved and rejected rules will be. I come back to what President Letta said at the time: "Thanks to the rules of the link it will be possible to open an agricultural activity more quickly" (regulatory simplification) "considered that the term for silence-consent for administrative procedures was cut by two thirds, going from one hundred and eighty to sixty days, with a small revolution for agricultural start-ups." Well, on 7 December of this year, Mr President, a newspaper article came to me, which spoke of the difficulty of our companies with regard to the European bureaucracy which is added to the Italian bureaucracy for the export of wine. The European bureaucracy - and I quote - has become an unsustainable burden for wine-growing enterprises; it weighs at least 20% on company budgets and is insane. To send a wine carton to Germany a company must make at least 30 different cards, not to mention if it is to be exported to the United States. We are faced with some sort of regulation madness. Of all this the measure does not deal with, it does not simplify anything. In recent days I have attended the annual provincial congress of Confagricoltura in Varese and on that occasion I have listened to the words of the president of the association, which I bring back to you, Mr. Deputy Minister, for your timely knowledge. The president said on April 19: I try to say ours starting from the enterprise and beginning from an illustrious colleague, the agronomist Arrigo Serpieri, inventor of the agricultural economy in Italy, who defines the agrarian company as "the elementary combination of means of production," that is, land, work and capital. The enterprise serves to produce value and the entrepreneur, that is who makes the choices and decides, risks personally and is paid only if he is good. It seems simple and obvious: land, work and capital alone do not combine and produce anything; it is necessary for the entrepreneur and for there to be the entrepreneur it is essential to the incentive of the income of enterprise. Good, bad, because today all this has become a burden, a cart and throwing this cart in our country has become very heavy. We have to bear the weight of a political class that is often baffled, of an asphyxiating bureaucracy, of contradictory regulations; I add to it access to credit that is similar to an obstacle course, and the spatial planning that we see every day. A few other examples to be mentioned only by chance: the farce of the agricultural IMU, the mockery of agricultural diesel oil, the tragedy of milk quotas, the delusion of the recovery of debts both by individuals and by the public administration. Eurostat told us, in a document that I will then hand over to the Presidency so that it can see it, that Italian farmers suffer much more than European colleagues. Over the last decade, an employee's real income in Italy has fallen by 0.8%, while the European average has risen by 34.4%. It is clear that our country has lost competitiveness, the same competitiveness that this measure should have given instead. We are a year and a half late and a year and a half after the measure is empty, without any ability to solve these problems. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u70	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u71	Madam President, in expressing my satisfaction with the work done together by Parliament and the Government, I take the floor to briefly mention a subject which is not mentioned in the link, but which I have taken into account in the intervention of Senator Pignedoli, who referred to the risks facing small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises; these are risks which can sometimes not be avoided - we think of the atmospheric ones or the serious repercussions that may arise for a market not always so simple there is to be faced for the smaller ones - but also of distortions and negative repercussions that can be produced paradoxically by rules that have been born to help agriculture. In particular I refer to that article 62 of Decree-Law No. 1 of 2012 that bears the discipline of the commercial relations in the matter of the cession of agricultural and agri-food products, establishing to paragraph 3 that for the contracts that have the object of the cession of agricultural and food products the payment of the consideration must be made for the perishable goods within the legal deadline of thirty days from the delivery or the withdrawal and for all the other goods within the 60 days period. However, later Article 36 of Law No 221 of 2012 states that contracts concluded between agricultural entrepreneurs do not constitute supplies within the meaning of Article 62 above. What does all this translate into for some categories of farmers? I refer to the nursery workers, who are a very important reality in our country and especially in Sicily. In the area from which I come, that is, in the territory of Ragusano, the nurseryrs, who are farmers, buy the seeds, therefore agricultural products, from the seed farms, but who are not farmers and therefore have to pay within the sixty days provided for in Article 62; but then they sell and sell their plants, which in the meantime have grown, to the farmers who therefore, according to Article 62, are not obliged to pay within sixty days. This determines a twist, a paradoxical and negative effect of relapse on these entrepreneurs who turn out to be really important in a certain territory of our country. Since we have already talked about this on other occasions, I therefore ask the Minister, our Government, to find a measure, a system to respond to this distortion, because what has been thought of to do good to agriculture, in this small segment risks causing unbearable damage, if it is true - as is true - that aggravates a moment of crisis in agriculture that we all know. I would like above all to bring to your knowledge the fact that many of our young people have engaged in this environment; many of the young people who have trained, who have gone abroad, who have grown up, who have continued their family's activities or who have rather invented new ones, really able to surprise an economy and an entire country positively. Well, I wonder how these entrepreneurs can resist this very serious injustice that only they, a small segment, live, but that has an important impact and very serious consequences on their economy. I don't know if you remember (the Minister knows) what fruit and vegetable production represents in the Province of Ragusa, which has the highest production in Italy in this sector. Of course, fruit and vegetables come from the plants produced by these nursery workers; if they jump because they can no longer support this block, the whole agricultural economy will have a negative impact. Given that there was a time for revision and verification of this rule, I would urge you to carry out a check, to assess the positive effects but also the negative effects that unfortunately led to it. I therefore hope that this will be included in the next useful measure and that farmers and entrepreneurs who have been waiting for a long time will be given an answer. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u72	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u73	Madam President, the link to the 2013 Stability Act finally arrives in the Chamber (yes, you understand correctly, 2013). Arrived in the Commission on 21 February 2014, it was decided in the Presidency Council to proceed quickly, so as to conclude its examination before summer 2014, but in June 2014 the first braking came: the Government would issue a so-called competitiveness decree-law containing various measures related to the agricultural world, which would absorb some articles of the related; then, through accelerations and braking, with expiry dates of submission of the amendments continuously moved forward, we reached the end, not without having included in the link many measures that have nothing to do with the original text. 8 paragraphs in Article 1 and 13 articles have been added. The Government has not lost the vice, already denounced for the approval of the decree-competitiveness law, to take measures studied and analyzed in the Commission and to insert them at random, summing up an organic measure in a few paragraphs and therefore rendering incomprehensible the legislative improvement. Here I shall just say two lines about the former Article 7, which has now become Article 9. I would like to point out that this article has been rewritten six times in order to arrive at the current version. This is an important article, as it delegates to the Government the reorganization of the participating bodies of the Ministry of Agricultural Policies. I would like to read a passage that seems paradigmatic to me: The reorganisation must also provide for a control system that ensures the necessary independence from the provider, resulting in rationalization or abolition of the company AGECONTROL SpA, including through its confluence in entities, companies or agencies supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policies, and by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. It would have been more decent to write something like: The government does what it wants. This article is an empty delegation, in white, to a government that does not have clear ideas. That it does not have the clear ideas is understood by reading the first lines of response to the urgent questioning to the Minister by the 5 Star Movement in the Chamber, act 2-00908, on the future of the relationship AGEA-SIN, which I read: With reference to the questions raised by the interrogators, I would point out first that a detailed reflection is under way (underline an articulated reflection) about the validity of the current system of the service model with particular reference to the current governance based on the public-private partnership. I would like to point out that in the Commission, as Mr Ruvolo said, we have been discussing this for a year and a half, and on this subject the proposals of the 5 Star Movement are precise and put in black and white in the draft law No 1602 at my first signature. I wonder what else you need to think about in order to have clear ideas and so I give you some ideas. The daily event of 13 April reports that the European Commission's Directorate-General for Agriculture has proposed a "financial correction" for the "serious deficiencies" challenged by AGEA. There seems to be a letter of objection in which Brussels would have pointed out 55,000 practices relating to funding allocated to farmers who were not entitled to it and that this will cost us EUR 540 million, which will be deducted from the amount of the next funding to farmers. Vice-Minister, I would also like to read that letter of objection, would I be grateful if you could give me a copy of it and, so much so that we are here, could you also give me the record of these 55,000 people who were not entitled to funding? I'm sure I'll find a lot of friends of yours. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Consider this my request an official request for access to documents. To heal this question here is the decree of Minister Martina, n. 1922 of 20 March 2015. Article 9, according to many, is a real sponge stroke, of the series... who gave, gave, who had, had. But weren't you the ones who made a mistake pay, like those of milk quotas? We recall that three AGEA officials risk the trial because, according to the prosecutor's argument, the suspects in the performance of their duties transmitted to the European Commission the statements of assurance relating to the annual accounts of the paying agencies, failing to inform the Commission itself of the actual number and actual extent of the debit positions resulting from the unduly paid payments, and attaching to those declarations the certifications on the basis of data provided by them and not truthful. The crimes contested by Concetta Lo Conte, Paolo Gulinelli and Alberto Migliorini for these facts are ex officio and false abuse; crimes at risk of prescription for the law, but related to facts committed. Vice-Minister, is it true that there is an internal document in AGEA which summarizes all the financial corrections charged to Italy from the 1999 to 2015 financial year for a total scandalous amount of €2,213,498,990,76? Detained compensated by the treasury for false acts and failed controls carried out by AGEA with the omerty of ministerial controllers. I would point out that these figures do not include the milk quota fines, but rather, where there is the item "milk quotas" are positive corrections (so money that has forfeited the Italian State). As I said in my question on the occasion of the question time of 12 February 2015, in paragraph 135 of T661/11, it is clearly stated by the European Community that Italy has not carried out the checks and cannot objectively determine that quantity. That is why Italy has been fined EUR 70 million and the Minister has not yet told me who to pay for it. Having said that, and having regard to the above, it would be appropriate for the Minister to suspend the files sent to the breeders, since those responsible for the scams and false acts sent to the European Commission should be identified first. There are other things, Deputy Minister, but you have to explain it to me. The national database of the zootechnical registry, a database certified by the European Community since 13 February 2006, says that on 1 December 2014 in Italy there were 1,276,577 (to be precise) lactating cows, decreasing by about 15,000 cows compared to six months before, then with a downward trend. Also including the number of suckler cows, these animals which only have to feed calves (it is called a cow-vintage line) and their milk cannot be marketed for a specific Community regulation. Let's try to understand: the average milk production per year, albeit different by breed, on a sample that includes the best farms in the North, almost all of the Frisian breed, is 87,3 quintals per cow per year, as evidenced in the bulletin of the controls of the productivity of milk 2014 of the Italian Association of Breeders on 18,036 farms. Now, if we multiply the number of cows by 87.3 quintals, we see that Italian milk production is 110 million quintals. If Italy is considered to have a guaranteed general quantity of 112,885,428,66 quintals (according to European Regulation 326 of 2012), how can it be that Italy exceeds its guaranteed general quantity? Perhaps for the Ministry and AGEA arithmetic is an opinion. How, then, can AGEA say that we have produced more milk than we have agreed with Europe, if cows fall and the average production of milk per head remains constant? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani]] With the same numbers for five years everything went well and this year didn't. We remember that the milk quotas ended on 31 March last and that, in order to help the livestock sector, the Ministry has constituted a fund of 108 million euros for the three-year period 2015-2017. But where does the Ministry get this money? Simple: changing the rules of the game to game over. I repeat that the rules of the game are established before playing; then it is Mafia. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And here I am referring to the decree of last Thursday, April 30. How can we define a decree at the end of the year and at the end of the game, if not yet another piggy or, better, yet another cow (better stay on the topic)? This protects friends, allowing them to purchase or sell quotas, a turnover of about 90 million euros. A bit like the popular bank decree: there it was seen that those who bought the shares did it because they knew. Minister, in September 2014, for technical reasons, only the July figure was available. How could it be said that it would be produced by exceeding the general guaranteed quantity? Prevision? You don't know what you're saying, explain it to us. The important thing, however, is to slap; little, better if very little. It is with this decree and with the previous laws that Italy will pay little to Europe, but the breeders will pay all the surplus to the state, including the previously admitted threshold. In order to explain to the citizens who follow us in a simplistic way - and I repeat simplistic, because the thing is really complex - we can say that, if the decree establishes a threshold of 12% and I have splaphoned of 13%, I farmer must pay the fine for all 13% to the State, but in compensation with Europe Italy will pay only 1% difference: the remaining 12% if it holds it and in this way you create the granzzletto of 108 million. I repeat that the rules of the game are established before playing; then it is Mafia. Mr Vice-Minister, I would ask you whether it is true that you are waiting to verify the latest production data available these days to adjust the threshold by 12%, so that it can be raised by a few percentage points. According to some projections, the current quota would generate a small sum of 180 million; since it serves 108, the percentage can be raised, to console the trade union organizations, so there is the time of sixty days for the conversion of the decree that allows it. I hope I have clarified some of the ideas about AGEA; to reform it, it is enough that you read my bill. As you can see, Mr Vice-Minister, there are many questions you will have to answer, not to me, but to farmers; it is time to stop considering agricultural management as "your thing." [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u74	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Olivero, with the related agriculture we want to give a strong boost to competitiveness in a crucial sector for the country's economy and at the heart of international attention at the inauguration of Expo 2015, the theme of which is "Feeding the planet, energy for life". This is an unrepeatable opportunity - I am sorry for those who see the glass always half empty - to give back real energy to the country. After decades in which the dominant thought had destined the agricultural sector to a marginal role, the increasing awareness of the value of agri-food production, as a distinctive and peculiar character of the Italian identity recognized and sought from all over the world, has resumed momentum and is an expression of openness and foresight of our policies. Today agricultural production and Mediterranean diet are the pride of our country. The competitiveness bill supports and facilitates farmers and agricultural entrepreneurs, who with sacrifice and capacity have also innovated in technology, have invested and intend to invest in the modernisation of the sector and to compete with emerging markets, focusing on excellence. Italian agri-food excellence is the added value of our country, which requires us to protect and defend against the spread of counterfeits that exploit the prestige of Made in Italy to invade the market with products of dubious origin and quality. Well, the damage caused by the deception is multiple and goes to steal huge market shares from our producers. The strengthening of the protection of Made in Italy is completed by the introduction in the penal code of prohibition from the exercise of the profession for those who counterfeit or alter typical geographical indications or designations of origin. What is important is what is defined in terms of simplification, where checks are carried out, by strengthening the coordination of the activities of the supervisory bodies, on the prohibition of duplication of investigations. The greater simplification of the control system corresponds to their greater efficiency and effectiveness through the increase in the number of controlled holdings. Overlays are avoided and the production needs of companies are finally met. Thanks to the rules of the link it will be possible to open an agricultural activity in a short time, reduced to two thirds: a small revolution for agricultural start-ups. The generational shift and the development of youth entrepreneurship in agriculture, favoured by Article 6 of the draft law, which provides for forms of support between elderly farmers, pensioners and young people who do not own agricultural land, with forms of takeover and sharing of profits and tax reliefs, constitute a major innovation element and a further challenge for the relaunch of work and youth entrepreneurship. Social agriculture and short-chain products will be exploited, as well as the alignment of national legislation with Community guidelines on risk management in agriculture. But I would also like to stress the fundamental reference to the strengthening of logistic poles, the innovative platforms indispensable for the development of export, where the road transport must be replaced with that on rail and sea. Article 11 seems to me to be absolutely important and innovative in this respect. I am convinced that, on this ground, Italy will be able to play with prospects of great success the cards of its competitiveness. Precisely for this reason, it is essential to allow our entrepreneurs to be lightened by the bureaucratic and fiscal burdens that are real zavores that slow down and that have slowed down and slowed down until now even the race of the talents: this will not have to happen again. Let me stress a further essential synergy between agriculture, the protection of the integrity of the landscape and the protection of the soil, remembering that Italy has extraordinary agricultural landscapes, shaped by man who are the cultural heritage of humanity protected by UNESCO. And it is precisely this model, typically Mediterranean and Italian in particular, that is being established, based on systems of local food production, which enhance territorial and cultural diversity, the so-called short food chains. I conclude by recalling the strategic value for the agricultural sector and for the country of the Expo 2015, which will bring back to the center of reflections on development the imperative to guarantee food and life to millions of people who struggle daily for survival. Investing in technology and research in agriculture, for sustainable development; investing in food education in schools; teaching children to girls, adolescents and students not only not to waste the products of the earth, but to love and appreciate them, to distribute them equally: these are the objectives of our country, in which the school must play a leading role, to raise awareness of the great theme of guaranteeing access to food for all, when the forecasts indicate that, although production is growing, demand is always and still higher. Promoting a proper lifestyle, a healthy diet, strengthening common behaviors and policies to safeguard the present and future well-being of adults and children, is a mission of which our country must become ambassador, with a view to a full awareness of the historical emergency of the Mediterranean and the need to build a more just and supportive world. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u76	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, all too often our country's productive activity is trapped in bureaucratic requirements and controls that I cannot but call genuine enemies of development. Instead of being an instrument of support and guarantee, to the citizen and to the enterprise, such a system ends up being a relentless harassment and a masochistic obstacle to entrepreneurial initiative. All this, moreover, without adding anything to the quality and security that the state has a duty to guarantee. More controls do not necessarily amount to more guarantees. Actually. With a pachydermic and polycephalic system, such as the current one of controls in agri-food, the only effect we can give for sure is the feeding of that disorientation and that distrust towards the system that is the first real obstacle to every hope and every investment for the future. The state cannot, at this time more than ever, allow citizens' contributions to be squandered to support a system that, besides not producing added value, contributes to the spread of that feeling of mistrust and discouragement that we all seem to recognize in words and that, if we do not contribute effectively to eliminating its causes, we will not be able to blame in any way. Rationalisation of resources for controls in the agri-food sector is a step in the right direction. Control bodies must act in a coordinated manner, avoiding duplication and overlap. If we put this system in a position to regain momentum and efficiency, I am sure that we will make a significant contribution to the development of the agri-food sector. A sector that, in our country, is the first engine and boast. All the more reason today, with the flagship Expo. The tax credit in favour of companies producing agri-food products, and therefore made in Italy, is a good example of those breaths of oxygen that the country increasingly feels the need and that it is our task to promote with determination and constancy. Oxygen that can also be copious by facilitating participation in European aid programmes. Looking at how many occasions our country has missed in recent years, it is almost unbearable a bike of anger mixed with unbelief. In view of the sums paid to Europe by Italy, and therefore by Italian citizens, our companies are still struggling to enjoy the Community funds available. This is an unacceptable and unjustifiable reality. Technical and documentary assistance, aimed at facilitating access to European funds, should therefore be provided without increasing the expenditure of the bodies responsible for this activity. We cannot forget young people: young people are our future. If they are not helped in their entrepreneurial projects, then everything we are discussing today will be swept away by the wind raised by the planes, trains and ships that continue to bring our young talents to countries where the soil is more fertile. Our young people have the right to a choice, to a possibility of development, to a winning perspective in the country where they were born, where they have their own affections and loved ones. The measures to support micro and small enterprises with youth participation, the generational shift in agriculture and the improvement of the conditions for access to credit are good. There are, however, problems, which I cannot help but point out. Change for change is a blind horizon and from which to get away. The expense savings, the so-called spending review, cannot be made with the acceptance, nor pretending not to know that behind the numbers there are people, lives, professional paths. In this respect, attention should be paid to the implementation of the reorganization, abolition and reduction of the agencies supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and Forestry Policies. It will also be necessary to insist that as significant a share as possible of the savings achieved be reinvested in the same agri-food sector. Our country desperately needs help and I believe that politics can no longer afford not to respond adequately. [[Applause from Senators Bocchino and Casaletto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u78	She is registered to speak Senator Saggese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u79	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before the House is a text on which the Committee on Agriculture has worked a great deal in recent months. It is a bill that contains both delegations to the Government and measures of immediate application, with the objective, also in the agricultural sector, as happened a few weeks ago in the public administration, to simplify and rationalise the rules, always in the ultimate aim of increasing competitiveness and above all to promote job opportunities, especially for young people. It is a text which, during the examination in the referee, has been considerably revised with respect to the initial formulation, certainly improved and enriched thanks to a wide and constructive debate and the contribution provided by the associations operating in the sector. In this speech I will focus mainly on Article 6 of the text, to which my colleagues who spoke earlier referred. The article provides for measures to facilitate the processes of economic support management in the activity of agricultural enterprise, so heavily affected by the economic crisis of recent years, with the aim of promoting the development of youth entrepreneurship in the same sector. The two purposes indicated were not randomly inserted. On the one hand, the economic crisis has also had a negative impact on the primary sector, where production has fallen due to a decrease in food demand. These factors are accompanied by a considerable reduction in the number of companies operating in the sector. However, the agricultural sector is and still remains strategic for our country: in recent years the recessive phase has been partly offset by an increase in exports that has made it possible to improve the food balance and by a resumption of investments by farmers. The same reduction in the number of enterprises can be seen in a process of general reorganisation of the sector, leading to a gradual disposal of micro-enterprises and an extension of the size of those operating on the market. On the other hand, the other objective that has been tried to achieve was to offer young people a future in the agricultural sector, which is an important possibility of turning into a turning point, especially in the context of the Centre-South, which still sees very high rates of youth unemployment today. To this end, the economic and management flanking is just a functional tool to the realization of a sort of generational relay. The experience of those who have been working in the sector for years, filled by the enthusiasm and energy of the younger classes, is a mix that can lead to a decisive development of agriculture. In particular, the objective is to promote a form of support between over 65-year-old farmers or pensioners and young people, not owners of agricultural land, aged between 18 and 40 years, in view of the gradual transition of the management of the business from the first to the second. Before going into the matter, the instrument that you chose to use was not that of delegation to the Government. It has been chosen to use the regulatory instrument which is certainly more flexible and which takes a shorter time, especially with a view to possible integration, because it has been foreseen a time within which to verify the point of implementation of the legislation and the benefits that derive from the generational replacement from the introduction of these rules. The regulation will be called upon to establish a number of elements: the duration of the partnership, which may not exceed three years, a reasonable time to allow the transfer of know-how from older people to young people. Then, thanks to this relay, there are forms of tax concessions and reductions similar to those provided for in the current rules for start-ups. At the end of the flanking activity, there are various possible hypotheses: a takeover of the young farmer, a contract of management or even the provision of appropriate forms of compensation. What emerges and that comes out in a fundamental and important way is that the whole project of accompaniment is based on an entrepreneurial project, which must be prepared by the young farmer, which aims to define the mutual obligations in the management of the enterprise and which provides precise rules for sharing profits. Finally, the Regulation will provide for land improvements, guarantee schemes also for accident cover and a number of additional preferential rules for the management and use of agricultural means. In short, this is a package of measures that the agricultural sector strongly needed. Today, in Italy, the phenomenon of the ageing of agricultural entrepreneurs has a structural character and is the result of a double difficulty: that of the elderly to get out of the sector and that of the young people to enter it. That is why it was absolutely necessary to intervene and to provide for measures that would enable the most experienced farmers, who know the structural, infrastructural and even natural characteristics of the land to transmit these reports, often not available from studies, to the younger generations. It is in this direction of generational replacement that Article 10 of the measure, relating to the creation of the land bank, is also inserted. Here again, it is a sort of inventory in which all the land is put together, with all the features accessible also via the Internet, in order to allow those who want to access the land to facilitate the process of sale and turnover in the conduct of the land. In conclusion, I think that this choice is strategic and widely shared, aimed at encouraging the entry of young people. Already in recent months this Parliament has approved measures in this direction and others are being added today. The aim is always to reward and enhance those who have an appropriate degree of education and who have not yet had the opportunity to have a practical experience in the agricultural sector; those who have not inherited a land or those who, more simply, despite the difficulties, still believe in the land and still want to try to do business in a complicated sector such as agriculture. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u80	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u81	Madam President, this is about agriculture and simplification, since everything is then needed to ensure that our farmers are able to compete with other foreign competitors. We are in the globalised world and, therefore, we must welcome products from abroad. Well, we - we Italians - accept this challenge, also because we know very well that we have a renowned product and that we even copy other countries (we see it especially with reference to milk products and its derivatives, as well as salami). There is, however, a problem. We are talking here about simplification and it is right that there should be simplification. On the contrary, we are pushing for simplification, even if you have rejected all our amendments on simplification. Someone might say, "No, they weren't appropriate, they didn't like them." They were amendments, therefore, proposed modifications, which totally simplified the lives of our farmers and farmers. But the government probably thinks of something else. I'd even say he's thinking of multinational companies and we're seeing him with Expo. Even the Region of Sicily had to leave a cluster (the one of the bio) and suspended the activities because the pavilion is not yet finished and there are problems. Instead, everything runs smoothly for the multinationals. [[Comments of Senator Formigoni]] I am overconvinced, on the contrary, of course, that the rules contained in this measure are always for big people. The Italian Government must put itself once and forever in mind that Italy is made up of small - I repeat: small - while the big ones are foreign ones. We're getting food, even in the retail sector. We had a meeting with the Auchan Group today in the Sub-Committee at the Commission, and we saw how it behaved in the territories. There are even hypermarkets - I repeat: hypermarkets - at a distance of five, seven or eight kilometers from each other. What does the multinational do like this? It destroys the fabric and, once it has destroyed it, knows that it has taken away all the competitors; after that, it closes the hypermarkets because they do not serve. And what does he do? You take the small shops that, of course, have been destroyed by this cannibalization of the territory. The same is about to happen in the agricultural sector. And what is our government's answer? The IMU on agricultural land, this is the answer; the other answer is the increase in the tax base on agricultural land. You wash your mouth by saying that in Italy there is the landscape and that it is necessary to make sure that Italy can live of its great beauty, of tourism, because we really could live of tourism, given our cultural, archaeological and food and wine. And then what? And then we put taxes on it. Our farmers and farmers can't take it anymore. I have spoken with a group: they do not ask for facilitations, they even ask for more controls and the obligation to indicate in detail on labels that they are Italian products. They ask to prohibit that on an Italian product there is the Italian flag when in reality that product is not Italian, is not produced in Italy and does not come from our farms. But all this in the provision is actually not there, there is no protection of the real made in Italy. I believe that we have done an excellent job; on your part there are nos. However, it is quite clear that we are not the gentlemen of the no, but you. You have not passed an amendment: you are the Lords of the No. Who wrote this provision to you? Multinationals? Take care, though: if you are doing a favor today I don't know who, certainly not the Italians, tomorrow we will find ourselves without having more of our products. So the situation is serious. We therefore ask the Government, when we begin to vote on the measure in this House, to review its opinion on our amendments. A short time ago I heard a colleague quoting a few speeches in favour of young farmers. In fact, we have proposed an amendment which gives young people the opportunity to have free land for the uncultivated and left free state. Mr Albano (PD). But the law already exists. PUGLIA (M5S). We have proposed with our amendment the establishment of a land bank: vote in favour at least of this amendment, not for us, because we do not care, we do not have ideologies. Vote for that amendment at least for our young people and for our future. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u82	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u85	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, it has been since November 2013 that we have been trying to get answers that must mostly be given to citizens, to the workers of the former British American Tobacco in Lecce. The workers are still waiting. The last chance in order of time should have been May 12, at 10 am, with a meeting at the MISE. However, that possibility was also denied to workers. The company replied with a letter which reads as follows: In response to the new convocation received for the dispute concerning the conversion of the production plant ex British American Tobacco, scheduled for 12 May p.v. at 10 am, the writer Company reiterates that, as already communicated in response to the previous convocation, it does not believe to have to attend this new scheduled meeting. It is confirmed, however, the availability to a separate meeting to be held exclusively with the directors of the MISE and the representatives of the Government, in order only to feed every appropriate exchange of information on the dispute, proposing from now on the date of May 12 next, at 4 pm. Greetings. Giovanni Carucci, Vice-President of the Commission. Well, why is there a request for a meeting excluding workers? Is there something to hide? What don't workers need to know? That's the question. And why, then, is this meeting called for to feed information? The only thing to feed in this case is the fact that the company must give directly to the workers, pending the famous industrial conversion plan, which should have already been implemented but which has not yet been implemented in Lecce. In the meantime, however, the same company has reopened the factory in Ferentino, as reported by an article in a national newspaper... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Donno. WOMAN (M5S). What I want to light a lighthouse on - and I conclude - is that it is a new incitement, an incitement to the revolt. For these reasons already one person lost his life last year, Mr. Fabrizio Budano, and was opened... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] A few minutes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u86	Not a few minutes, but just a few seconds, otherwise we won't let the other senators intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u87	WOMAN (M5S). A few seconds to say that Lecce's attorney has already opened a suicide investigation for Mr. Budano, who lost his life last year. We don't want this to be the beginning of a series. We want workers to see their right to work respected. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u88	We greet the representatives of the young hoteliers of South Tyrol. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u91	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, at the meeting on 27 April, there were more than 600 employees of the former Indesit now Whirlpool at the MISE. In Rome they arrived by 12 buses. To reassure them, he was told that there was ample willingness to revise the industrial plan and to postpone the discussion to subsequent meetings on 29 April, 5 and 8 May. To date, two of the three meetings have already taken place and, as far as we can see, despite the words of availability nothing has changed, and in fact the company confirms the layoffs and the closure of the plants. In Pompeii on 18 April the President of the Renzi Council promised the workers of the former Indesit an active participation of the Government in resolving their situation. It turns out to us that, to date, the government is silent. Where are Minister Guidi and President Renzi? I don't think we've attended the last two meetings. What I find most shameful, moreover, is that now, two years after the beginning of the Indesit crisis, pure opportunism of electoral campaign make the catwalk all those subjects until today dormant. Where was the current president of the Caldoro Region in these two years, when the workers asked him for support? Where was the condemned former mayor of Salerno De Luca who now, being shamefully candidate for the Presidency of the Region, will wave so many beautiful words of solidarity? President, we cannot remain impassive in the face of the desperate words of the workers who, on the roof of the factory in Carinaro, threaten to jump down, declaring: If we die, our wives will at least be entitled to insurance! After the umpteenth empty table, yesterday in Rome, today hundreds of workers poured on the A1 motorway, in the Marcianise-Caserta section, blocking both roads and, only after the intervention of the Prefect of Caserta, who decided to meet them today, the workers freed the road. President, we are now at a month of mobilization. These workers are experiencing a nightmare and, night and day, they are mobilizing to have attention and answers. We cannot always reduce ourselves to the last second available or wait until, overwhelmed by tiredness or anger, due to the abandonment by the institutions, some of them carry out some act that could put them in danger. There is a need for clarity, transparency and truth for these citizens and for all workers Whirlpool-Indesit, for which Renzi was responsible, kicking away competitors interested in Indesit, when he declared that it was a fantastic operation. I repeat this once again: Minister Guidi immediately responds to our urgent questioning 2-00267, filed on 29 April, at sitting No 438, which I therefore urge once again today. Please come to the House and answer all the questions we have asked. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u92	I would point out to you, Senator Moronese, that tomorrow the Minister for Economic Development will be in the Assembly for the question time on corporate crises. MORONESE (M5S). It is different: this is an interrogation that must follow an abbreviated procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to point out to you, Senator, that you will be able to submit an immediate question on this particularly serious crisis.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u95	GIBIINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, a particularly serious fact has happened today, because the total absence of government in Sicily by Governor Crocetta will, in all probability, lead tomorrow to the suspension and interruption of the connections with the smaller islands by Ustica Lines. These are tens and tens of millions of euros of morosity from the Sicilian Region, of 400 direct employees who will go home and of a damage to the uncommon induced. In addition to this, I remember that in Sicily, at this moment, the tourist season has taken off strongly and therefore, to the discomfort in the connection for the populations of the smaller islands, the one is combined for the tourist flows, which are substantially interrupted, with considerable damage to the tourism economy. I therefore, together with my Sicilian Senators from the Forza Italia and Grandi Autonomie e Libertà Groups, tabled an urgent question on 4-03923, and we wanted to speak at the end of the sitting, to urge and inform the Presidency of what will happen tomorrow morning, so that the Ministers to whom the question is addressed can do what is necessary to ensure that this does not happen and that the presidency of the Senate also takes note of this and has confidence in it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u98	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to speak on the same subject. The employment situation that is created is very serious, and not only for the 400 employees, who have already received the letter of dismissal from Ustica Lines, but for all the sector that revolves around tourism of the smaller islands and for the same inhabitants, for the ordinary supplies and for all that is related to transport. I am referring not only to the Egadi Islands, but also to the Aeolian Islands, to Pantelleria, to Ustica and to Lampedusa itself, that is to say to all these islands and to the thousands and thousands of citizens and to the tens of thousands of tourists who visit them during this period. If the regional government has doubts about what has been done in relation to the previous conventions, it is not possible to assume responsibility for the interruption of the public service. We believe then that the national government has the duty to replace this inefficient and harmful regional government, in guaranteeing a public service such as the connection of the smaller islands with Sicily. We therefore strongly call for the intervention of the national government, from tomorrow, because it is not tolerable even one day of interruption of this service and of suspension from the work of the 400 employees of Ustica Lines. And not even one day is tolerable for the image of Sicily regarding what would be a further fatal blow inflicted on its tourism. Everything is made sure, if it is to be done, but citizens must not be penalized for the doubts and possible inconsistencies of the relations that the Region maintains with the companies. Citizens cannot once again pay for what really is a way of administering and governing that is absolutely intolerable.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u101	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, in the night between 8 and 9 May 1997, eighteen years ago, a flag was erected on the bell tower of St Mark's Square in Venice: it was the flag of the winged lion, symbol of the Serenissima and the Veneto Region. It was not a flag of a political party, but it was and is the flag of all Venetians. It was a demonstration of nine Venetian citizens, known as "the most serene" citizens. These are Giuseppe Segato, Gilberto Buson, Cristian Contin, Flavio Contin, Antonio Barison, Luca Peroni, Moreno Menini, Fausto Face and Andrea Viviani. As a representative of Veneto in this Senate, I would like to recall that story with the words of one of them, Gilberto Buson, of Cartura (Padua), so that you too can understand the meaning of their gesture, which was a gesture not of war but of love for your own people and your own land. I read a few passages from his letter, written on March 18, 1999: When I decided to climb the bell tower of St Mark with the seven Venetian brothers I was free in my mind and heart, no second purpose, opportunism, hope of future benefits or recognitions; no fear of the present and of the consequences. Our flag, the lion of San Marco, has returned to wave free, from the highest point. Together with her I was free and also strong of the strength of the free. The whole world has known that in the Venetian land of men have challenged fantasy and laws to show what for some is a rag but for us it was and is the whole flag. From the bell tower they pulled us down, they stepped on the flag, they tried us and put us in prison; the Venetian people saw and I hope understood (...) After leaving the prison I chose to be on the "rain" to see and understand what is happening, to think, and sometimes dream that being Venetian is not sin. The Italian State is also annoyed by this, they want me to change my mind to consider myself worthy of freedom; I don't care about it, there will be no Italian prison that can deprive me of the freedom to think too. This, Madam President, is the testimony of Gilberto Buson who, with eight other Venetian fellow citizens, eighteen years ago, wanted to show love and suffering for his own land, with an apparently simple gesture, but surely revolutionary, hoisting in St. Mark's Square, in Venice, on a bell tower, a flag, our flag. To Gilberto Buson and to each of the most serene, we senators of the Northern League of the XVII legislature address a message to their family: you con nu, nu conti. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u104	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, the secret draw of the scruters means having in the electoral sections citizens chosen with an impartial, democratic and transparent method; while choosing to name the scruters directly often hides a way to buy favors, but with public money. The 5 Star Movement, with a special request addressed to the various municipal administrations, asked for the selection of the scruters through a random draw in public session. The following members and commissions opposed the impartial, transparent and democratic system of the draw of the scouts: in San Giorgio a Cremano, in the province of Naples, a certain former councillor, a member of the electoral commission, Luigi Gallo, was the only one to oppose it. He came with a list with the names of 54 people and he named them, while fortunately the others of the majority chose the democratic method. Even - and this story is fantastic - in Falciano del Massico, in the province of Caserta, the mayor responds to an activist of the 5 Star Movement, saying that the choice of scouts by draw could result in the cancellation of the nomination report by the electoral commission. We're really into fantasy. I, as I said before, am prepared to make the names and surnames in this House of those who will oppose the democratic method. I also recall that this House approved an amendment which finally restored this possibility, this rule of common sense. But - alas - the decree containing that amendment, which was accepted by the majority, lapsed. I hope that we will be able to insert it again as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u105	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-444.ana.u106	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 7 May, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.02 p.m.
