ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 16 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 11:09 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u8	[[The President stands up and with him the whole House.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the night between Saturday and Sunday, north of Libya, in international waters, there has been the greatest shipwreck in the history of migration since the post-war period. A fishing vessel carrying nearly a thousand immigrants has turned upside down: there are only 28 survivors. Their journey was directed towards Italy and Europe, in search of a better life, as the Supreme Pontiff recalled on Sunday. This tragic incident at sea, yet another, imposes feelings of humanity. The Mediterranean too often becomes a cemetery, which gathers nameless deaths. Their sacrifice must represent a duty for Europe and its institutions, for a serious commitment to tackling and resolving the problem of immigration. In expressing appreciation for the military, the forces of order, the civilians, the many Sicilian citizens who, with generosity, make every effort to rescue, we hope immediate and effective initiatives by the announced international meetings of the next few days. In remembrance of the victims of this tragedy, I call on the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u11	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, today we begin our session with great bitterness and it is with great bitterness that we commemorate the 900 people who died in the Sicily Canal, while trying to reach our coasts; and we also commemorate the 200 deaths of the Rhodes Sea. All these deaths, Mr President, were our brothers. Every time we feel we have hit the bottom, but unfortunately there is always a worse, up to these days, at the greatest massacre of migrants - as he recalled - that the Mediterranean has never known. Every day women, children and unnamed men die, killed not by chance, by the imponderable, but by the cruelty and greed of slave traffickers: this is a crime that is more vile and infamous than one can. Migration has made man's history, there have always been. In the last century, millions of Italians have emigrated to France, Germany, the United States, Canada, Argentina, Brazil, Australia and many other parts of the world, but migrations have never taken on the dimensions of recent years and have never seen so much violence. To the migrations from the poor and hungry South to the rich North, today are added the multiplication of the globalization of travels, that seem to have become easier, and, above all, the escape from the wars and the massacres that bloody much of the African Continent. Italy has done so much to help the hundreds of thousands of migrants from North Africa and only in the first months of 2015 on our coasts have we received over 18,000 refugees. We must be proud of the unlimited self-denial of our rescuers, sailors, forces of order, proud of the solidarity of many Italians, citizens of Sicily, Calabria and Puglia. I have a lot of regard for the senators of the Northern League, but what Italy is doing isn't goodness, it's heroism. Who can think that a problem of this size can be solved with the sole sacrifice of the Italian patrol boats and the citizens of Lampedusa? How can Europe fail to understand that these deaths are the first line of an epochal phenomenon, of millions and millions of desperate people who are not only fleeing from misery and disease, but even before war, massacres, slavery and genocide? And how can Europe fail to understand that this gigantic wave of migration is not just an Italian fact, but directly affects the whole of Europe? It is not true that Europe can do nothing more, it is not true that it can do nothing to help migrants already in their countries, nothing to help them in the sea, nothing to welcome them with dignity. It is true that no country, including Italy, can manage alone the pressure and determination of millions and millions of human beings who choose to leave to flee from torture and certain death; and it is true that only united Europe can move successfully and can do much, much more than anything it has done so far. Years ago, Mr President, Europe came to its roots if we were to say Christians or enlighteners. Today, in the face of Europe's prolonged and cynical short-sightedness and the selfishness of the Member States, we must say that this debate is being overshadowed by hypocrisy. It is in the moment of need and danger that their roots are shown. To be said Christians or to be enlightened and then to assist with indifference to the death at sea of so many desperate for the fear of commitment and sacrifice means to deny their roots and their origins. A Europe that is incapable of tackling the problem of migration and giving itself an effective policy, a Europe that looks on the other side and leaves us alone to deal with a problem that concerns it directly, a Europe that does not try to protect thousands and thousands of human beings from death does not correspond to its history, its culture, nor to its ambitions for the future. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bruno and Schifani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u14	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group supports the condolences expressed by the Democratic Party Group in the face of the largest massacre of migrants in the Mediterranean since the Second World War. A tragedy that arouses horror and dismay and questions our consciences of men before parliamentarians and asks us not to silence the different sensibilities on a crucial issue such as immigration, but to seek all together, yes, the possible ways out of this dramatic emergency before we have to count other victims, before we have to mourn more deaths. I think it is right to open this speech with the words spoken on Sunday by Mr Berlusconi: In the face of this last tragedy, enough is enough with accusations and counterpositions. It is necessary to immediately set up a table among all the protagonists of past and present governments, where everyone can make available their experiences. This is the moment of unity, not of divisions. And in fact, politics has a duty to live up to an epochal issue, which leads millions of people to flee from wars and hunger, an issue to which only the international community can give an adequate response, and instead the European Union has so far washed its hands, while the UN is confirming its disconcerting impotence, with the result that Italy has been left alone to face a greater emergency than you. Forza Italia has always been a responsible opposition and is ready to play its part if the Government decides to act, as it seems, to stop the massacre and slaves who feed it, but in order to do so you must immediately get out of the uncertainty and confusion of the last months. First the Foreign and Defence Ministers practically declared war on Libya, denied in real time by the Premier, then the Minister of the Interior hailed Operation Triton as a great Italian diplomatic success, while the Foreign Minister had to acknowledge the inadequacy of European intervention. The Italian semester passed without the crucial issue of the Dublin Regulation being firmly placed on the table, which would impose on the country of first reception all the burdens relating to asylum seekers. Now the European Union, after yet another massacre, proposes to double the funds for Triton: a drop in the sea, in front of the million migrants massed on the Libyan coasts. But, I repeat, today is not a time for polemics or easy slogans. Joint naval and air operations in the Mediterranean must certainly be strengthened. In particular, we have proposed the naval blockade, but we have been told that it is a device that works only if accompanied by rejections and that this would entail very high risks, since in Libya there is no recognized and authoritative Government. What is certain is that we must stop the market of despair, which produces an annual turnover of 34 billion dollars. Impossible at this moment also the restoration of a humanitarian mission like Mare nostrum, precisely because it would facilitate the criminal activity of those who could use increasingly dilapidated boats, knowing that it would be enough to launch an SOS shortly after the departure to activate the rescues. We must then reason on targeted interventions to destroy the boats and fight the boaters departing from Libya, the only road that can be crossed at this time. Our intelligence is absolutely up to the task, with the possibility, today, of using drones as well. Along with this, however, humanitarian intervention must be undertaken to ensure, to those who have the right, that they have assistance in Africa and reception in Europe, throughout Europe, but not only in Italy. This is why it is time to speed up the project that provides for the creation of at least three refugee camps in Niger, Tunisia and Sudan under the auspices of the UN, where asylum applications can be examined so that the procedure can be initiated with the countries indicated by the applicants. Every other solution today seems unworkable, beginning with the military intervention of land in Libya, a Libya that today has two parliaments, 140 tribes, 230 armed militias beyond, of course, in the presence of ISIS: a failed state, after the unfortunate military intervention Obama-Sarkozy, where political and military chaos reigns and where the areas from which the boats depart are all under the control of the unacknowledged Government of Tripoli tied to Islamists. In short, we are facing - and I shall conclude, President - a very serious humanitarian emergency linked to an equally serious criminal emergency: the first must be resolved, the second must be eradicated, but Italy alone cannot do it, just as the Government cannot do it alone. Our willingness to cooperate is full, in order to prevent, both new innocent victims, and an uncontrolled invasion of migrants, with the consequent risk of terrorist infiltration. Now it is up to the Government to beat a blow, listening to the opposition in Italy and finally asserting the reasons of Italy in Europe, with the hope that the extraordinary summit on Thursday really leads to extraordinary decisions and does not end with the umpteenth postponement to the next massacre. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator Albano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u15	We greet the students and teachers of the Istituto Tecnico Industria "Leonardo Da Vinci" in Viterbo who are attending the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u18	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, in the face of the last incredible number of deaths, perhaps the only thing to do would be to shut up, perhaps it would be the only serious thing to do. However, since we are making this speech and it is easy for it to turn into a hypocritical rhetoric, we should remember what happened a little bit. It was 1996, Christmas night: 300 dead. Lampedusa, last year, two years ago: 366 dead. 700 dead today. Perhaps we should be aware of our responsibility and of the fact that these people come here because we have encouraged, like the West, the exploitation of a number of countries and we went there to wage war by saying that we were bringing peace. I quote, for everyone, an example: the exploitation of Congo for coltan, for that tantalite that people do not know what it is, but it is something that we need for mobile phones. And all the dead for the possession of those resources. We have also made the hypocritical rhetoric, in the House, to think of setting up a day of memory for migrants; that too is hypocritical rhetoric. We have the rules for the right of asylum: the Dublin Regulation (Dublin II), signed in 2003. Silvio Berlusconi and the League were in the government. In 2013 there was the Dublin III Regulation, signed by the Led Government and the PdL. They are now telling us that something must be done; they were before the government, when they signed Dublin III. We presented motions, which were approved by all in the House; but nothing was done (it was December). We were talking about quotas for EU countries, we were talking about realizing points where we could identify people. When people get here, Mr President, six months pass to get their identification. They go and ask the prefect of Trapani how long it takes to identify people: six months. To grant a visa for the right of asylum in EU countries it takes two months; we are two years. Not to mention what immigrants need. I'm Salerno. In that territory there is a place, in Eboli, called San Nicola Varco. In San Nicola Varco there were many immigrants, who took 22 euros for 14 hours of work to collect tomatoes. Did we forget what happened in Rome? Immigrants who are worth more than drugs. And we are told that they cost us 40 euros: but who takes those 40 euros? Who gets it? The scandals there have been. Then you say we're mad at cooperatives. Damn it! With those cooperatives that made the money, we must take it out on them, otherwise what we do in here becomes useless rhetoric and we cannot afford it. And that man - I don't know how to define him, perhaps calling him man is too much - Minister Alfano. Are you kidding me? Does he have the responsibility or doesn't he have the responsibility? What are we talking about? We are talking about the fact that we started Triton: it costs 36 million a year, when the EU budget is 145 billion. To do this, to save lives, we spend 0.02 percent of the budget. Is it worth the lives? Are you kidding me? What are we talking about? Let's talk about this charade of staying here and saying "we're sorry." Are you kidding me? We are told that we must go to Europe. And where has Renzi been for six months? Wasn't he the one who had to tell Europe what we had to do? Are you kidding me? What are we talking about? We can't joke about dead people. It is inconceivable, it is unacceptable. We have to stop making rhetoric. It will be good to start doing something, to act, because it is not possible for people to die. It is incredible what happened; this absurd exploitation we do with these people. Then we must stop saying that we can get everyone in, because this is another exercise of useless rhetoric. And we have to stop saying we're kicking them out with the bombing of the ships. That, too, has been said. Are you kidding me? Italy was a strong, huge, welcoming country; we were - as was said? - good Italian people. Do we remember that they called us "italian good people" or did we become the foam of the crap? What energy do we have, what desire to ensure that this is not a problem? When are we gonna start thinking that we don't have to go and exploit those countries anymore and that we don't have to go bomb there? Maybe we should figure it out. Maybe you've never been to a goddamn country where there's war. Damn it! I don't want to say it again, I've been there and I've seen what it means, damn it! See those poor Christs of children mutilated by anti-personnel mines that we have also produced. But then what rhetoric do we make, what the hell are we talking about? All of you spend a hand on your conscience and try to understand what serious mistakes you have made, otherwise you will continue to be what you are: dead walking. That you are and that you will stay! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u21	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, what we are experiencing these days is a great pain that I believe is common to the international community around a story that now assumes connotations ranging from a mass biblical exodus to a dangerous genocide. That's the truth. In my opinion, we must not underestimate or distract ourselves from what will now, in the imminence of any further landings, touch, if we do not all intervene together, not only our consciences, but the credibility of our international and European order. It is not an illegal immigration, we all know it, but hundreds of thousands - we are talking about millions - of poor unfortunates, poor people fleeing from religious wars, from mass isolations of an ethical-religious character, from territories where the existence of an Islamic fundamentalism founded on shari'a and other, even leads to religious wars against those who are alien to this belief. We are faced with internal conflicts in some countries suffering from instability, the first for all Libya. Yesterday I listened carefully to the reflections of the President-in-Office of the Council when he rightly said that solving the Gaddafi problem - whose dictatorial regime, however, guaranteed at least a dialogue with Libya - after Gaddafi caused an instability that did not allow our country and the European Union to have a serious and valid interlocutor; not that Gaddafi as a dictator was serious and valid, but at least governed the territory and prevented the departure of these delinquent scafists. However, there was an institutional negotiation. Well, the President-in-Office of the Council has rightly stated that, unfortunately, a serious problem (which had to be solved), namely the overthrow of a dictatorship, the international community, first of all Italy, has been faced with another problem: not having a real interlocution and therefore witness the fact that the collector of hundreds of thousands of people who leave Libya and ask for survival in our lands - primarily those of my region - is in the eyes of everyone and is giving rise to mass murders. I am talking about murders because it is a matter of care, of a total lack of attention not so much to Italy (in fact, we have loaded ourselves with the problem) but to an international and European community that has not taken full and in due course the seriousness of this problem. Perhaps these days we are witnessing, and luckily, an uproar of dignity on the part of Europe; a Europe that must realize that when people are talking about asylum seekers, they must not think that this is being asked only of the country in which they land. This asylum must be sought at European level, we must talk about a request for asylum against the European territories that must take this problem seriously and concretely, helping us Italians, frontists against this great exodus, to make sure that we can fight - and this has been done very effectively these days - the delinquency of the scafisti. They were arrested yesterday and others will continue to be arrested. These scavengers are the masters of the death of these poor people, they are the ones who profit from the lives of these people. These boatmen must be prosecuted and condemned and our government, through the Ministry of the Interior, is doing so. It is a choral action of the whole of Europe and of the whole international community, so that in those territories refugee camps can be managed and set up in order to prevent these poor people from leaving in the open sea, asking for help, and risking death even during relief. Let us not forget, in fact, that what happened two days ago happened in a boat that was even going to be helped and not rejected; it was at that moment that that great misfortune was determined. This is the issue that we must address and which we must address in order to say to Europe: that is enough now, it is time to intervene; to say also to our inside, with composure and sense of responsibility, to some political forces: now enough demagogy. Let us try to prove that we are a united country at a time when this almost biblical misfortune is hitting hundreds of thousands of people, who have died and are at risk of dying: children, women, defenceless, locked in the holds. At a time like this, I do not think we can, in pre-election periods, attribute hallucinating faults to a policy like ours, which is doing everything to respect the sacred principles of acceptance and solidarity, which are part of the founding values of democracy and our history. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]] Mr President, perhaps shortly we will be called upon to have a debate in the presence of the Government. We hope to have good answers from the President of the Council and the Ministers for the Interior and Foreign Affairs, not from them, but from their doing at European and international level, because I know that there is a new sensitivity - I hope - on the part of the international community, the UN and the whole of Europe, because now is the time when in this House, with responsibility, on our part, we say: that is enough now. Italy has done and has given so much; it will fight to always save, daily, every minute and every second, a human life; when it has done so, not only will it have done its duty, but it will have respected its own principles, those for which we were born as democracy and of which we are proud. However, it is right, if we believe in Europe, if we want it united and responsible, that Europe itself should play its part and help these poor migrants, these poor people not to die. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Di Biagio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u24	De Cristofaro (Misto-Sal). Mr President, I really believe I can say, on behalf of my Group, that we would have preferred not to have this debate this morning, but, over the past few months, we have been easy prophets of misfortune and misfortune when, in great solitude, in the absolute silence of the parliamentary majority and also of the other oppositions, deaf to what was going on, we denounced, along with someone else, such as the suspension, the interruption of a mission such as that of Mare nostrum and the absolute insufficiency of the Triton Frontex mission would have, unfortunately, determined other massacres in the Mediterranean until today. We have tabled many parliamentary questions over these months, and we have tried, with the voice we have, to point out to this country that, in the face of the tragedy that was and is disrupting the Mediterranean Sea, a substantial, gigantic part of Italian politics turned to the other side. This morning I read the words, splendid from my point of view, of an important Jewish columnist, who wrote in a daily newspaper that the human condition of migrants dying in the waters of the Mediterranean today is in everything and for everything similar to that of the deportees in the heart of Europe seventy years ago: the same is going towards the unknown, humiliated as sub-men. This is exactly what is happening in our sea, and that is exactly what we have said, in fact, too many times isolated over the course of all these months. The words of mourning, rhetoric and even crocodile tears are no longer enough for me. Why was Mare nostrum interrupted? Why has our government succumbed to the lousy propaganda of jackals that has been done over the past few months? It has been told, also in this House, by oppositions - mainly the others: the League, but also the 5 Star Movement - that even Ebola would arrive in our country through the boats of immigrants. This has been told, just read the press review of past months on the Internet: it has been said that Mare nostrum was responsible for the increase in the number of boats leaving Libya, when it is evident that exactly the opposite happened, because this instead was the effect and not the cause of what was happening. Faced with this vulgar propaganda of some beguiling character who interpreted this mode simply to take a few extra votes in the elections - because that was the case - the parliamentary majority would have had to oppose much other attitude. He was supposed to swell his chest and say, "We are not like you and we do not accept this propaganda, but we claim to have built a mission like Mare nostrum, which was actually a response to what was happening." The parliamentary majority, on the other hand, did not manage to put this option in place and to respond to this grim propaganda by imagining another policy, of society, of life and of relationships: it did not make it and it lacked courage. I remember the embarrassment of the Ministers of the Republic, like Alfano, or the President of the Council, when, before that propaganda, instead of replying: Yours is mocking propaganda, we were talking about accounts, numbers, costs and human lives treated exactly as numbers of a budget. This has happened over the last few months and there have been very serious political responsibilities. We can no longer stand these crocodile tears: we want to mark a sidereal distance, we are something else, both from the parliamentary majority and from the other oppositions. We will not talk anymore: today is the last time in this House we are talking about this issue and what is happening in the Mediterranean Sea. We can no longer witness the massacre that is going through the Mediterranean as it was seventy years ago, when Europe turned to the other side and pretended not to see what was happening in front of it, in the heart of the European continent and within European civilization. The same thing is happening. I say this here, as far as we are concerned, the Left Ecology and Freedom, we no longer want to talk about this issue: we want facts and that Europe and Italy also speak. Let me make one final point, Mr President. Nor is it enough to take refuge behind Europe, which, in my opinion, has very serious political responsibilities over what is happening. I think, of course, that we must insist very strongly to restore a European Nostrum Sea, but I also think that Italy must do its part to the full, at least asking to do everything it can to the Navy (heroic, moreover, because over the past months and years it has done extraordinary work, also as led by men with straight backs); we ask its members to fully respect the law of the sea - as they teach us - and to do all our part. We, however, here, the right to speak, after what happened the day before yesterday, have really lost it forever. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and PD Groups and Senator Romano Lucio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u27	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the Independents of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I express a sincere and strong feeling of mourning and human charity. The strongest and most serious feeling that I feel to express today, however, is an unlimited shame towards these victims and their families: men, women, young people, children, whites, blacks, Christians, Muslims, rich and poor, who die while the world is looking and looking at itself. Europe must certainly make Europe, and it is not doing so, at least the Europe in which we have believed; Italy is doing Italy, as it is doing, through the generous commitment of the Navy, the Finance Guard, other police forces, voluntary organizations and municipalities, at least those few that have made themselves available, but Italy is doing more! Italy has a duty to do more, in the meantime because it is necessary to deal with this tragedy in a serious and effective way, otherwise the problems will not only not be solved but will increase more and more, especially those relating to the issues of political asylum. From this point of view, ladies and gentlemen, and in particular, the representative of the Government, it is necessary to speed up the procedures for granting political asylum. If the current committees are not enough, they will increase because we must not add to the tragedy of the sea, the tragedy of bureaucracy and expectation in the face of legitimate expectations. There is no need for political asylum management, but for legal management to seriously assess the conditions for admission for those who have the right to asylum. What is more, relief measures are needed at sea. We should certainly ensure that at least the spirit and manner of Mare nostrum are quickly brought back into the field, with Europe or without Europe. We must ensure that the rescue at sea is effective because we must admit, in the face of a tragedy that causes hundreds and hundreds of deaths such as those that have occurred in recent days, that the present system cannot be regarded as efficient. It is said that resources are lacking: yes, resources are lacking. Then we resize our presence in other areas and in other operational sectors where the Italian commitment is definitely strong but, I must say frankly, not easily understandable. Is there need for more attention to Italy's direct interests and the interests of Italy where they are if not in the Sicily Canal, if not in the Mediterranean Sea, if not in the face of the tragedy that is consumed in the Mediterranean Sea and on our beaches? From this point of view, I believe that tactics and exploitations must be abandoned and effective action must be taken quickly and seriously. International cohesion is necessary, but we cannot repeat the history of this Europe which, in the last century, took responsibility for a delayed action in relation to the tragedies that ripened in its territory. The Italians are all committed to asking Europe to put in place the commitment it must have as a state, as a unitary institutional entity that represents us all. But at least we Italians recover the memory of our history, of our human history of immigration and reception. We must be able to transform our feelings, our experience into right considerations and choices. Today, like yesterday, we Italians must feel like immigrants. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u30	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV)). Mr President, I would like to thank you for your words at the start of our sitting to commemorate the deaths of the Mediterranean Sea. Thank you because I think you have raised the issues that can be discussed this morning. In the meantime, there's a deep grieving. The words of the Holy Father call us to a humanity without borders and without frontiers of States. Then, again, there is a sharing of the Sicilian people in what is happening, which is daily pain and effort, and it is the only aspect that can be recalled at this moment. If Senator De Cristofaro doesn't want to talk about it anymore, if Senator Cioffi thinks he still does statistics and analysis, if other interventions have wanted to recall the responsibilities, well, there is everything, but it is political, it is perspective. It will be political in the noblest sense, but today there are a thousand deaths to be buried, a thousand people who, from the dead, tell us something, and if we do not understand it, we are really deaf and blind, and even our debate is between deaf and blind, among those who do not want to listen and listen. How can we fail to realize that we are faced with a problem that goes beyond the dimension of national policy? We are faced with a problem that is part of those phenomena that humanity in its history has known in other times and that, having lived now in our time, has assumed the dimensions of badness, violence and the inability to face it. In other times Italian migration to the United States of America, Senator Buemi, has also found compatibility with the working needs of that State. Today we are faced with a system that does not find a combination capacity, so we will not find the solution in a short time only if the European community allocates new funds or if the rules of engagement of the naval units will also lead to the sinking of the boats that carry these poor migrants, in order to avoid that they transport more. No, we need something structural; we need to understand the phenomenon as a whole and to put together the two aspects of the problem: on the one hand, the need for bread, work, to grow in peace their family unit and, on the other, the needs of a stabilized society, with its rules, with the so-called Western civilization that must not feel undermined its own rules and its own survival. But is it not the UN that has to intervene to do this? What is the UN for? Why do we pay economic and human support contributions to the UN? There are two continents in this case, Europe and Africa: there is a continent that lives a drama and another that lives another reality. How can you not be interested in that? How can we not do the identification centers in the places of departure so that we can determine the best for those who are entitled? Because this world of ours is not the property of States, but of humanity, and it has always been so. Italian civilization has always watered down these fundamental principles of homo homini, that is, man who looks to man in terms, for those who believe us, of brotherhood and, for those who do not believe us and for those who are secular, of recognized and mutual humanity. How do you propose these reasonings today? President Schifani is right: there will have to be a seat where the Government is committed to what is part of Italy. What is part of Italy at the moment, Mr President, is to give arms, concrete and material aid to those who arrive on our coasts. Sicilians don't make it anymore, they leave their homes at night to go and rescue those who are about to drown in front of the coast. Today we need the Government to make its presence felt from a logistical and operational point of view. Undersecretary, please report to the Government the invitation to participate not only in the state mourning, in the formal representation, in the accessions to the paroleia. Today there is a need to intervene concretely and the government must do so. We need to act rationally and intelligently in international fora, otherwise there really is an objective responsibility in what happens. Once and for all, a foreign policy line is decided on the Libyan fact; one day we hear about armed intervention, another about direct or indirect peace. The only thing that Italy cannot have is an obnoxious foreign policy; it cannot afford not to be a reference in this geographical area, that of the Mediterranean, which is spoken of as strategic. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV) and Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u33	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I believe that beyond your personal and political beliefs, this morning it is difficult not to be bitter and not to be particularly sad about what we have seen in recent days. I am quite convinced, beyond personal and political positions, but also beyond personal beliefs. I have been wondering in these days what we still want to see in the Mediterranean, how many deaths, how many children, how many mothers locked up in a hold of a ship of the sea must die in an inconceivable way, so that the international community and Europe, this Europe to which - I have said this, unfortunately, once again, intervening on the same issue - we also gave superficially the Nobel Peace Prize, finally wake up. We have always said this, even in a decisive and probably unsatisfying way for a part of this House: at the basis of everything, we have been talking for too long about human beings. In this modern society of the 21st century, I find it inconceivable that we can die so a few miles from this Europe. We have very different political convictions, as I said before, than part of this House, but although we do not share them, we would perhaps find it more logical that the international community had the courage at this point to go and pick up these desperate people and not wait a few miles, witnessing unarmed what is happening. It is a human matter, that a modern man, a man who is part of this society, a father of a family cannot fail to think. It's certainly not the time to argue. I agree with what President Schifani said: it is difficult to speak with Libya today, almost impossible, given that there are two governments. But, Mr President, the international community has gone to other countries without asking permission on matters far less noble than the one that aims to save human lives: for oil and other matters far less noble. If the international community, the United Nations and Europe really had the will, serious, determined, firm, human, they would have had to do something already. To my colleague De Cristofaro, who I will certainly not be able to give propaganda lessons, I say that I do not agree that seventy years ago we saw the same thing. I want to recall the words spoken just yesterday, not by me (I am not sufficiently intelligent), but by Erri De Luca, who I understand is not a legist, according to which the difference compared to the genocide of seventy years ago is that then the goods - they are his words - were paid at delivery, and therefore we had the guarantee that it would come - excuse the brutality of the words, which I share - while today the goods are paid at departure and can not care less if it is delivered or not. This is the truth and is the plastic representation of the society of the 21st century and of this international community full of hypocrisy. Some say we'd be propaganda, but that's not propaganda from our point of view. We have loudly shouted how deaf Europe and the international community are and are unable to cope with this humanitarian tragedy, apart from the political position and personal conviction of each one. We are talking about people: at this point it makes little sense to talk about the issue of illegal immigration. Here we are talking about men, women and children - we do not even know how many they are - who drown or are killed daily in our sea, in the sea nostrum. I think this should be the starting point for serious reflection. We certainly don't want to do propaganda today. For a long time we have been well aware of the situation and we know who has great responsibilities: today, those who have these responsibilities must be ashamed of all humanity for what is happening. I say that without my political position, as a father of the family: it is to be ashamed of the situation. So, whoever wants to make propaganda, go ahead. Whoever means that we do propaganda, say so, but we have not done propaganda, but we have always shouted - and we continue to do so - that the international community, Europe and, by the way, our country do absolutely nothing of what a civilized country should do. That is the reality. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u34	He asked to speak, on behalf of the Government, undersecretary Pizzetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u35	Senator Crosio, in reality our country is doing a great deal - more than any other - to behave like a civilized country: of this at least we should give recognition, not only and not so much to the Government, but to the entire national community. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Berger and Ceroni.]] President Gasparri and several colleagues who have spoken have put forward important human and political considerations and words of concern, which have nothing rhetoric or circumstance. These are useful words, which the government makes its own. Among other things, I would really like to thank, on behalf of Italy as a whole, the women and men of the Navy, the Coast Guard, the police forces, the volunteers and the local administrators who are facing with abnegation a huge tragedy, the greatest of our century. [[Applause]] The President-in-Office of the Council said that the hullers are the new slave traffickers: that is exactly what it is. It is not only a statement that somehow gives a media announcement, but it is a political consideration, which calls into question the policies. It is in fact a huge tragedy, which questions the consciences of the citizens and, above all, certainly those of the rulers. Italy has in fact been left alone to face an immigration of enormous proportions, generated by the instability of the Mediterranean area, the failure of the "spring revolutions," the management of human trafficking by a political and ordinary crime. I would like to say that we Westerners are used to dealing with this issue in terms of democracy, but here we are even earlier: fundamental human rights are being questioned in the face of a new barbarism, a new massacre of the innocent. It seems to me that Italy, with competence and honour, has taken responsibility for the management of migratory flows. The fact is - many of those who have spoken are right - that Italy alone is not enough - in fact it has never been enough, but it has also done its part - nor does the current UN action in the area seem sufficient. It is therefore necessary, in order to support what the President of the Republic also said, that Europe has not only a geographical connotation, but also a global policy, a strategic policy. If Europe, on this great issue, does not give signs of vitality, as well as of presence, it is Europe itself that declares its failure. We need not only resources for a border state such as Italy, but we need a common government of the phenomenon and Mediterranean policies. We are now facing the humanitarian emergency, but the emergency is precisely political and strategic and it is this political and strategic emergency that also generates the humanitarian emergency. Well, then, the expressions that have come from various political forces of majority and opposition in this House for much more effective political action that calls Europe into question. These are the questions that the Italian Government will put at the headquarters of the extraordinary European Council which has been convened. Of course, the government will act so that not only demands, not only resources, but active policies come out of that Council, because Europe means not only currency, but also means, and much more, the correspondence of politics to values, the correspondence of politics to a feeling of humanity that at this very moment must guide the action of anyone who governs. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u37	You have the right to do so. What are you going to do about it? AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to warn the Government and the majority in particular that today they have spent great words on this tragedy, that on Thursday, at 3.30 p.m., before Montecitorio, the survivors of this massacre will come and you will be able to meet them in person; so we will all measure the degree of your hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u38	[[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u39	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1818. The rapporteur, Senator Migliavacca, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u40	Mr President, I will be very brief, because the content of the decree-law in our examination is limited and homogeneous. In essence, this decree-law introduces the possibility of celebrating the regional elections after the end of the sixty days following the expiry of the council mandate, in order to allow to match the same regional elections with the municipal ones previewed in these months. As we know, under the pre-existing rules, regional elections should be held by 27 May, while local elections, under Article 1 of Law No 182 of 1991, must be held on a Sunday between 15 April and 15 June. Since it is not possible to identify a suitable voting date before 27 May 2015 - in view of the coincidence of the first or second round with religious or civil holidays or other occasions - the regulatory intervention is aimed at flexibleizing the time frame of the regional elections, in order to realize the condition for the conduct in a combined form of all electoral consultations, i.e. the election day, pursuant to Article 7 of Decree-Law No 98 of 2011. In concrete terms, the extension of the time limits for holding regional elections makes it possible to postpone the vote on Sundays within six days of the end of the regional mandate, thus unifying the regional elections and the first round of municipal elections on Sunday 31 May, with a view to rationalising the elections in a single round and reducing the costs for the administrations concerned. I remember that there are seven regions interested in the renewal of the Presidents and Regional Councils (Veneto, Liguria, Tuscany, Marche, Umbria, Campania and Puglia), while the turn of the local elections will affect 515 municipalities. It was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs whether the date of 31 May was appropriate for participation in the vote, in view of the fact that it is located within a possible holiday bridge. The government has given explanations that seem objective to me: the anticipation of the previous Sunday - on 24 May - is not possible because the Jewish Pentecost occurs, protected by agreements that commit the Italian State, while on Sunday 17 May the national assembly of the alpines will take place and many mayors have asked not to carry out the elections in conjunction with an appointment that attracts hundreds of thousands of people, especially from some areas of the country. Going beyond 31 May would then, in particular for the second round of the municipal elections, pose even greater risks for participation. The date chosen therefore appears to be justified. I conclude by stressing that the first Commission has discussed the use of the instrument of the electoral decree-law. In this regard, an agenda has been approved which, while recognising that the decree-law in question does not present any incompatibility profiles, since it does not concern the electoral system in the strict sense - see in this regard the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 161 of 1995 - contains a reference to the absolute respect of the prohibition deriving from Article 15 (2) (b) of Law No 400 of 1988, which provides that the Government may not, by means of a decree-law, provide for the subjects referred to in the fourth paragraph of Article 72 of the Constitution, including those of the electoral one. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Battista.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u43	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to make a point of order, which I would like to make with the illusion, not that it is adopted, but that my speech may stimulate the reflection of the Government, of my colleagues and of the rapporteur - who enjoys my highest esteem - not only on the decree-law before this branch of Parliament, but also on the electoral law, which is the subject of a simultaneous reading in the Chamber of Deputies. I present this preface because I believe that the decree-law we are discussing is really a piece of crap; it does not come to be a piece of crap, like the one that is attributed to me, but it risks becoming a piece of crap. I am speaking in this way, first of all, about a question of legislative aesthetics: I wonder how we can make a decree-law that, not one-off - and therefore transitoryly, for this occasion - but adds six days to the sixty planned to be able to carry out elections, expressing reference to the Sunday included in the six further days of the elections. It is something that, in my opinion, has little to do with a legislative aesthetic, and it is also a crap on the merits, because the election day is the son of a decree-law that I had the honour to sign and that stated that all the elections would take place, in order to save, on a single day, to be fixed between 15 April and 15 June. Then came the law of stability 2015, which added another two months compared to the end of the regional consiliatures; with this decree-law we go to add another six days. What does that mean? That since March 27 Junta and Regional Councils were no longer able to meet and therefore they could no longer work, but the salary will take him until May 31. Nice savings we've made! I think it is also an anti-sense thing to go and fix the date on 31 May. I'd like to see the face of the genius who thought of staring at it on May 31, with the bridge on June 2nd. If you wanted a date not to favor the influx to the ballot box, the worse there was only August; everything else would have been absolutely better. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]] Let me not then tell you - as the rapporteur said and as it is written in the accompanying report - that there are religious holidays, civil holidays and other great events; yes, but you have also gone to recover my niece's confirmation, rather than the baptism of Candiani's nephew! Any excuse was good to say that we could not vote before 31 May. Then you can't hide behind a finger. We are doing as a political class - I say this to everyone, to one side and to the other - a figure that cannot be defined except by saying a bad word. We are really in front of the tower of Babel. If one comes from outside and looks at the situation within the parties and coalitions, he thinks that in this period we have become really crazy. For example, I'm almost leaving my home. In Veneto, we have our former regional secretary running against our outgoing governor. In Liguria, we have one of the best and strongest candidates who has been investigated not for a bagatellare crime, but for a crime of absolute gravity (if the accusations prove to be justified). In Marche, the candidate for a coalition of a political party is the outgoing governor of the coalition of the opposite party. In Campania, one of the strongest candidates is incandible, because condemned. In Puglia, we have the candidate for a coalition that is a leader of a party who, however, supports another candidate. As for the local elections, in Sicily they make primary for the center-left that are won by one of the center-right. If an observer from outside looked at our country, I think he'd say, "You all go home, but go there very quickly." Then, in order to be there anyway, we also make measures that are unconstitutional for me. This decree-law completely contradicts Article 15 of Law No. 400 of 1988, which is not just any law, but is the law that implements Article 72, fourth paragraph, of the Constitution and says what the Government can do and does not do. We cannot intervene with an urgent decision on electoral matters. It is true that the report - as the rapporteur also points out - mentions a decision by the Constitutional Court which allows us to intervene on the subject of electoral outline and it is true that there are precedents, but all these things have been done in the past after having heard all the political forces and had the unanimity of the whole of Parliament. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and Mixed-SEL Groups.]] I ask the friends of the opposition (I sincerely ask, it is not rhetoric): has any of you been consulted to decide the date of 31 May? I ask those of the majority: did anyone ask you if the date of May 31 was okay? No one has been consulted. So, it's okay for the man to be in charge only, but he can't decide for everyone, also because, if it goes on like this, after the 100 who have put themselves on the embankment in the House and more than 20 who have put themselves on the embankment in the Senate on the electoral law, only he risks being not in charge, only he risks really being in charge. See that this measure, which seems a "decree" to be approved within an hour, a half hour, is extremely dangerous: it is the Trojan horse with which the previous is being created to intervene with a decree-law on the date of implementation of the Italicum law and on its possible extension also to the Senate. Consider such a thing well. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII groups and the Senators Bignami, Blund and Bencini.]] Someone may say that, if you ever think of a decree-law that allows you to change the expression "July 2016" and to extend that law to the Senate, it would be a coup d'état. It's true! But is it not a coup d'état to be faced with three governments since 2012, of which no one has been voted by the people? [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII, M5S and Mixed Groups]] Is it not a coup d'état to replace ten members of a Commission so that we can come to this House with a measure? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni]] Is it not a coup d'état to threaten confidence, not on any decree-law, but on the electoral law? Gentlemen, in front of these things I'm scared. I am frightened to hear someone say that if italicum passes, we go to the vote, and someone else who says that if italicum does not pass, we go to the vote. Already this legislature - it will be because it is the 17th and this has brought him bad luck - was born badly, but it is growing worse. Whether we like it or not, we realize that the driving force of both the legislature and the government has run out. Let's go to the vote before we mess with Italicum. Let's vote with the law out of the Constitutional Council, that is proportional to preferences. Then we'll do the electoral law and constitutional reforms. [[Applause from Senators Arrigoni and Bell.]] Renzi is right when he says he wants an electoral law so that, on the very day of the vote, we know who won and who will go to rule. But he cannot claim to have, on the day of voting for Italicum, the certainty that he will always win the election. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and Mixed Groups and Senator Blundo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u44	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, no more than one representative per group may speak in the debate on the question referred for a preliminary ruling for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u47	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, we shall vote for this preliminary ruling, not so much because of the content of the decree-law, which provides for a six-day extension from the sixty already foreseen regional consiliatures, but because of the considerations just made by Mr Calderoli. First of all this decree-law intervenes in order to change definitively and radically the law that establishes the duration of the regional councils, and not only for an alignment necessary for a first time. This would also have made sense if this type of intervention had only been planned for the first renewal. No: the law is changed and the law will therefore provide that the Regional Councils will be able to remain in office 66 more days after their natural expiry. There is nothing to prevent, therefore, that, in the forthcoming elections to the Regional Councils that are going to vote this year, the scheduled day could again be moved to reach even 15 June or even 15 August, if someone had that will. We should not intervene in electoral matters by decree-law and, if we do so, it should - as has been said - be the result of a unanimous sharing of all the parliamentary groups, movements and parties present in the elections. It is a decree-law which, by its very nature, makes it almost doubtful whether the elections will actually take place on 31 May. In fact, it expires before 31 May and, theoretically - anything can happen from here to the expiry date - it may not be converted. Perhaps an administrative machinery could be set in motion to vote on 31 May, so that a further urgent decree will have to be issued in order to allow the vote, in open violation, therefore, with respect to a non-conversion which instead reflects Parliament's will. These are the prerequisites that the urgent decree on the date of the elections cannot be used, but everything should be done by law and in good time. With the law of stability, passed in December, the deadline for the renewals of the Regional Councils was extended by sixty days, but at that time a date was not already planned? Didn't you know there would be Pentecost and the Alpine gathering? Didn't you know? Why, then, has it not been done directly in the law of stability, with a term of seventy days instead of sixty? Why a decree-law to lengthen by six days? Maybe next year a decree will be issued to lengthen the term of another three days, depending on the convenience of the moment. We shall therefore vote in favour of the preliminary ruling, precisely because of the method which has been followed and which will probably be preparatory to what will happen when the Italicum, unfortunately, should be approved. We'll probably see something like that in the application. Finally, we hope - and I take advantage of my brief speech - that the replacement of ten members of the House's Committee on Constitutional Affairs will give rise to pride in the Senators of the Democratic Party and lead to no such action. As happens in the House, the same situation will probably be repeated in the Senate. But if you really have such a intention, you must have the courage to throw out of the party those who say no, who will not vote according to the majority. You must have this courage, if that is your will. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Malan]] You cannot freeze them by moving them to another Commission and then thaw them and put them back in place in the previous Commission. Too convenient is to keep a majority in this way, moving people who don't think like you in the other Commissions and then putting them back when they can't do any more damage. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u48	Our work is being followed by the teachers and students of the Universal Primary School of Montenero di Bisaccia, in the province of Campobasso, to whom I address the greeting of the Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u51	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Forza Italia has always been in favour of the principle of election day, which, in addition to being a source of savings and an instrument of clarity towards voters, so that, at a single part-session in the year, they can vote and express themselves for the various levels of government, in the various consultations held in that year, should also be a guarantee instrument. Not surprisingly, an English-speaking name has been chosen: the Constitution of the United States, in fact, ensures that, since 1787 (and therefore 230 years), we know when we will vote. In the next presidential elections - for example - we will vote on Tuesday after the first Monday in November 2016. It is not, therefore, an instrument in the hands of the Commission, which makes it pig meat for its comfy, and this is a big difference: a guarantee instrument, on the one hand, and an instrument of convenience, on the other. Here, of course, we have the use of the instrument of convenience, and this is a convenient one which, unfortunately, goes beyond the scope of the measure under consideration, which in itself, in its effect, could also be voted on and, indeed, we are in favour, both for regional and administrative consultations, for the date of 31 May. Why not? In the meantime, nice movements have been made, like the 66-day delay and so on, to go and find the beginning of a bridge that is probably the best condition to induce most citizens not to vote, except then complain with some demagogic pull of the type: Oh, look, they've gone a few to vote. The problem is also the tool. President Calderoli mentioned an extremely important fact: of course, in the past interventions were carried out very vaguely similar to this, but a consultation with all political forces has always been carried out before making the decree-law. And then, with a sense of responsibility and assuming a relationship of civilization and collaboration - and not of arrogance, arrogance and will to establish dangerous precedents - once consulted the political forces, we agreed measures vaguely similar to these, to allow an orderly and convenient electoral consultation for all. The text before us, however, already contains a note announcing that the force is intended. Could it not be done as has been done in all other circumstances, i.e. to change the date for this year? No: we wanted to change forever a norm with a decree-law and, moreover, in a very delicate matter. The regional elections, in fact, for everything else are governed by a regional electoral law: it is the Region that determines whether there are preferences, what kind of colleges there are, whether there is a list or not or whether the candidate President is elected or not, while only the matter of the date remains in the hands of the national level. So one goes to force this rule, when one could very well get the same effect with other instruments. Now, since it is known that some professed constitutionalists are capable of writing any filth, and also the opposite of what they have supported the year or semester before, perhaps under different governments, from here could arise what has already been proposed. One of the most important aspects of the electoral law passed here in the Senate, and now under discussion in the House, is the so-called safeguard clause on the date of entry into force: we happen to be talking about dates, and I stress that. Since we are now accustomed to seeing every shameless force on this matter - and also on others - I would say that it is extremely appropriate to propose not to go further than the examination of the measure. If this proposal were eventually passed - which would mean that the decree falls - the Government could well remedy the situation and, at that point - yes - with a decree-law, consult all political forces, in order to allow the elections to be held in an orderly and appropriate way, and perhaps even in a date chosen in a less malicious way and less aimed at keeping the voters away from the ballot boxes (while our task would be to do the opposite). In this context, given that there are very few opportunities for doing so, I cannot ignore or fail to denounce the very serious fact that is taking place in the other branch of Parliament, where the Party, which, ironically, is called the Democrat, is doing even ten parts of a Commission. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] , taking advantage of that famous majority prize that, when it was claimed by others, was so ugly. Then, in the face of such things, we must be careful: every step is towards the worst. We saw it ninety years ago in our country. We must not wait until we reach the point of no return. Let's start today. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u54	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of the preliminary ruling proposed by Senator Calderoli. It is clear to everyone that, beyond the fact that the decree-law at our examination, at least from the point of view of homogeneity, respects Article 77, in fact we could call it abnormal for at least a very simple reason. Unlike what we would have expected and perhaps could have happened, it introduces a permanent change, in the sense that it adds six more days to the deadline set by the law, which provides that, for the new regional elected bodies, elections will take place no later than sixty days after the end of the five-year period. The decree-law, therefore, extends the time in which regional councils remain in office, but does not do it once, only for these elections, but finally. The other anomaly that I have to subscribe to, and that other speeches have also pointed out, is that honestly it seems really incredible that, throughout the period considered, i.e. until 27 May, we have not been able to find a date to be able to hold the elections. Now, beyond the religious festivities, including those provided for in the agreements - I am thinking of Jewish Pentecost, because I would not like to talk about the Catholic one, since it has never happened that, for this reason, the elections could not be held - I think it is quite presumptuous to even call on the national Alpine assembly, which I find, moreover, to be held in a city where there are no elections. It is equally unusual - and I would like to make this quite clear - that for the first time there has been no consultation with the political forces. In order to establish the date of the elections traditionally, and rightly so, groups and political forces are consulted, because this has always been the case. This time, however, it did not happen. Even in that case, it is clear that he, always and only him, does everything. He decides, alone, that no Sunday is suitable in the period prescribed by law. Frankly, I find all this incredible. On the other hand, in the battles on constitutional reforms and electoral law, here and in the transition to the House - alas - we all have the attention of the House that it is clearly pushing to reduce citizens' participation in the vote. We choose, in fact, the only bridge planned, after that of May 1, in our calendar, and this means encouraging the non-participation in the vote of the citizens, who are already very distrustful and unloved, unfortunately, towards the very instrument of the elections. Obviously, however, someone wants to further encourage not only mistrust, but also the non-exercising of the right to vote. The other frankly anomalous issue relates to the regional electoral system. We all know perfectly well that each region has its own electoral system, and we might even get pissed at it. We will discuss this, and we are already doing so, with regard to gender preference, on which we should, in some way, indicate a general route for all the regions to which, however, they may not adhere. But in this case, on a strictly regional subject, we are actually doing an operation which, as far as I am aware, has certainly not had any kind of passage even with the same Regions. It is clear that there are concerns and it is also clear that the preliminary constitutionality, submitted by Senator Calderoli to this Assembly, is essentially linked to the use of the decree-law in electoral matters. That there is a problem, the rapporteur has admitted it in some way, because it is not by chance that he has reported the debate that has taken place within the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. And it is also no coincidence that the Commission has approved an agenda - it has therefore tried to put its hands forward, having identified precisely in the use of the decree a danger for the future - which engages the Government, when issuing acts by force of law referred to in Article 77 of the Constitution, to the absolute respect of Article 15 of Law No 400 of 1998, which refers to the subjects referred to in the fourth paragraph of Article 72 of the Constitution, namely not to use in electoral matters the instrument of the decree-law. This issue was for the attention of all of us when we discussed constitutional reform and, with regard to the non-elective Senate, of Italicum. In the face of the fact that we did not want to consider our objections, that is, that we were without a functioning electoral law, because the Italicum was made only for a Chamber and, therefore, not to the Constitution in force but to the Constitution in future, there was a hypothesis that the Government could make a decree-law to apply, in the case of election, the Italicum also to the Senate. It is no coincidence that these concerns were highlighted precisely in the adoption of the agenda. There is, therefore, really a profile of constitutionality on this decree-law also from the point of view of the danger of the previous. How could we not be concerned about what is happening to the House in the debate on Italicum? Mr President, you have a long militancy in the Houses of Parliament, between the House and the Senate. I think that we have never, in the past, succeeded in replacing virtually the majority of the PD Group in the House's Committee on Constitutional Affairs by political dissent. After what happened to the Senate, and which has been the subject of a long debate - alas, in fact, the debate, in the Assembly for the Rules of Procedure, among other things, never wanted to conclude - has now come to replace ten members, who represent exactly the majority of the Democratic Party Group in the 1st Chamber Commission. So before that, we started with the fact that we had to discuss electoral law with the opposition and today, instead, what is a minority in the Democratic Party Commission thinks, with tricks and tricks and even with force, that we can impose our own will on our own. See that these are very serious precedents, because it means that a single man in command, a party secretary - in this case he does everything, the President of the Council and also the Parent Company - can with a handful of faithful, making the tour of all the Commissions and with the necessary replacements, approve all the laws he wants, even if the majority of his Group does not agree. What a violation of Article 67 and constitutional principles! Alas, this decree-law risks representing a serious precedent: the Government, in the person of the President of the Council, can put its hands heavy and shameless, through decree-laws, to the electoral law. I'm going back to saying that's exactly what could happen. I appeal in particular to the Senators of Forza Italia, who have convinced someone to vote on that electoral law (not all of them, but the majority of that Group, which I believe today is regretting bitterly): in Italicum, the clause relating to the date, as you can see, can be changed by a decree-law when and how they want, and this regarding the guarantees and respect of the Constitution. That is why we shall be voting in favour of the question referred for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u55	We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Verification of Calderoli quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on draft law No 1818 PRESIDENT. I put the question referred by Senator Calderoli to the vote. It's not approved. [[Senator Santangelo points out that he wants to intervene]] It seems to me that no senator asks for counterproof. [[Senator Crimi's comments.]] AIROLA (M5S). Secretary senators, what are you doing? Sleeping? SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I didn't see you, Senator Santangelo. Please report your request in time. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u56	Mr President, I do not know whether colleagues - many of whom are now distracted - recall my speech on the reform of our Constitution. If they don't remember, I'll do it now. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in order to reassure the minds of those who feared going to the vote immediately after the adoption of the constitutional reform, imagined to insert an amendment that would determine the effectiveness of the reform from a certain date (it seems to me it was 2016). On that occasion I pointed out that there had already been a few precedents - and what we are trying to approve this morning is added to the precedents already adopted - according to which the Government, in the form of an urgent decree, could intervene on the date of the elections. And therefore, that rule, which in some way should have reassured those who feared that, after the adoption of the constitutional reform, the President of the Council would go to the vote, was tamquam non esset, in the sense that it had no relevance, if we consider that the date could be changed at any time, with a decree-law. In the technical-normative analysis of the decree-law under consideration Articles 77 and 122 of the Constitution are recalled and the letter b) of paragraph 2 of Article 15 of Law No 400 of 1988 is omitted, which places an absolute veto on the Government to intervene with the decree of urgency in electoral matters. Article 77 of the Constitution says much more - and the same goes for Article 122 - and it concerns the ineligibility and duration of the elected bodies. These are rules of the Constitution which have nothing to do with the measure under consideration. I would have appreciated it if the government or the offices that assist him in issuing the laws had recalled some precedents of the Constitutional Court, rather than the norms of constitutional and ordinary laws. And I would have appreciated that because if the government wants to legislate in a different way than the Constitutional Charter, it can do so. But, in the illustration of the bill of conversion, it should at least inform us correctly about the regulatory methods and techniques that it has been thought to adopt, in order to arrive at the measure. Today Senator Calderoli asked a question of constitutionality. Well, it is true that this issue has been rejected, but by a majority that fails regardless and does not take into account the technically correct arguments put to its attention. And all this is very serious. What happened this morning - and I say this to my colleagues in the majority, concerned that the adoption of the Constitutional Reform Act, beyond the amendment of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that I recalled, could have put the Government in a position to anticipate or postpone the elections as it sees fit - is proof that what I said was correct, serious and reasonable. It is the truth and represents what lies in the mind of Renzi and his Government. And it was done with cunning, cunning and with the collaboration of authoritative exponents. I must say that I was amazed by the amendment by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, chaired by the excellent President, Mr Finocchiaro. I was amazed that even the intelligence, preparation and authority of a President such as Senator Finocchiaro had bowed to these games of trattoria, which are agreed at port bars, but not in the Senate Chamber. It is clearly said what we want to do, avoiding suggesting colleagues with measures which they themselves know to be ineffective. For my part, regardless of my place in the political force of Forza Italia, as a citizen, as a man and as a lawyer, I refuse to give my consent to a measure that Senator Calderoli is right to call unconstitutional. But even more serious is that it is proof that such an experiment will be repeated and all those who have been reassured by that amendment of the Senate's Committee on Constitutional Affairs will remain - alas - bitterly disappointed. Today they have the opportunity to proclaim the unconstitutionality in order to create, yes, a precedent with which you tell Renzi to be careful because, even if he sets, in the constitutional and electoral law, a date of the elections, that date will not be able to change it. That is why today is the time, with this decree-law, to signal that we are not as foolish as some think we are. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u57	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u58	Mr President, in about two years' time in these classrooms, I have learned one thing: the parties challenge choices when they cannot ride them. Today we are in the situation where the Democratic Party, which is in the government and has a clear majority, at least in the House, does the things for which it would - and has - torn its clothes in previous legislatures, when it was in opposition, and in the face of which the current opposition, especially on the right, is rightly indignant. The 5 Star Movement in this scenario is on the side of truth, anyone who pronounces it and what is the goal for which it is pronounced. Today we cannot ignore the fact that a very dangerous step is being taken towards democracy: it implicitly authorizes a Government to put its hands on electoral law, as well as the fact that it once again proceeds by decree-law on matters that are not urgent. The date of Jewish Pentecost was known, in fact, for a long time, just as the date of the Alpine gathering was known for a long time. And, therefore, if the government wanted to play the part of those who remove the chestnuts from the fire, it had to do it when possible, when it could leave time for us to intervene on this matter by ordinary way, and not to intrude our calendar of measures of own convenience, expropriating ourselves of the possibility of putting hand to this situation. Perhaps, however, the truth to be said - you see - is much more articulated, because we know well that, in the electoral field, anyone intervenes to direct the date and mode of voting to their advantage. We know very well that in Veneto - for example - theoretically the par condicio will only be held in the last period, so the longer the time for voting, the more you have the opportunity to give the newspapers a way to say that it is a two-way race (Moretti-Zaia) and then a three-way race (Moretti-Zaia-Tosi). And you never appoint the 5 Star Movement and you do not give way and right to your candidate President Berti to intervene in the debates and bring the voice of the citizens who, in the recent parliamentary elections, for a quarter voted our Movement. The doubt arises, then, that there is also a furbesque intent behind these dreaded necessities. However, there are many aspects to consider, such as the fact that the enjoyment of a salary by persons likely not to be re-elected is prolonged. I remember, in this regard, that the 5 Star Movement is exactly the opposite, proposing a net change of trend, the reduction of salaries and vitality, even if all this is always a little 'departed. We are opposed to a measure which opens a door for the government to intervene on matters from which it should always remain outside: it opens the possibility that such an intervention will even take place on the political elections, as has been announced and already denounced. We will thus go against the very principle of savings that has been declared, because we would have people who do not work and receive wages, since the activity is now closed. A law which then explicitly or implicitly pursues objectives contrary to those declared is irrational: it cannot once again be offensive to the common sense of voters. The solution is clear: this bill of conversion must go into the basket and the legislative power of Parliament must be restored to the centre of the scene. Another hypocrisy emerges here. We have heard that we are the ones who reject dialogue, while today it is the Government that proves once again, not only not to seek dialogue, but to reject it when it is offered. We have seen it on the electoral law for Parliament; we see it today on the electoral law for regional councils. So, what do you say? Perhaps the time has really come to go home and follow up the voice of the Constitutional Court, which has indicated to us an electoral system that could finally bring back here to the Senate, not of the appointed, not of the people commanded, but of the representatives of the citizens who would probably bring forward these reforms and these measures more rigorously and with greater dignity. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u59	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Migliavacca. Mr MIGLIAVACCA, rapporteur. Mr President, I give up my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government. Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, I also give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u62	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure, I would ask that we do not proceed to the Rules of Procedure for the reasons just put forward by Mr Endrizzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u63	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal not to proceed to the examination of NP1 articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u64	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1.23 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u65	The session is resumed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal not to move on to the discussion of NP1 articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u66	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the bill in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-433.ana.u67	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.24 p.m.
