ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, after checking the quorum. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request was supported) I call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. We note the presence of Senator Bocchino in the Chamber, who was unable to point out his presence. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1934, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting the President of the 7th Permanent Commission, Senator Marcucci, reported on the Commission's work and the general discussion took place. He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u9	Mr President, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment that I am going to table to draft law No 1934. [[Senator Crimi's nodding his desire to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u10	I suspend the sitting and immediately convene the Conference of Leaders. [[The Senators of the M5S Group take off their jacket by showing a black band in the arm and lighting votive lights. The sitting was suspended at 9.39 a.m. and resumed at 10.12 a.m.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u11	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust, which was put by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the text of the draft law on the reform of the national education and training system and delegation for the reordering of existing legislative provisions. For the discussion on confidence, which will begin once the opinion of the Budget Commission has been obtained, 3 hours and 20 minutes were allocated, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The explanations of vote will follow. The call is expected to start around 4 p.m. I therefore suspend the sitting pending the opinion of the Budget Committee. (The sitting was suspended at 10.13 a.m. and resumed at 11.49 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u12	I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Azzollini, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of amendment 1,9000.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u13	Mr President, when I report on the Commission's debate, I will of course consider the issues that have been submitted and then I will also ask the Government for a possible modification of a specific point of the amendment on which it raised the question of trust. Three aspects I would like to stress at the outset: Amendment 1,9000 reproduces - virtually the same way, in the sense that only pure drafting issues change - Amendment 1,1000, which had already been examined by the Commission, which had conditioned its nullity, precludes the adoption, under Article 81 of the Constitution, of a series of amendments which had been proposed in the technical report by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. As you know, in that case, since it is a measure linked to the financial, the acceptance was absolutely relevant for the continuation of the measure. Amendment 1,9000 has transposed all the conditions in a timely manner, so from this point of view, we already have a second requirement of absolute compliance with the text that is being brought to the House today (the first was basically identical to that already seen by the Budget Commission; the second amendment consisted in the acceptance of the conditions laid down in Article 81, proposed by the Budget Commission, on the indication of the technical report). The third question is as follows: the amendment also fully accepts other conditions under Article 81 which the Budget Committee had placed independently of those of the Government. Instead, the Government reproduced paragraph 133, on which there was a request for expunction due to lack of coverage, complete with a coverage exactly consistent with the one already provided for in the previous technical report. Paragraph 133, therefore, was already present and had been the subject of a complaint by the Budget Committee for lack of coverage, but in this text we find it covered, consistently - also in the quantifications - with what had been foreseen in the technical report to amendment 1,1000. Therefore, as far as we are concerned, the text is perfectly satisfactory. On one point, the Government then added: the last period of paragraph 202, which I naturally do not read, but summarize, because it was the subject of a very detailed discussion in the Commission, allows in each financial year - and this is the wording of the relevant text for what I propose below - to allocate any savings from paragraphs 94 to 104 of the law, during the year, to the fund under Article 199. As it is, the rule is not consistent with the accounting principles: in particular, you could foreshadow a sort of ex ante booking of funds compared to the previous ones, which obviously is not allowed by the accounting laws. The issue was the subject of a careful debate, in which all the majority and opposition senators made their comments on the matter. Some of these observations go in the sense of the surpassability of the problem of coherence posed by the paragraph I have just mentioned; others, on the other hand, go in the sense of a non-supervisability of that text. I would remind you, Mr President, that the Commission is not expressing itself on the basis of Article 81 of the Constitution on the maxi-fidious amendment, but to ask whether, on the basis of this debate, the Government, in a point of absolute reference to the issues of financial cover, can recognize or accept (in all, in part or at all) the Commission's observations, and that is why I am referring. For some of my colleagues there is a request for the publication of this paragraph; for others the request is for the maintenance of the same paragraph. Finally, there is the recognition, in the debate, of the specific nature of the problem put to the attention. The school year is not exactly the same as the year of the budget or the calendar year. So, especially in the implementation of the first phase of this measure, you can find yourself at the turn of the year. It is a peculiarity of the school that obliges the competent Ministry to take into account the fact that the school year does not have the same calendarization as the solar year. Therefore, recognizing this specificity, I would like to make a further request. There are three requests made in the Commission, as has already been said: the wording of paragraph 202, its total maintenance and, finally, limiting this possibility only to the first year and thus limiting this problem - the Technical and Financial Audit Committee is mentioned twice in this paragraph and the question will then be evaluated by the technicians - exclusively to the first reference year. In this way, it no longer constitutes a breach of a general principle, since there is recognition of a specific nature and therefore of a single derogation, generated by very rare or not unique requirements, which is a continuation in time exclusively for the transitional phase or the start-up phase of the measure, so as to prevent such an event from becoming a precedent which is invoked in successive measures could hardly be subject by the Budget Commission to the same censorship as it normally operates. In this case, therefore, the principle would be implemented as a derogation generated by a specific issue, which upstream has a particular specificity of the school year, which is different from the calendar year. Therefore, Mr President, I have referred to the three positions set out in the Commission, which go - I repeat - from the total implementation of paragraph 202, to its total maintenance until the request for limitation to the year of initiation only, with the possibility of reassigning any savings in the same year to the fund referred to in paragraph 199. I note that the Commission - this is a further point made also during the debate - understands that the allocation of those funds is essentially directed towards new recruitments, but having the fund referred to in paragraph 199 more general purposes, since it is a clearly derogation from the general principle and clearly limited in time, it is right that - I refer to it because it remains in Parliament's acts - it is also limited to the purpose, which is the one envisaged for the recruitments referred to in paragraphs 94 et seq. This limitation of the aims is guaranteed by the reference paragraphs, which range from 94 to 104. It is not perfectly guaranteed by the destination to the fund referred to in paragraph 199 and, therefore, we leave to the acts that the purpose must also be limited, once reassigned to the fund referred to in paragraph 199 in the course of the year, in order to always be destined to the subparagraphs from 94 to 104. It seems to me that this is a specific understanding of this measure, but that we reiterate in this House so that it remains a precedent of absolute transparency in the debate that has taken place. This was the overall thrust of the debate which was thoroughly examined by each of the Commission's members. I would like to make one final technical point: the technical report that has been submitted to you, Mr President, is absolutely correct because it is not the one referred to in the maxi nal amendment 1,1000. I say this because at a certain point, erroneously, for drafting issues, reference was made to the maxi amendment 1,1000. No, the report correctly refers to the maxi amendment 1,9000 put to its attention. This includes not only all the conditions, as I said at the beginning, but also these two changes. I am talking about the coverage of paragraph 133 and the analysis of paragraph 209, which have been punctually reflected in the technical report. I would like to make a very small remark: for paragraph 209 the technical report had been limited somewhat by the self - I say this because I am in the presence of the Minister of Education and I must try to express myself in a more or less correct way - to report the text, while the report should do something else. I apologise to the kind Minister for the fact that the Budget Committee on the Ministry of Education is rather precise, as you see, but you know that the surplus expenditure of your Ministry exists and we, out of institutional duty, must always be on time to make our observations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u14	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that I recognise the technical basis of the fundamental observation made in the debate in the Commission and which has now been referred to by President Azzollini. Paragraph 202 of the maxi amendment 1,9000 in its first part simply creates the conditions for a monitoring activity to be developed. The first period of paragraph 202 does not present problems with regard to the profile of the establishment of a technical instrument within the Government for the exercise of the monitoring activity. Where does paragraph 202 put itself in a relationship of difficult consistency with the accounting law? In the last period because it lends itself to the critical remark that it regards the fact that, if it is determined in the final and not in the course of the year a saving, according to the law of accounting of course that savings will have to be inserted in the budget to current legislation and, therefore, to have priority destination for the reduction of the debt, without different decision of the law of stability aimed to modify the current legislation that determines the budget to current legislation. Therefore, there is no doubt that the last period, at the time when it refers to an activity that could develop every year in the premises, because the deposited text establishes that, for each exercise, they emerge - if they emerge - through the monitoring activity, possible savings in the implementation of paragraphs 94 to 104, that they are destined to the fund "Good school" seems of course to imply that every year (this is the literal diction) this activity develops. It is clear that, at that point, a general rule of the Accounting Act would not apply in the specific field of education. The Commission's observation is therefore, in my view, to be welcomed. However, in my humble opinion, it cannot go - in any case, this is the position of the Government - until it is determined to ignore the fact that we are in the first application in 2015 and that paragraphs 94 to 104 (those referring to the use of a very large part of the funds brought from the budget to current legislation financed by the reform) imply a complex of activities against which we have made estimates, but are not given to final. Therefore, it is possible and it seems reasonable that, for 2015, a monitoring activity should develop and that it should not happen that, where in practice a saving has actually been achieved, these funds should be taken away - I am now expressing myself in a technical way, but only to make myself understood by those who do not use the "exoteric" language of the Budget Commissions - to the destination of the school to be used for other purposes provided for in the budget. In the following years there will be no need for this rule, because the Ministry of Education will well be able, in the definition of the law of stability, which will soon become only the first part of the bill of budget (which, as we know, will be united according to the strengthened law), to assert in the definition of the law of stability this initiative of its, aimed at maintaining with the education, if it considers it, the resources that it will have obtained in terms of savings. For this reason, Mr President, the Government accepts one of the proposals that President Azzollini said came from the debate in the Commission. Mr President, if you follow me for a moment, I shall take account of the proposal. The last period of paragraph 202 of the maxi amendment states: "in paragraphs 94 to 104, established in each financial year by decree of the Minister of Education, University and Research (...) We accept the proposal made by the President of the Budget Commission, on behalf of an important part of the Commission itself, by amending the text as follows: In the other parts of this paragraph there is no need to introduce changes, because - I repeat - in this way the monitoring activity will develop every year, if you think you want to develop it within the Government, but the possibility of resorting to a procedure in part "derogatory" of the accounting law, as has been said, will be valid only for 2015, in view of the fact that it is the year of departure of this complex administrative activity provided for in paragraphs 94 to 104. In this sense, the Government agrees to modify the text on which it places its trust, according to the requests made by President Azzollini.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u15	Mr Azzollini, does this solution correspond to what was represented in the Budget Committee and by you?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u16	It fits perfectly, Mr President, because it is true that the first part of the paragraph has never been taken into account. So it is correct what has been explained by the Government and we agree perfectly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u17	Therefore, in paragraph 202 of Article 1 of the maxi amendment, the words "ensured in each financial year" are replaced by the words "ensured in the financial year 2015" are replaced by the words "ensured in the financial year 2015." Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u20	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am also speaking on a point of order, although this is more of a point of order than a point of order. As you will have guessed, Mr President, and as my fellow Members will have guessed, the small delay with which the Budget Committee has presented itself in this House is the result of a long debate, as has been pointed out on time by both the President and Minister Morando, whom I thank both for the punctuality and the deepening that they have allowed on this subject. What we have not understood and which we continue not to understand is why the Government wants to create a vulnus to the law of accounting, which could then generate emulatory effects and also lead on other occasions to requests for derogation, when the same law of accounting offers to the Government and the Parliament that controls its initiatives, through the adjustment, the variations and the regulations, the possibility to maintain the objective set, that is to be able to use, for the same destinations, sums possibly not used. In this I must say that there is a minimum of latent confession that some forecasts of the draft law under consideration may not be implemented immediately, beyond the proclamations. The latter, however, is a political aspect, which we will be able to emphasise elsewhere. What we do not understand is why we want to create a vulnus to the law of accounting, while having the tools, within the same law, to achieve the same objective. For this reason, as Mr Azzollini has pointed out on time, we have called for the elimination of the entire second period of paragraph 202, Article 1 of the maxi amendment, in order to maintain a regulation that has so far worked as a garrison of the public accounts. Not that the details offered here are not a further consideration against this eventuality, but certainly open a gap. That is what we have asked for, and that gives me the right, Mr President, to ask you to examine carefully, from a regulatory point of view, the relationship between the amendments on which the question of trust is placed and the opinions of the Budget Commission. We know very well that the Rules of Procedure provide that the Budget Commission should not express any importance under Article 81 of the Constitution on the maxims on which the question of trust is raised. It is true, however, that the abuse of this practice, since 2005, has aroused the attention of Parliament and - by practice, not by regulatory change - since 2005 has become a healthy habit of submitting the maxi amendment on which confidence is placed to the evaluation of the Budget Commission, because it expresses an opinion and not because it exercises its institutional powers of possible censorship under Article 81 of the Constitution. However, I believe that we should consider the continued use of the vote of confidence with the submission of a large amendment, which, as in this case, has 99% of the membership of what has already been examined by the Budget Commission, when it had the power to intervene with censorship under Article 81 of the Constitution. For a small percentage of the text, however, which is the subject of our debate, the Budget Committee could not exercise this power, so we remain on an opinion that the Government can also disregard. I also thank the Government for having accepted it in part; it did not accept our request for the total elimination of the second period, but it accepted the mediation proposal, as always wisely put forward by the President of the Commission. I now turn to you, Mr President, so that the practice established in 2005 can be made - even if in limine mortis of this Senate - further progress, further consolidation by means of a regulatory amendment that states that, in any case, the maxims on which the question of trust arises are entirely subject to the evaluation of the Budget Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. In fact, otherwise, we would lose control of the evaluation under the same Article 81, because any major amendment - and I apologise if perhaps, in expressing my concepts, I repeat myself in some passage - on which the Government then raises the question of trust is not censorable under that article. Who remains the censorship under Article 81 of these texts? The only Head of State? I would say more: not only to the Head of State, because the maxi amendment tabled, being amending the text approved to the House, will return to the House which, according to its Rules, will be able to exercise the censures under Article 81. The Senate is then deprived of this faculty, which instead has the House. Now, while still maintaining the perfect regime of bicameralism - for a few weeks or for a few months, or perhaps for one or two years - this is still a dystonia that I feel I have to detect, so I ask you for an intervention to be corrected. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency takes note of this need and, as part of its proposals for regulatory amendments, will assess it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u23	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, as you will have noticed, this issue has opened up an important scenario and an equally in-depth debate. As always, I would like to thank Deputy Minister Morando for his proverbial correctness and the ability he has had to work with the Budget Committee to find a hypothetical solution. It is a solution shared by the majority of the Commission, while, as far as objections are concerned, the request made in the Commission was for a full expunction of the latter part of paragraph 202, which, in our view, represents a sort of circumvention (like the fiscal one) of the law of stability. This is how Mr Del Barba described it, with a definition that I consider to be perfect, and it is Mr Del Barba himself who then proposes a mediation solution, which is what the Government seems to me to have already intended to accept - as you also said to you, Mr President - but which for us is not sufficiently guarantor or guarantor of that correctness of the budget of which, although in esoteric language, Deputy Minister Morando, the Budget Committees take into account the fact that the State budget is not a cabal and we need to ensure, precisely, that all the possible savings of all the Ministries, of all the expenditure items of which the State budget is composed - for the maximum guarantee that we have given in the constitutional amendment of Article 81 and in that pact that we have guaranteed Europe with respect to those limits that we absolutely have to respect - go down or reduce the indebtedness of the Italian State. There will be savings due to the fact that probably, as we said yesterday, Mr President - I have allowed myself to point out this in my speech, especially in the case of the constitutional prejudices - there is a dispute that is guaranteed by this bad law that takes the name of 'good school', and that dispute will prevent the Government from fully implementing and implementing everything that is foreseen in this maxi amendment of 209 paragraphs, which basically rewrites the law and the little work that the Commission had been able to do. In rewriting this text, obviously the Government already knows that it will not be able to do what it has written or what it is telling of wanting to do and, apart from the problem of litigation - which is also a subject that recurs and that I will allow myself to resume later, in those paragraphs 94 to 104 of this maxi amendment, where it unfolds all the action of the stabilization of that part of precarious ones that wants to stabilize - the fact that those savings are not firmly linked to the stabilization of other precarious ones, but that instead they go to a general fund for institutional and general activities is as suspicious as ever and fills us with concern. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] Already in the past, in fact, as Senator D'Alì said a moment ago, we have seen that savings, written as those envisaged by the Government have been written in his maxi amendment - Mr President, I would like to point out this detail - are spread throughout the duration of the Stability Act, therefore from now on to 2018, but in the projection of the State budget, being recruitment and therefore a subject of the most definitive and stable budgetary activity, they are projected at least to 2025. Did the government mean that any savings from now to 2025 would all be allocated to a fund for institutional and general activities? And why not, instead, those teachers or that school building that are the two real great sufferings of this school? The question therefore raises particular concerns in us, because we are witnessing the attempt to divert resources, which should be devoted to the functioning of the more institutional and important part, that is to say to the teachers and staff of the school, to who knows what other activities. I have nothing to say, I just have to be sure that I know what activities this possible savings will be allocated to. It would be more correct, since you yourself foresee - not already, Madam Minister, because of the oppositions that delayed your work by three days - that you will probably or almost certainly not be able to implement this law. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Bell and Liuzzi.]] You will not be able to enforce this law, but not because of opposition. With your permission, Mr President, a small digression of merit, as well as the budgetary analysis that we did this morning: this text, from that very important law that was to be, has turned into a terrible mess that has caused you to quarrel with half a country, but above all it has caused you to quarrel with the democracy of this country, because every debate and any further deepening on this text have been denied, except in the direction of the Democratic Party! [[Applause from Senators Liuzzi, Bignami, Bell, Giarrusso and Malan.]] Once the solution has been found there, Madam Minister, then you can also pass over and beyond the Senate, the Chamber of Deputies and all those democratic bodies where there is the representation of citizens interested in the school system, which are all, from families to teachers to staff. Above all, however, the functioning of the so-called good school has been the subject of an exclusive debate and deepening of the Democratic Party. I come back to the issues that concern me most, which are related to the unicum. I have never seen a rule written like this in a maxi amendment by the Government and I have never even seen a technical report repeating what the Government has written in its maxi amendment. I therefore wonder what real and serious analysis the State Accounting has been able to make on these 209 paragraphs. I do not want to question anything; I just say that it seems to me that the same method from the leadership of the PD, which bypasses the Aules of the Italian Parliament, is also being followed in the relationship with the Accounting of the State, clearly obliged and forced to copy in full the maxi amendment of the Government. I wonder, rather, if it would not have been better to allocate these possible savings to that litigation fund to which you have allocated only 10 million, where instead you will need many millions of euros. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Bell]] The Italian State will need many millions of euros, as we have already noticed on other events and very recent issues, compared to which all legislative projections and innovations are then punctually censored by the judiciary. However, in this case, the subject of the accounting judiciary concerns us closely. We do not want to assume the responsibility that any savings do not go to the reduction and reduction of the debt of the Italian State. In addition, I would like to remind Deputy Minister Morando (who will remember her well, as I remember her) that the legislation on teachers' pensions did not take into account the school year, but was inspired by the solar year, which applies to everyone. Only in this case do you recognize a specificity to the school sector that we have never recognized, because when it was time to intervene on the tax system, there were no reasons. Despite our proposals, no one wanted to take into account the fact that those teachers' pensions left in different days and months, because their year of service is different from the calendar year. I should like to conclude by reminding all of us that I hope that Senator D'Alì's proposal will be accepted, with all its importance and seriousness, and I propose to you, Mr President, that you activate the Senate for a resolution of your own, in tribute to an enhanced law such as that of accounting, for which, as has also been noted in this case, the opinion of the Budget Commission must be, in order to guarantee the Italian citizens and their public accounts, an enhanced opinion. [[Applause from the CRi Group and the Senators Di Maggio and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u26	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, allow me to thank Senator Azzollini, for, in his effort to find a solution, he referred to a proposal that I made between seriousness and facet, that is to say, to consider the interim budget. Some experience reminded me that the typical example of the interim budget is that of football teams, which runs from June to June, and that of the school can also present this exceptionality. However, having sought a solution does not lift this House or, if I may, Mr President, primarily the presidency of the Senate from the fact that we stress how a decision is being taken that belongs to the power of the President. It follows, therefore, an assumption of responsibility, because the President directs the proceedings and judges on the admissibility of the texts, as stated in the second proposition of Article 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. However, there is another point to which I refer. Since the Rules of the Senate are derived from the Constitution, the last paragraph of Article 81 of the Constitution, which states that the accounting law is a system law, must be considered at this point. So it is a law that cannot be changed except by the absolute majority and cannot be changed, for example, by the law of stability. For absurd, in this case, we are making sure that working on a law that concerns a sector (i.e. the Ministry of Public Institution, therefore a law related to public education), we are looking at the possibility of managing the budget of public education, which, in fact, is denied by the Constitution. There is only one other precedent in the system and it is what is called the "tesoretto" of the Ministry of Defence among those involved in the work. The Ministry of Defence, in fact, has a treasure that comes from the perennial coverage of staff expenditure. At a time when those resources are not used for such coverage, they are used for other purposes. In this way we are building another treasure for the education sector. But while for the Ministry of Defence there are reasons that add to security and defence, for the public education sector this does not seem to exist. At this point, therefore, I would like to ask for your intervention, Mr President, because it is true that we have introduced, not in the Rules of Procedure and in practice, the communication by the President of the Budget Commission which takes place after a debate in the Commission which, precisely because it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, is not even reported, but given that this communication transfers such a debate to the House, it is my duty to urge the President to pay attention at this point to judge the admissibility of the text, he considers - in my humble opinion - the admissibility of an unconstitutional text which contains a rule that is built in violation of the last paragraph of Article 81 concerning the construction of the State budget and, in this case, the budget which will be drawn up without limit by the Ministry of Education. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Does the government representative have anything to add to Senator Ferrara's remarks? Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u27	To respond to Senator Ferrara, who has invited the Presidency to take a position on this matter, I say that by checking paragraph 199 we realize that we are talking about an appropriation which, for 2015, is EUR 83,000. That is the amount of money we are discussing. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). This is an increase. FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). On the basis of a saving of three billion, it can also be one billion euros. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In any case, while respecting the constitutional prerogatives of the Government in the matter of trust, the Presidency can only take note of what the Commission has represented on the basis of the changes shared by the Budget Commission and made to the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u30	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, you seemed to have read my mind when you asked the government if you had anything to say. Frankly, Mr President, I ask the Minister of Education - if we still have a Minister - if she has something to say, because until now we have not even had the opportunity to listen to her reply. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator Mussini]] Yet yesterday there was a debate that lasted until 11 p.m. and we did not have the honour of having the Minister, who is also a senator and would have had the institutional duty to be present to listen to everything the senators said about this bill. On the question raised by President Azzollini's report, the Minister should say many things. Here you accused us of preventing recruitment and today, in that paragraph 202, the evidence emerges once again that it was a lie, because you are already predicting that those assumptions will not be made in part and therefore the savings will flow into the famous fund. Mr President, you should ensure respect for all of us. It has been forced and, it has been wanted to put trust; as usual, it is forced on the accounting laws and on issues that are not generic from the point of view of technical, regarding the respect of the law of accounting and the strange procedures on trust and therefore on the maximendament, but enter the heart of the measure. So, we ask once again that the Minister finally deserves to make us feel his opinion, if he really has worked on this disgusting measure! We, Mr President, are no longer being treated like this, all the more so because there is enormous damage to the world of school! [[The Senators of the Mixed-SEL, Mixed-MovX and Mixed-ILC Groups take off their jackets by performing white t-shirts bearing]] slogan [[They're whistling and waving bells. Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u31	I invite Senators Quaestors to requisition the whistle and t-shirt.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u32	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). It is absolutely unacceptable that the Senate has been virtually cancelled, Mr President, so we cannot express our opinion on Article 81 of the Constitution and we cannot have the honour to listen to the Minister. This is the situation you've reduced us to. The Minister doesn't know that you promised the teachers and the world of school dialogue. This is the situation you've created. The school needs to be listened to, to understand what the needs are. The Minister doesn't even have the courage to say a word. It's a shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u33	Colleagues, if you do not put an end to this gazzar, I shall have to suspend the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u34	Mr President, I understand that the brand of this shirt in this House does not have a great citizenship, but I would like to see from home the "fashion" factor that someone is trying to bring in. In any case, the citizens will hear me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mussini, it's obviously not a brand problem. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). We have heard so much about school in this House. The thing that hurts the most, and that was already born with the definition of good school, is that the message that we want to make pass and consecrate here is the message that has been built over the years. [[The Senators of the M5S Group take off their jacket by showing a black band in the arm and lighting votive lights]] Mr President, I cannot speak like this: I would ask that my time be returned to me... Mr President. Obviously I have to think that someone does not want to participate in the vote of confidence, because, if it continues like this, these will be the consequences. [[The Senators of the LN-Aut Group display signs bearing the inscription: "Bocciato Pinocchio Renzi."]] SANTANGELO (M5S). You suck, Fat! You're doing scum! AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I am here to make Senator Mussini speak: Senator Airola, if you prevent him from calling the order and it is not the first time, but it will not be the last. AIROLA (M5S). I call you to the Rules of Procedure! MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Then I'm talking to the cameras, since there's no video. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mussini, you must address the Presidency, please start speaking. MOLINARI (Mixed). Don't be unfair, President! MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Ma'am, there's no video. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As you know, if you let me intervene, when I speak this happens automatically. (The Senators of the LN-Aut Group display white sheets. Several paper balls are thrown at the center of the hemicycle). MOLINARI (Mixed). Don't be smart! MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). But if you let me talk, I'll talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Speak. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Well: so the idea of the good school, which is that of Renzi and the Democratic Party, is in front of what is evidently bad: and so, you slapped at the same time about 800,000 school workers, plus all the attached and connected, plus all those who have collaborated over time to ensure that the school, despite everything, continues to do its job and its duty. For this, the world of school will thank you, one by one, for this is an individual responsibility. I have heard of many things, such as school leaving, the inability to enter the world of work, but there is a small problem: nobody here addresses the real and profound reasons for school leaving and we must always find a scapegoat. Of course, if there is school leaving, the problem is of the school, which cannot keep the kids at school; there is no problem that families actually have more and more economic difficulties nor that in classes from 30 to 32 students 70 percent are foreigners, which certainly does not constitute their fault, because they are and only, because they come to Italy and need to be helped, if we welcome them into our schools. There is no problem that in classes of 31-34 students there is no possibility of treating them all. No: let's say we reduce the number of students per class per fake, then we charge the school with school leaving. The inability to enter the world of work is not a problem of the school, because our students go abroad, where they take them all - graduates or graduates - with open arms. The problem then is not of the school, but of the world of work, which is not in a position to take our students: it is useless, Senator Giannini, for her to do acts of discouragement, because it is so and the truth is this. The world of work today is in crisis; the famous business world has not invested in innovation, but the screwdriver industries need screwdrivers, not prepared and thinking students. [[Applause from Senator Molinari and the M5S Group.]] Here again, we disassemble this theme that I have heard expressed in really more melancholy and ridiculous tones: the evaluation of teachers. Teachers are not afraid of being evaluated, but politicians certainly are, and in fact they are building an electoral law in which they carefully avoid preference, because they know that a voter, when he was going to write their name on that card, would worry about making an evaluation. We must then find ways to paint the teacher as a subject that, while evaluating, does not want to be evaluated, because it is the politicians who want to evaluate, but not be evaluated. And then they make up electoral law, make up because it's unconstitutional, we all know that. It's rigged because the gentlemen here know they won't even take their neighbor's vows. Even their neighbor wouldn't put their name on the card [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Bell]] and therefore they must have a leader who will properly place them where they will be elected against the will of the voters. A terrifying epilogue this morning, which marks the truth about this bill. This bill poses only problems for an organization that aims to save money. That is the truth to be told. There's no investment on the school. There is a ridiculous round game that already provides for additional savings. That's the truth. Let's not go into detail because the press will always postpone this fake, shameful, sad and squalid image of a government that invests money by not saying instead everything that this government has taken away from the school. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Bell.]] I have heard in this House, from whom this bill has written it, great regret that we are not talking about students. But who had to talk about it? We couldn't touch the ball in this bill. Who was supposed to talk about it? You! You were supposed to talk about the students. You wrote the provision and you excluded them point by point. There's no pedagogy, there's no teaching, there's a bunch of panzane, there's stories. At best the best things present in this bill are those that the school already does and does thanks to the volunteering of the teachers [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Bell, Molinari, Montevecchio, Simeoni and Vacciano]] They put themselves there and things do them. Teachers who are slapped in this way by yesterday's bad school and today's triumphant good school. It's a sleazy proof of lawlessness. I've been wondering who wrote this bill for weeks, maybe months. I want to know if Minister Giannini or someone else wrote it because as a teacher I would like to say: "Go back to school" ==References====External And, as Mr Malan explained yesterday, not only at Italian school but, even more serious, at school to learn a minimum of syntactic coherence. A lousy legislative drafting denounced here by everyone, an infernal mess, written and rewritten and in the rewritings worsened again. [[Comments from Senator Moronese.]] Well, what will all this produce? Chaos, because in September there will be chaos. The school is already fragile enough and when I heard President Renzi say that the school doesn't need resources but more, I prayed to God that they all forgot about the school. Forget it, please. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bignami, Campanella, Molinari, Simeoni and Vacciano]] , leave her alone, let her go on like this, with the good will of the people who work there. Leave the school alone, because the best thing you can do is not put your legs on it: violent legs, helpless legs and lack listening ability. Those paws keep them in here. Do other things. Organize, you have so much to do: the banks, the fakes on the balance sheet. You have so many things to do. In the morning you get up and worry about these things and the school will leave you alone. Please forget about it, let the school do school, because you're incapable [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bignami, Campanella, Molinari, Simeoni and Vacciano]] You don't know what education means. You have no idea what education is. It was a continuous test. If the Commission had been a class, if what happened in the Education Commission had happened in any school room, there would have been the disgust of all, first and foremost of those present in that House. In fact, such an inability to listen at school I have never seen it. In the school there are reciprocal corrections, there are people talking, there are clashes and then we arrive at a synthesis that unfortunately is often more conditioned by the outside world than by the ability of the school. We've all been slapped. There will be appeals, as Senator Bonfrisco rightly said. There will be appeals on everything and the first ones to use the European Court ruling will start. There will be an infinite dispute between these poor school leaders who do not know what comes to their heads. He gets on his head the responsibility to make a wedding with dried figs and to take a stick and look around to find someone to do the things they don't have the money for. That's the truth. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bignami, Bell, Molinari and Vacciano.]] They won't. They will have to find a poor Christ who will have to go and do the Italian course to those 70 students who can't even speak Italian and who will have arrived. They will have to find another poor Christ and convince him to go to the bathroom to accompany the disabled because however the ATA staff have already cut it into the law of stability. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bignami, Bell, Molinari and Vacciano.]] You've already done the cuts. I warn you of one thing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Come to the conclusion. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). It won't be a conclusion. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Bell]] Teachers throughout Italy are the ones who combine the worst salaries and the highest degrees of education. So, be careful because teachers aren't idiots. In September you will find them all and in the polls you will find them all and you will be ashamed. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bignami, Bell, Molinari and Vacciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u35	I greet a delegation from Taiwan, accompanied by the representative of Taipei in Italy, Dr Stanley Kao, who has been able to appreciate our work and has been able to see the liveliness of the House on a subject very much felt in Italy, as is that of school reform. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u38	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I think it would be appropriate to bring the Conference of Leaders together. Some very serious procedural aspects are emerging. It is a measure awaited by the country. I believe that the majority also have reason to work peacefully, because here there is a confusion about specificity, a special fund, about whether it is legitimate to do so and for the doubts that have been raised. We're talking about the school, and to do the hiring, you really have to do it with covers and guarantees. I believe that a moment of order in our work with a Conference of Leaders, which reflects on these matters, would be appropriate. I would therefore like to propose it on behalf of my Group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u39	Senator Gasparri, as you know, the matter of trust absorbs any other matter. When we have concluded with the question of trust, your request may be evaluated.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u41	I would like to thank the representatives of the government who could update us on the investigation into the matter of the votes they went to ask the bosses of Brancaccio. Undersecretary Pharaoh could tell us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These are the people who inspire this bill, because you always have to remember them. Yesterday I started explaining the problem of this bill. I have a studio and an open door. If any of you are going to come and challenge the statements made by our Data Group, we are available because we have not seen anything so far. We heard chatter, but in fact we didn't see anything. Let's move on. Before we speak again of the confidence you have decided to put forward, let us proceed with the maxi mum amendment which has transformed the rapporteur's amendment. In order to keep your fake 100,000 job promise, you've come up with fake hiring. Legal recruitment. This is beautiful. What do you mean by legal recruitment? I hire you, in the sense that I give you, a place, but I don't pay you and I don't even let you work because there are 2012 contest winners that either are hired within three years or they fall. Then, something will be owed to these people who have been told that since they won a competition there is a chair. I'm making up a fake hire. These are the eligible contest winners you want to safeguard with this fake. Then, at this point, you could solve the problem of unemployment in Italy: we all assume in the state budget legally so you will bring unemployment to zero. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Why haven't you thought about it yet? I would have: all hired without money. So unemployment goes to zero. But it's not over. You made up the bonus for the teachers: 500 euros a year, which are not part of the pay. What should the professor do with these 500 euros? In order, she should go to the movies, go to museums, participate in masters and buy books. With 500 euros in a year? Masters? But which ones? The free masters, the ones you do on the Internet. When have we ever seen a serious master's degree cost this amount? Never. We also talk about the possibility of entering a museum. The entrance to the museum is a service that is already established and, therefore, there is no need to charge a ticket to the teacher. If I want to send a teacher to the museum, I'll give him a badge that he shows and enters. The service - I repeat - is already established. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] He becomes only a user. The same applies to the entrance to cinema, exhibitions and any cultural event already constituted. But you don't want to give the teacher the money in his pocket, but you want to give it to him so that they get out right away. There is also the question of books. Do you know about school publishing? There is the concept of "book informant," that is, of the one who presents himself and tells the principal, the school manager and the faculty to buy certain books, so he will give him a computer, exactly as happens with the representatives of the drug. You build conventions with these people and you get out-of-edition books at a virtually symbolic price. Every teacher could bring home a cart. But you don't: you have to send them to the bookstore and charge the books at full price. Brilliant, of course. Let's talk about school now, since you don't know anything about school. You know that school leaders are so desperate that they invented the hours of 50 or 55 minutes. You don't know, do you? The famous 18 hours resumes are transformed into 18 hours from 55 minutes, so the sum of the five minutes per hour becomes an additional mountain hours that the school can use for any other activities, because there is no money. You have made a very long list of extracurricular things that the school should do. But how? Doing five minutes? Exactly as happens with TV shows, which should last an hour, while they actually last 38 minutes and the rest is all advertising, the teacher teaches 38 minutes and the rest is advertising. Is this time used for something else? That's how it's gonna end. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You don't know, do you? You don't even know that? Of course, if you want to try to prove that it is not true, let's talk about it: come with the data in your hand and let's try to talk about it. As far as the subject of the school manager is concerned, in an ideal world, the American school manager is a working thing. However, in an ideal and non-customer world, there are many other things that work, while they don't work here. With this bill you push even more towards the clientelism and disqualification of the teacher, because the more you tighten the noose, the more the teacher will feel desperate. Now you're trying to say that we don't want the teacher to be evaluated. But when? It is fine that there is an evaluation, but it must not be done by the same people who can be evaluated by the evaluation, otherwise a vicious circle is created. You're trying to do this, but of course you're selling it by saying that we don't want teachers to be evaluated and that the lame teacher doesn't want to be evaluated. The design to destroy the school is in fact to disqualify those who work there and those who take advantage of the school. That's what you're doing. Try to prove that it is not true: to you the burden of demonstration. The school disqualification also goes through the disqualification of students, because whenever you say that a teacher can also be evaluated by students, you do not realize that the student is not the one to evaluate. The assessment is carried out by third parties throughout the civilised world. Imagine if the balance sheet of the State or any private company was not certified by a third party certification body. Even those are all entangled, but, in principle, there is a third that certifies. But no, the Italian school is self-evaluated, that is, evaluated by the same people who are in it and by the users of the service. Imagine if the consumer price at the bar was determined by the buyer. The buyer eats a plate, eats whatever and drinks it anyway, and then says that he didn't like it very much and that it was too salty. So, you know what? I'll give you one or two euros, because it's worth the meal. Imagine if something like that happened. You're doing exactly the same thing at school. Students - these poor students - you think they should have a curriculum that long. But in what hours? We talked about a face: the teacher who doesn't have the material time because there aren't enough hours. Of course, the sensible thing would be to have more hours of teaching, more salary and more motivation. Since, however, the key to everything is to take away the money from the school, you cannot make teachers work more paying them more. What are you doing like this? Attract people who look at something else in the school: they look at the mirage of having more free time during the summer and more free time during the year. That way, you always bring her down. There are some people who may have a PhD and come out of universities - not having the chance to do research, because of course you have cut resources even at universities - and who would be perfect to make all their knowledge available to the school. Of course, this is not the case, because they are considered exactly like the others. After all, what is a researcher doing at school, humiliated and teased, who perhaps, when he dares to give up, immediately triggers the recourse to the TAR, why parents naturally do not accept it? With these systems you have also educated parents to the fact that at school they and the students are in charge. The student arrives at home, complains and the parent turns to the school board, which then "fucks" the principal. What's the principal gonna do? At least he'll call the teacher back. These are all stories that already happened, all things of school that every teacher can tell, always and anyway. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Barozzino]] Of course, we continue to deny reality. Speaking of students, in this way reduce their desire to study. If you lower the quality of teaching in class, why does a professor read the newspaper in class and say, "But what do I care? I'm gonna read the paper. Nothing happens to me anyway. For what they give me, what am I supposed to do?" The good student, who wants to learn, adjusts down. And so we keep going down. This is the "medieval" school, which is part of a project to destroy the culture of peoples. This is what you're doing, this way: the lower the level, the more discouraged people, the worse it will go. You are turning the school into a parking lot in a state "babysitting" [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So much so that you want to merge the route 0-3 years with the route 3-6 years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You want to put together the very first childhood, with what used to be called kindergarten. Practically a child is a diaper infant, up to 6 years old. This is your stroke of genius, but just say it. You also boast that you keep the school open even in the afternoon. Apart from the fact that you could not do that, because you keep saying that the current legislation does not have to be spent a cent more, but I remind you that the school is already open in the afternoon: do you not know? If you don't know, we'll tell you now. Extracurricular activities take place throughout the day and often there are activities also on Saturdays. All this is already understood, so there is no need to reform, by spending words, to say that you will do things that are already being done now. Finally, let's talk about the principals. On the contrary, let's talk about the delegations, which is even better, because the juice of this filth is made up of pages and pages of blank delegations entrusted to the government. Once again the juice of your reforms, which are all the same, from the first to the last, is the cutting of funds and then the delegations to the government, to make the worst scumbags at a later time. So I challenge you once again: if you have the courage, make a comparison with each of us and try to prove that what we have said is not true. Let's see if you have the courage to do that. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups and the Mussini and Vacciano senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u43	Would you like to speak early, Senator Candiani? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, when my time comes to speak in this debate, you will see that: be quiet. I'm asking you to talk about the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are talking about something serious and I find it unworthy and unworthy of the Government that the Minister is not present, sitting in his place, but that the Undersecretary is present.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u44	[[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u45	The government is represented.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u46	CANDIANS. Mr President, put forward the prerogatives of representation for this House. There can't be a Undersecretary when it comes to school. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] MIRABELLI (PD) She's gone now! [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u47	Senator Candiani, the Minister is on his way back. It was right here.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u48	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u49	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Candiani for putting the question of the Minister's absence. I have to say that in this morning's debate, since we entered the Chamber, there have been several feelings: disappointment, sadness, but also so much anger, because today we have been faced with a real anti-democratic raid, for what happened this morning, in this House. Like the thieves who sneak into the apartments at night, the minister Boschi, stealthily, taking the floor to the Minister of Education, announced the question of trust, in the disbelief of all of us. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]] This is serious and undemocratic! Also, as a member of the Education Commission, I would have liked to have been able to compare myself with the Government, Mr President. We had a general discussion in the Commission during which the members of the Government listened silently to us, but we were unable to hear their replies. The Minister did not reply. Today we are discussing the most important reform, according to the Government, (since the previous governments - said President Renzi - have cut funds to the school while they finally return them), and does the Minister of Education not intervene? Dear Minister Giannini, you must explain to us the reason for this silence of yours, why it has been so deported. A silence we've noticed all these months. First other members of the government spoke and then you added your press releases: but are you or are you not the owner of this reform project? That is the point, because your silence is unacceptable and it leads us to tell you, Minister, to resign, because what has happened in this House is extremely serious: the lack of respect for Parliament, the total lack of respect. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Bocchino, Molinari, Montevecchi, Mussini and Simeoni.]] We would have liked to have dealt with his thought; we would also have liked to know how he would have responded to our remarks. We have said this: we do not like this reform, but this way of acting is really shameful. Look, ladies and gentlemen, today is a special day because, despite the attempts to censor the communication that President Grasso has put in place this morning, not giving, for example, the words to Senator De Petris who has repeatedly asked for it, the country outside is very interested in what is being discussed in this House because we are talking about the system of public education. We're talking about state school, our future. You can also tell another truth; you may not even confront yourself and go straight ahead - because so much what matters to you are the numbers and the vote - but then you will have to give explanations to the outside. Today there will be a great demonstration. If you really are so convinced of this reform of yours, then go and explain to all those who today at 5 p.m. will manifest your thoughts and good school. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Bocchino, Molinari, Montevecchi, Mussini and Simeoni]] because among those protesters we are sure that there is good school. Today some PD senators said that there is a silent majority of teachers and representatives of the school world that does not say how good and just this reform is. We should then ask ourselves why there is this incredible silence of the supporters of the reform, because this is also important: it is not that on the one hand there are the good and on the other there are the bad guys. [[Applause from Senators Montevecchi and Mussini.]] Montevecchi (M5S). That's it, that's it! PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Where are these supporters? We have not met, yet we have received many. We told you that perhaps we needed to do something serious, to face a serious discussion about stabilisations, because we are happy - beware - that over 100,000 precarious people are being hired, we are not sorry, but we continue to ask what will happen to others. This is the theme. We would also like to understand how, through this bill (of which all times you manage to worsen the implant), you think of protecting the freedom of teaching, about which my T-shirt speaks, which is protected by the Constitution. Are you trying, surreptitiously, to amend the Constitution? Because the Constitution says, for example, that private schools cannot be a burden on the state. In fact, do not add more money, in addition to the 200 million that we denounce in the law of stability every year, but simply with your tax reliefs to private schools you steal money from public school. This is the theme. We find it difficult to understand your choice, because we are faced with a bill that in fact privatises the state school. According to this logic, you announce that it increases resources, but in reality you have put in place a real economic decommitment in terms of real investments in school and in the public education system, which from here to the next twenty years, as we have denounced also in the debate on the DEF, will suffer a further impoverishment, with a further cut of ten billion. We would like to understand how you intend to achieve the well-known objective of raising the expenditure ceiling for the sector to at least 6% of GDP. In our bill of popular initiative for good school, known as LIP, we had set this goal, but we have not quite clear from this bill (this great reform of yours) nor from the commitments made in the DEF and in the laws of stability, as you plan to achieve the target of 6% and to be able to increase investment in education, research, innovation, which are important sectors for the future of a country. I would like to reiterate an appeal that I made yesterday: with this bill, you do so many, from our point of view, in addition to jeopardising the idea of democracy with man only at the command, in addition to the wicked idea, which will cause so much damage, not to respect the judgment of the European Court of Justice, so you think, rather than assume those who have thirty-six continuous months of service in teaching, to compensate them with an economic compensation. To all this, however, we add that you are destroying the system of public school, the system of public education, the widespread system of the future of our country. Once again, perhaps because today there are other senators present in the Democratic Party, I say that since there is no longer this urgency, because recruitments will be made beyond our bill... [[Comments of the Minister Giannini.]] Minister Giannini, do not comment underneath, take the word and explain to us his thought, but do not context so, because this mode is not bearable. If you say that my thinking is not true, do so publicly, but you have renounced this right, Minister, you have renounced the right to reply and this is very serious. Returning to what I was saying earlier, I appeal to all those who in recent years have fought the great battles against the Gelmini and Moratti reforms, who have presented another idea of school and then suddenly changed their minds - I would like to remember that those who make politics have a great moral obligation, that is to be consistent between what they say and what they do [[Applause from Senators Mussini and Simeoni]] : Let's stop and instead try to reason together and build a bill, which I would avoid calling reform, that can return to the school everything that has been taken away not only in economic terms, but in terms of ideas, teaching, true support that can bring back those real reasons for restarting our education system. We do not need, at this moment, a bill that will eventually lead the school from here to the next 20 years, to a tremendous descent. We need exactly the opposite: if we are to follow, for once, the example of Europe, let us go back to investing in those sectors that in other European countries have allowed us to get out of the crisis; let us invest in education, let us increase our salaries to the teachings, for example, and then we can start talking about the future of our country. The privatization of the state public school you have put in place is a danger to the country and is a danger to democracy and in times of crisis of the relationship between citizens and politics, your bill will only contribute to widen this gulf and this will not do good for the democracy of our country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u50	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Giannini, when we arrived at the Renzian gag on the reform, it was obvious that the Premier blackmail of the last few days, who paraphrased a famous sentence by Garibaldi saying: either this law and 100,000 teachers hired, or only 23,000 in the turnover. However, the truth has come to light this morning and in September there will be many fewer recruits. It will not be the death of the government, but with this pseudo-reform launched with an act of empire, with a new slap in Parliament, Renzi digs further the pit of his Executive. As I said yesterday in general debate, I repeat today: the objective of achieving good school - a project described in a dossier full of good intentions, which will remain on paper - has been replaced by the objective of creating an inefficient employment office, which on the one hand proceeds to make mass recruitment without a necessary certification of skills, while on the other hand it is going to worsen the precarious state of many. Thousands of teachers who do not fall into the 100,000 lucky ones will find themselves without the minimum guarantees, that is, in absolute darkness, forced perhaps at over 50 years of age to try their luck with a competition or, more likely, with an appeal. We're not surprised Renzi's choice to wear a gag! After the PD beat at the last local elections and the nightmares of capital mafia, he chose to return to the Renzi 1 model, the decision-making one, the muscular one, in the illusion of returning to the splendour and approval of the first period of government. I repeat: this will never happen! The decline of this Government and, therefore, of Renzi is irreversible, with an increasingly torn PD. This umpteenth confidence humiliates the world of school. Teachers, parents and students will remain unheard. This new confidence is not the signal of an authoritative Premier; it is an authoritarian act, but above all it is a clear signal of weakness and fear towards the public that is beginning to understand your plight, your inability and therefore inadequacy in the leadership of the country. This fear, moreover, is exacerbated by the problem of the suspension of De Luca in Campania, a mess in which you of the PD have thrown yourself, and is confirmed in these hours by the reverse on the reform of the code of the games and that of the land registry. On this last reform, which revises the cadastral annuities and therefore opens the doors to higher taxes, perhaps you have noticed how families and enterprises with IMU and TASI have been massacred in the last 3 years, during which the three governments of the appointed PD traction have brought the draw of the assets from 9,2 billion of 2011 to 25 billion of 2014, not counting the increases that are already being taken this year. This is the truth, other than the dancing of a government that lowered taxes! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The maxi amendment, unlike the President of the 7th Commission, Marcucci, does not contain the summary of the debate in the country and in Parliament, because the debate has been abruptly interrupted. The eight white delegations aren't good. In the North League, it is not well for the Government, without the control of Parliament, in relation to the three-year plan of the training offer, to decide to follow the lines proposed by the World Health Organization on the sexual education of children and students or, even, on the dangerous principles that are spreading more and more in schools, linked to gender culture. Moreover, the power granted to school leaders is excessive, because there is a real risk that this power may be exercised in a distorted way. In fact, there is a lack of a guarantee body to monitor their actions. Managers are not always enlightened people. We also believe that it is wrong to give too much power without specifying the need for the manager himself to have a culture of the distribution of responsibility to his collaborators. There will certainly be situations of isolation if not of opposition between the manager and the staff of the school. The bill, then, thinks too much only of the container, but touches little the substance, that is the student that represents the centrality of the school. Little or nothing says about the approach of didactic work, about how to make school for all the pupils that a teacher has in the class, who have different peculiarities and therefore different needs (e.g. the disabled). The students, with this bill, will be victims, other than protagonists! Renzi, the phenomenon in front of the blackboard in shirt sleeves, presented the reform exalting its innovative aspects: school autonomy and merit. But Renzi ignores that already today, within schools, autonomy can already be exercised. The decree of the President of the Republic No 275 of 1999 already provides the necessary tools for autonomy. The credit can already be encouraged, because even today the system figures can be paid by the school fund. Also in this case there is the legislative decree no. 150 of 2009 of Brunetta that outlines the evaluation of the teachers and the famous meritocracy. What happened to this state law? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Where did she go? Dear Renzi, for a long time many schools have undertaken a path of technological and methodological innovation, because guided by enterprising leaders who have interpreted their role in a proactive and entrepreneurial way. Dear Renzi, the Italian school is therefore not at prehistory as you wanted to imply. You're the one who stayed at prehistory. Today the school - even with its limitations - has valuable elements that derive from the commitment of the school workers from whom, always, depends the success or not of the various reforms that have followed. School workers who have been ignored in this pseudo-reform and therefore in a bad "environmental issue" will have to prepare to apply to the worst! The North League, close to teachers and students, will vote firmly against this obscenity that is embarrassing Minister Giannini, a police minister and now left with the cerino in his hand. [[The Senators of the LN-Aut Group display signs bearing the following words: Who's in charge? guinea fowl]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u52	Please the assistants remove the exposed signs.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u53	Colleagues, please cooperate. This minuet doesn't honor you. [[Senator Airola's comments. Parliamentary assistants remove cartels.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u54	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u55	Mr President, the death of public school. (Senator Puglia exposes two votive lights.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I see that the light of the House is not enough, since you need more light. Please put those lights away. PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, this is the kind of light that this government has put on public school. The death of the public school will take place in a few hours. The sound of yes to trust will be its chant. The publicity of this period that the Government has tried in every way to launch to the country has served no purpose: a very aggressive advertising that already starts from the name: the good school. Obviously, the name, given that, sounds good. Or how nice. It's a good school. Let us go and see internally and it is far from good what this provision contains. But let us start, for example, from the way in which the Government has tried to convince teachers of the goodness of the provision. I take you, dear temps, I solve the problem, but you have to pass the provision as it is. The package, the "pulp" is this: Take her. And today we also knew that the number of recruitments is no longer what was to happen at the time, when this counter-reform was presented in a media way (because it is against the world of school). So, there's been a blackmail on hiring. For our part, we have said: take this provision out of the way. We're just talking about hiring. No. School autonomy has also been mentioned. Also in this case a word is always used that in our unconscious is positive: autonomy. That's nice. I'm autonomous. Instead, what is the school autonomy understood by this Government? PD? It is omnipotence of the manager, who will choose the teachers undisturbed, will determine which teachers to reward and which to kick out of the school. Where's the credit? Where is the quality? Where is freedom? When you're forced to ingratiate the principal, or are you out? All this seems to me to be the export of your clientele and corruptive system from political to school! That's incredible! You want to transform everything according to what you are. Think about it. The principal will receive a thousand and more pressures: take this, he is a friend of mine, hire him. But do we realize what a monster you're donating to our children? I wonder: when you were voted and you became a majority, did you make a pact with the voters and introduce yourself to the electorate, but did this electorate know or did not know who you really were? I don't think so! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then liars, liars from the beginning. Your values have always been trampled on, but this provision is evidence, and the world of school has understood it. Liars and liars. When you talk, for example, about teacher evaluation, you say they don't want to be evaluated. Liars! Who's counting them? Who's counting them? Some external commissions according to their training, which then you also charge? No. The principal evaluates them. Then, however, to apologize, you say that he is not alone and that there is also a committee. And by whom is this committee composed? From the same teachers at the school! I mean, those who, if they're not good, are kicked out of the principal! You're actually building a monster. You didn't attack what you had to attack. On the contrary, you have also financed it: the graduates. Those must be attacked, the graduates who pay the teachers little and nothing, under collective agreements. There the checks must be made and those must be attacked. These diplomas where, if the teacher puts a lower grade, he is also fired. Those must be attacked: the diplomas, that is, some equal schools. You have to attack there. No, you don't: you fund them, no matter what. And then I can think of the Premier's lie, which, as he saw himself attacked during the electoral period, went on TV and on the board wanted to explain to the teachers his reform: "You don't understand anything." I would say then that the Premier, more than anything else, should write to the blackboard, many, indeed, a thousand and more times: "I don't have to tell more lies, I don't have to tell more lies"; indeed, even on the notebook he should write ten pages of "I don't have to tell more lies," dear Renzi. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to repeat myself again in the examination of the maxi nal amendment which, in all respects, follows everything we already know from the previous maxi nal amendment, which in turn echoed the original text. I really wanted to emphasise a slightly more political issue and, for this reason, I address in particular Mrs Minister, representative of the Democratic Party and my colleagues in the Democratic Party, always with the calmness and respect that distinguish me. I would like to make the following reflection: I do not know if you realize, ladies and gentlemen, that in the collective imagination of the school staff of the whole world of the school you are overcoming the profoundly negative image that bears with you the Gelmini reform, now more than six years after its implementation. Already yesterday in my speech I pointed out that it is your responsibility not to address, before starting the speech of a new reform process, the criticalities of that measure of which you yourself have spoken in the election campaign. You can see it from the mobilization that there is in these days in the squares and that there has always been, starting with all the emails and texts that come and there in our mailboxes and on mobile phones. I think you should consider that you are really overcoming in the collective imagination the negativity of the Gelmini reform. From this moment on we will talk about the reform Giannini as something that has gone beyond the reform Gelmini. The counter argument could be: you will get used to this new goddamn thing. In fact, this will not be the case; this provision will open up some wounds that will remain open for a very long time in the school world. To understand this, consider the two most important pillars of this reform: the powers of school leaders and the speech of evaluation. Starting from September this year - and even more so in the next school year - there will be two teachers in the school: those with ownership and those who will instead be in the territorial areas, subject first of all to the direct call of the principal, but also to rules different from those to which colleagues who have ownership are subject. I do not know if you realize this, but this will generate, precisely in the daily life and work of teachers, a wound among colleagues. Members will inevitably consider themselves different and they are different, because the reform says so: those with ownership will be exhausted, in fact, because among the high will suffice to apply for mobility in order to return to the areas once again. Here, the role-playing colleagues who will have this Damocles sword hanging on their heads will bring such frustration to school, in their relations with other colleagues and with other new recruits, which will result in fractures. You are in fact introducing - willing or unwilling, because of course I do not make a demagogic or populist speech about it - an element of competitiveness in a school that until now was accustomed to co-operation and collegiality. You cannot overlook this fact, which is really in danger of making you remain famous for years in negative terms: this will have serious effects even from the point of view of your image outside Parliament. Sometimes I have been with some colleagues to do - almost jokingly, but not too much - simple calculations: in the strike of May 5, 650,000 teachers participated, who perhaps had convinced their consorts, their companions or one of their closest friends to adhere to their positions, and already we are 1.3 million people. Perhaps these teachers had convinced one student out of ten of their reasons and this student will bring in their family the reasons for the protest and we are already at 2,600,000 people. Dear colleagues from the Democratic Party, dear Minister, who are militant in this party, but have you told your President-in-Office that this reform runs the grave risk of making you lose the country's consent, of losing the elections? There are 2,600,000 who make themselves spokesperson of the hashtag : "never again pd". I think you should consider that. In the recent regional elections, it even seems that my calculation has failed, since you have lost two million votes compared to the previous general elections. These are only seven out of twenty regions, a small part of the electorate. My account of 2,600,000 people who somehow oppose what you are doing right now is likely to be severely undersized. I think you should consider that. There's more to consider, too. The provision of the school, like others, but this above all, by virtue of the mobilization, is opening a discussion within you that is radicalizing. I stand up with all due respect in the internal debate of a party that does not belong to me, but I cannot help but consider that there have already been some leaks of your very authoritative representatives, just in conjunction with the provision of good school and that others will probably follow. When I talk about leaks from the party I am an expert on the subject, having my political story also covered this aspect, but I think you should also consider this, the deep rift within you, generated by the provision on good school. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to see all these dissidents who have emerged from various parties, perhaps one day, getting together and undermining your position in Italy right now and influencing the electoral results. This is what has already happened in Liguria, where just one exponent of the outgoing democratic party has drained about 10 percent of the electorate in that region. These are all elements that you should consider. There is a second aspect to this measure which, in my opinion, will remain for years to form a negative image of the reform. That's the aspect of the evaluation. You say teachers don't like to be evaluated and that they're protesting about it. This is absolutely not true because teachers are the first to say that an evaluation is needed. Reading the draft law as it is the maxi amendment tabled in this House, I wonder if at this point you really want this assessment and not the teachers. Paragraph 82 states that "the school manager can identify the scope of the staff of autonomy up to 10 percent of teachers who assist him in activities of organizational and didactic support of the school institution." They are the famous collaborators, the 10% that the principal chooses. When we talk about the evaluation committee, within the framework of the criteria that will be used for the evaluation of the merit of the teaching staff, we read in point c) of paragraph 2 of article 13 of the bill: "of the responsibilities assumed in the organizational and didactic coordination". These are the same responsibilities as those of the school manager. The risk is that these 200 million that you have allocated to the evaluation, even with this good will to evaluate the teachers, will end only and exclusively to 10% of the employees of the school manager because this is what you wrote. That's the criterion you used. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that we are in Italy and in every community, physiologically, there are envyes; it already happens now compared to the teachers who collaborate with the principal. It is normal: every human community has these feelings, but you are institutionalizing the fact that the 200 million of the teacher's assessment will almost exclusively end up in the de facto award ceremony of the school executives' collaborators. Here's the fracture. This is the competitiveness that you are entering into the world of school. You really risk going back to history like those who have launched a truly pejorative discipline compared to the Gelmini reform that you yourself, as a leftist party, have always said you want to fight. The name Gelmini will inevitably be replaced by the name of Giannini and this fracture, Madam Minister, will not be healed shortly, but will remain in the history of the school for several years, ending up losing the consent that you received in the last election. Think about it, colleagues. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group and Senator Campanella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u58	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u59	Mr President, we are speaking with strange rhetoric of the school in this House which, as is often the case, is quite absent. I'd like to use the few minutes I've been allowed to thank the government. I would like to thank him dearly and sincerely, starting from the words I heard Senator Tocci utter yesterday, when he said that at first he had started with this bill and that then the Premier had said that he would stop for a moment and summon the general states of the school to try to reason on the subject. I want to thank him for doing that. We also want to thank him because we have always heard Senator Tocci remind everyone in this House that it was the Democratic Party that blocked the debate in the Commission. So we must also thank the majority. How many thanks we have to make! We must also thank the Government for our 37th trust. This is the thirty-seventh time that the Government puts trust in a measure and, considering the months of this Government's establishment, this means that it has been done so many times. Once again, this Parliament has been exonerated from its function and has suffered the violence of the executive commanded by the tyrant Renzi. But let's face it: is he really a tyrant or, perhaps, is he just a small fish that you think is shark? Is it your eyes that deform its size? As we say in Campania, it is a "pisciettiello." We have to thank the government for officially celebrating the funeral of the public school today. My children - I have two children, one four and one two years old - will have a worse school and a system in which private schools will prevail over public school. If there will be good schools and bad schools it will be thanks to you. Thank you. Thank you, moreover, for crushing all the colleges where free teachers could discuss the teaching activity, while we preferred a school on the corporate level, where we will have the super principals who will have the education of all our children. 13:43 (Followed by CIOFFI). I come from Campania, where there are often some logics of exchange and strange favoritisms (these are known things, which we all know). I can already imagine what favoritisms can be applied in this sense, perhaps against teachers who do not want to be true, against those teachers who are not nice, perhaps because they teach things they do not like. Maybe we'll provide some teachers who, you know, might be more fascinating for the principal on duty? Men or women, nothing changes. We get chills. On the skin of the precarious and by means of the usual occupational blackmail, you want to make this thing pass good, which is not good, but it just sucks. Finally, we must say thanks to the parliamentary majority - we will see it later, perhaps - that it embraces the teachers, the students and the parents here, saying that the school is a free and public (the usual things and the usual rhetoric); then, here, inside the Palace, we sit well and nailed to the usual armchairs, to arrive at the end of the legislature. You know this sucks, too. I repeat: you know that too. So you want to put your backs on for a second? Mr President, I shall conclude. We're not talking about responsibility, because we're making school meat for slaughter. This is not a responsibility: this is irresponsibility and selfishness and we should be ashamed of it. So when we go to vote, Let's remember that. Like all the spokesmen of the 5 Star Movement, they are close to the teachers who are out here, manifesting and protesting: it is natural and there is no need to say it. We wanted to get them into the Senate, so you could look them in the face, but there are security rules that stopped it. You are protected by the Palace, you, men and women, completely detached from these realities. We cannot stand in it and, of course, we will never vote for this trust. But let's remember this: let's not say that we do this out of a sense of responsibility, because it's not true. Now's the time to kick the fuck out! If you have them, then show us! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u60	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u61	Mr President, if there is one thing that really strikes in this sad affair that is taking place in this semi-empty Chamber, in which one of the most significant and important issues for our country, its democracy and its social state, is precisely the sidereal distance - Minister, let me say - between the representation of this history and reality. When the Renzi Government was born, with the reforms that, one after the other, have been put on the field, you have given the representation of the need to intervene, in order to favor an element of modernity. You said that it was necessary to make the country live in a more modern way than in the past, that it had to become an integral part of a new European mechanism and, therefore, you founded your political rise on the fact that it had to be totally changed towards the last few years. But this is the representation, the propaganda, the story, the fake narrative of what happened. Then there is the reality, which is never as far away as this time from the narration that you have put on the field and this is true once again for the theme of the school, just as for the great reforms we have dealt with during these months: the jobs act, the constitutional reform and the electoral law. There's nothing modern about what you're proposing. There is a return to the past, even to the period before the great idea of creating mass school in this country. Before, there was only school for some. Minister, before 1960 and 1962, in Italy the school was not for everyone. From the sixties onwards the great idea was born, which made the Italian Republic great, at least on this side, that is the idea of mass schooling. Think of the verse of a very beautiful song between the end of the sixties and the beginning of the seventies entitled "Contess," which was sung in many Italian squares, which said: The worker also wants the son doctor. It was exactly what happened in Italy of those years, in which the feudal and nineteenth-century idea of a backward country had finally been overcome, closed within its fears, its insecurities and its backwardness: finally, modernity was being presented to Italy. This was the case in the 1960s and 1970s and, for so long, for the worker it was possible to dream and actually have a son who went to school, to university and became a doctor. What has happened in the last 20 years? Is it true or is it not true that there has been a reversal of a resounding trend? Let's go see the data on the students who have graduated and specialized over the last few years, see if this trend has not reversed dramatically and if, today, just as in the past, it happens that the worker can no longer afford to have a son doctor. We will see that another time it happens, as in the past, that the worker's son also becomes a worker - if that's okay - and that the doctor's son, instead, becomes a doctor. I say this because you should have taken a serious assessment of what has happened over the last 15 years. When I was a kid, I started taking care of school exactly when, in student and university movements, we saw the thread that was slowly forming. The reforms of these years have, unfortunately, had a profound thread, very clear and very dry, from 1990 onwards, up to the Gelmini reform, which was the apex of a certain mechanism, of the idea that around the word, however beautiful - autonomy - there was something else hidden. And then you found out what autonomy meant corporateization, privatisation. Find out what autonomy meant by "A" and "B" school, exactly as it happened in many territories of our country. When you run to take over the government of the country and become Prime Minister within a few weeks, climbing to power as you haven't seen in years, and building everything around an idea, around the slogan of the "change to", but then the verse you really have to change it. And if you don't change it, then you're more guilty than the others. You, Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, and you, Minister Giannini, and you, Government of the Italian Republic, have a very serious responsibility: on this issue, which is the center of democracy of this country, not only have you not changed towards, but you have gone exactly in the wrong direction of recent years. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senators Bocchino, Bignami, Mussini and Simeoni.]] You were conservative when you were supposed to be innovators. But there is nothing innovative in your political proposal; nothing innovative in trying again, in contempt of our Constitution, to give money to private schools; in giving more powers to the principals and above all in the basic idea, which is why we will fight this reform to the end, and not just in here. The basic idea is that, once again, as has been the case over the last fifteen years, free knowledge must be adapted to the needs of the market and profit. That's the point. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] This is the aspect on which the political battle will continue, and our opposition will continue. There's nothing new about the story you've told. On the contrary, there is the typical representation of the two years of government: a reality that goes on in a way and a representation of reality that offers a mystification of what is happening. But we think, Minister, that over the last few weeks, finally, something is crumbling. The truth is unraveling, because - fortunately - lies have short legs. And I think when we talk about this in six months' time, about how you treated public school reform in our country, you must have really regretted doing things this way. The school is like Russia in Italy: remember how the generals went to break in the countryside of Russia? The school is like Russia. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and the Senators Bocchino, Campanella, Mussini, Bignami and Casaletto]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u62	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u63	Mr President, today is a day of mourning for this country. With this vote of confidence, we kill the Italian public and democratic school as we have known it until today. They killed her because they don't want thinking adults, conscious adults; adults who have developed the capacity of critical thinking, that is adults who can evaluate Parliament and parliamentary work. They want to continue to have lobotomized adults, as they have tried to do with political and cultural propaganda in the media of this country, the media of regime that, even today, cover the nefariousness of this reform, making it look like one that will improve the school. But that is not the case, and we are shouting it in the parliamentary classrooms with great power and with great force. The public school dies, but instead the private equal - listen, citizens! - is in excellent health, because Renzi continues to put money in the private peer school. The model he wants to bring to this country is that of an increasingly poorer public school that will have to rest more and more on the legs of the private, and in fact private funding enters in mass into the school and will dictate laws within the school. They want to dictate the law on what will be the teaching, the pedagogy, because they want to create a basin of labor at low prices, with precarious employment contracts and, therefore, a mass blackmailable, no longer free to protest. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Europe is asking for this, with a 1995 document. For once we were coming late and it took Renzi to put the turbo where it wasn't needed. The JP Morgan asks, because the Constitutions of sovereign national states are not good for JP Morgan. It wants to lighten the Constitutions and, therefore, it is doing a favor to the Europe of banks and bankers. Confindustria, Retempresa, TreeLLLe are doing a favor, because this reform displeases everyone - the world of school, students, parents - play with their lives, but satisfies the center-right. This reform is the Berlusconi 2.0 reform. It's not Renzi's reform. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We will have a school that will bring about and produce inequalities - I said this yesterday, but I come back to it - because producing inequalities, not giving everyone equal opportunities is an attack on the Constitution and citizens must know that. It is playing with the lives of teachers, students and school leaders themselves. Let us not say that school leaders are happy with this reform, because that is not true, and we heard it during the hearings. This, too, therefore, is a rolling lie, because they don't like this reform either. But instead we come to what would be the school of the 5 Star Movement, the school that would want "the" school. The 5 Star Movement, together with the other oppositions, makes itself spokesperson for the world of the school, whose voice was not heard by the minister Giannini. Perhaps, Minister, the world of school did not infarct its own speeches and instances of a sufficient number of English terms? Perhaps you would have understood more the instances of the school if we had started talking about stakeholders or upgrading? Perhaps the message would have been better, since you say that, with this reform, you also want to enhance and strengthen the study of the Italian language and help foreign children learn it faster. But you're the one who uses an English term every three times two? Fuffa, Minister, fuffa, because a linguist who cares about the Italian language uses the Italian language in all its richness. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The school that would like the world of school, as Senator Mussini said, is the school of now. It's not your school. The school of now is already an innovative school, because we already have many examples of innovation that go on despite you instead of taking those examples and putting them into the good school, you want to frustrate them. There is the institute "Ettore Majorana" in Brindisi; there are other institutes where new educational models are carried out, where school benches have been abandoned and there are circular tables where children can collaborate and participate also in the creation of educational content to be circulated in the school; where the children are encouraged to experiment, to elaborate, to exploit their own intelligences, to develop critical thinking precisely in the investigation, research and elaboration. All this, however, is not in this reform, because you, Minister, have been concerned about being Renzi's arm, the arm of the Europe of banks and JP Morgan. She's under spell, she's the stone convivial in the school reform affair. And I feel sorry for myself, and I hope this spell melts soon. I hope I can hear from your mouth a few words, not intelligent words, but a few words. Say something, not even something left, but say something! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Why are you paying attention to school? As Calamandrei said, turning subjects into citizens is a miracle that only school can do. With the decree-law unlocks Italy you have made our country a land of conquest of foreign investors without scruples, of drills, without more constraints for the beauty of our landscape, of our artistic heritage. It will go over everything in the name of economic interests. With the jobs act you created a world of precarious. With the school reform you brought the precarious into the school. You lacked this piece to destroy the Constitution because - as Calamandrei said - the school is a constitutional organ, like the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate and the President of the Republic, and attacking the school today means attacking a constitutional organ. Therefore, I conclude my speech with an appeal to a guarantor, who is not the one who sits in the place of Senator Calderoli, and he is not the President of the Senate, because he is even deafer than you. Today I am addressing the President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella, even higher, to make his voice heard to the world of school and to this Parliament. The President of the Republic was Minister of Education and in 1989 he was in charge of the first national conference on school, which discussed renewal, reform and the issue of the autonomy of school institutions. President Mattarella, make your voice heard, because the country needs it so badly right now. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups and the Senators Casaletto, Mussini and Campanella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u64	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u65	Mr President, it is before everyone's eyes that the toy has broken. You were lied to where - I say it self-critically - as opposition forces we were unable to do so, that is, on the occasion of the measures you have taken for over two years to this side, all based on the same conception, philosophy, of what you now call good school. We had not succeeded in doing so with the Constitution you trampled on, with the law on easy layoffs on the night of the jobs act, with the abolition of the Provinces, which abolished only democracy, affected work and services. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] That's all you did, but we, like all oppositions, couldn't make him understand. Yes, the world of school has taught you a lesson, because the extraordinary teachers of this country are giving you a lesson. And the relationship between the elected and the electorate has turned around: we are the instruments through which they can make their voices heard and argue. And even if on this occasion you have not allowed us, it has passed into the country, and it is clear to all, the dangerous content of this bill. You can still stop, even if as a force of opposition we may be happy that you are going to crash. This is not the case, because first of all we care about this country and the architrave that has been holding since the mid-seventies, through mass schooling: yes, it was a powerful reform, which allowed even the weakest classes to enter the training system and reverse otherwise established paths. You want to re-present and reproduce class cages, to do an unconstitutional school with respect to the system not only private, but also public and state. You work for an A-grade school and a B-grade school - it's clear to everyone - and with a caesarist imprint, worrying. There was talk of principal-mayor. Maybe he was mayor. At least someone elects the mayor. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] Here the principal is a prefect, at best, and we open up to mechanisms of blackmail and clientelism, in a country where we are not strangers to dramatic events. Last night - as has been mentioned - until almost midnight, there were only oppositions in this House. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] Of all the newspapers and televisions that always send images and look from the hole in the lock, not one published the images of hours and hours in which only we were present, and we talked to each other. And when there was some sporadic intervention of the majority, it was only us who listened to him; even when someone in the majority made a very critical intervention he was absolutely alone. Even those critical interventions of the majority lied to you. They said that we could follow another path and come to other conclusions, to a decree that would secure women and men who, in an extraordinary way, have been working for years within the school system to try to keep it with the indispensable and necessary quality. You've made a wonderful word, "reform," something that gives a thrill behind your back. Using the word "reform" you have caused cultural damage. We talk about school: in the collective imagination, for forty years, millions of women and men linked improvement, rights, dignity, working conditions, study and dignified life to that word. Now there's a thrill when you say that word. But you're still in time. And I turn to those who are not convinced, because here it is understood who of the majority is convinced. But it was also understood that there are senators and senators who are absolutely not convinced. That is also understood. So rather than going under the Presidency to give confidence, try to raise it and be consistent. This is not rhetoric: on these occasions history gives to those who are committed to defending the rights of the weakest the possibility of making a choice. There is no land in the middle: one can only stand on one side or the other. You still have hours to stop this mess from becoming law. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and LN-Aut Groups and Senators Bignami, Campanella, Liuzzi and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u66	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u67	Mr President, I will make a small speech trying not to overlap with what my colleagues have already said. I will try to say something clever, but I do not worry too much because, in case I did not, I would be in full agreement with the government text. The first point I would like to make is political. Surely this government is a bad student, who has learned nothing of the lesson Parliament gave the government last week. Last week, although in a somewhat quiet Chamber, we passed a delegation law that we consider essential for the country, which is the reform of the procurement code. Apart from the substance of this important measure, however, it is the method that matters. There was, in fact, a demonstration by Parliament that, if it were in a position to work peacefully, without suffering an invasion of the ground by the government, without having a government that shows the muscles and that it does absolutely not take into account Parliament's important and political action, it does well. Last week we told the government that he had prepared an obscene text. We canceled it, rewrote it and handed it over to the Deputy Minister, who should have brought it to the Prime Minister, hoping you could do your homework, study it, and then maybe we'd talk about it in September. But with the attitude you have had on this equally important provision, which is that of the school, we cannot but say that you are dumb. You haven't learned anything. You're bad students in political order. But this is not surprising, because it is the method, it is the direction of this Government: majority blows and choices not shared, and in this case, not only from Parliament, but from the rest of the country. It is a unilateral measure which, even in its essence, says absolutely nothing. Then there is one thing that leaves bitterness in my mouth, and I say so quietly, because of the administrative experience I have, as many of my colleagues in this House have. I come from a peripheral region, from a mountain region, and those who have made the administrator in those realities know how many sacrifices we have had to put on the field in the last twenty years to ensure that the mountain schools remain open, as garrison of the territory and a fundamental culture throughout the country, and not only from us. And this result has been achieved with great commitment and with great sacrifices, in economic and programming order. But this is a world that does not belong to you. It's a world that doesn't belong to this government. Already it did not belong to the Monti Government, which was the seed, the germ, the line of thought of forgetting the suburbs, the local authorities and what they did also for the school. You've been through this. I have not heard a strong position, an important position, and not only for our students, but also for our territories. If it were up to you, probably, there would be an acceleration in the depopulation of the outskirts and valleys: it means you didn't understand anything. On the other hand, the mother of all pigs, the Delrio law, also here, is the starting point of a vision diametrically opposed to what we have. You have the idea that everything needs to be centralized, and the outskirts, with their peculiarities, matter nothing. Instead, you have not understood that this country, in the years of its existence, has made its diversity its peculiarity and its added value. I would also like to speak to ministers who have not even managed a condominium, and we do not waste time. There are others, however, like the Prime Minister himself, who also have important administrative experiences at the local level, but probably when you enter a certain mechanism, you forget everything and you scourge the territory. And this is studied in a scientific way, because it means being servants of a thought that should not belong to our country. You have destroyed the local authorities, even taking away from the people the possibility of expressing their thoughts in the electoral booth. You pretended to delete provinces that you didn't cancel and created delusions with Delrio, as far as those realities are concerned, politically and administratively. We have returned to the old methods that characterized the politics of our country before the citizen could express himself freely, when the mayors were chosen within a room and, too often, there was the useful idiot who made himself available. With your thoughts we have returned to this: if we had stopped exclusively to the question of the Provinces, you would have only made a disaster, but it has an avalanche effect, because the thought that you have put and you are putting on the field politically is the same on the school. You don't care about the outskirts or how many sacrifices have been made - even by your wise administrators - to preserve the possibility of having mountain schools as a garrison of the territory, at almost 2,000 meters. Imagine what it's like to keep a school open at 2,000 meters? If this Parliament had been serious, as is the case in other Alpine regions, it would have lost two or three hours alone and exclusively to talk about suburban schools in a serious way. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Bignami.]] And read the shorthand accounts of certain debates held in other parliaments: what is done for mountain farming, is done for mountain school. Do you realize that we are slaughter our territory in a mincer that does not speak Italian, but probably German? It's a disaster for our country. But I am convinced of one thing: probably, if we were in a classroom, we would not be the bullies of the school. You are the bullies of the school, you and yours - how can I define it? - Fonzie. We are the good and you are the bad, once again, and not because we are right, but because we have another approach with our people and our territories. You guys don't give a damn about peripheral territories. You have another political end, so you're not even postponed, but failed to sound yet again. You and Fonzie are dumb! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Bignami and Campanella. The Senators of the LN-Aut Group exhibit signs with a picture of the President of the Council and scream: "Out of the bullies from the school".]] Go, donkeys! Fonzie-bullo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Today's graffiti day. Senator Crosio, surrender. I believe that if there is a record in the display of cartels, today we are beating it at every level for several points. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while I heard my fellow Members speak, I wondered whether there had ever been a doctor among our Presidents of the Council. Why a doctor? Because a fundamental principle of medicine, one of the first to teach, is primum non nocere. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] First of all, don't harm the patient. I have just spoken to a colleague from the Democratic Party, who has correctly told me that governing is difficult. It is true: governing is difficult because among a thousand instances, a thousand needs, a thousand wills, one must find a synthesis and the more the topic on which one intends to intervene is articulated and complicated, the more the synthesis is complex. That's why governing is something that is weak, weary. But first of all, in this very difficult art, we must keep that principle in mind: first of all, do no more damage. And there's a way. It takes a great deal of patience. He wants to listen to us. It takes understanding and it takes time. This government did not want to give it to itself, it did not give it to Parliament and it did not want to give it to it. It's a figure of this government, it's a characteristic trait. You have to hurry. We're in a hurry. The rush, however, usually serves to cut the knots, does not help to loosen them And cut one knot after another then reduces the rope in conditions of unservability. This is what the current government is doing. And the first rope that is destroying is the connection with one's own electorate - I refer above all to the Democratic Party - which not only no longer understands it, no longer understands what their elected ones are doing, but also understands that their elected ones are following a new path, another one indicated by the party at the time of the elections, another one that has led them to vote for that party for so long. I am convinced of the good faith of many of my colleagues who believe that this government is a sort of last resort, a kind of mattress that prevents drowning. Know that mats - it is an experience that I have experienced, but that many have lived - if there is power, they take you far away and do not allow you to return to shore. And this government is making so many bad choices. Yesterday I went down to the Cinque Lune square to talk to some protesters and something happened to me that had not happened to me for a very long time, since I participated in the union: a protester asked if I thought that this trust would pass and, in front of my answer, that was that it was very likely to pass, it burst to cry. Attention to a passage, colleagues: you, with this law, are really affecting people's lives. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] Whatever you intend to do, that primum nocere must be a broker to be repeated often. When you make a long journey, in fact, you can happen to lose your course, to start turning around. I know that you are linked to general budgetary policies, to the fact that there is basically no money and that the budget stands for a miracle of accounting fantasy. I also know that you should be brave enough to make important choices in Europe, and not just stir up a hypothetical rebellion that will never come. But what I invite you to do, on this occasion and for those waiting for us in the coming weeks, is to take into account the fact that choices like the one you are doing now - placing, among other things, trust in a complex measure, which deals with a complex reality - hurt the country. All this will necessarily have returns and are not good for you. Take this into account, especially from a point of view: they are not acceptable returns for many, many people. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Bocchino, Casaletto and Vacciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u69	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u70	Mr President, with the approval which I fear will take place in this House and which will then be ratified in the House - it must be done quickly, rather than well - the school will largely be based on a law of 209 paragraphs, among which it will be difficult to guide even the most equipped officials, school leaders and provincial leaders. This is because, in order to buy time, you cannot ask for confidence for each article, less than discuss the proposed amendments on each article. We give children, young people and students a great lesson: we must do things badly in order to work little, so as not to risk discussing them. And it's exactly the opposite of what you have to teach at school. At school you have to teach that it takes time. Not at all the courses last for years, otherwise you could do school courses for elementary school in a week, for middle school in three days, for high school in another five days and then you do university. If you go so fast, if you approve the school law in 48 hours, why should you spend five years learning the things you teach in elementary school? We have to make a hurry and we have a large amendment, the biggest difference to the text is that, instead of being divided into 26 articles, it is only one article, in 209 paragraphs. There are no changes, although they were suggested by the amendments, as far as I know. We cannot even see the amendments: at the moment there is a volume in this House which refers only to the sub-amendments that have been rushed into the Commission on the maxi amendment. And only a long reading would allow us to understand whether the maxi mum amendment tabled in this House is the same as it was presented in the Commission. However, it does not matter because it was not possible to examine it either in the Commission or in this House. Nothing on the garrisons. I repeat: it is good that there is some figure who takes responsibility for the leadership of the State. I am in favour of the direct election of the President of the Republic, which combines, to a large extent, and with due counterweights, the power of the current President of the Republic and of the current President of the Council (not as exercised today, without counterweight). And, therefore, I cannot be prejudiced against a strong figure of principal. However, first of all, the President of the Republic, as well as the mayor and the President of the Region, is elected; not so for the president of the Metropolitan City, which, thanks to you, you can no longer choose and so, by right you do not understand well what, it is also mayor of millions of inhabitants who cannot vote for it, even if they want to. The others, for now, are still eligible. Instead the principal doesn't; there's a contest and then some rankings, so the principal happens at that school there. Once he is in that school, he chooses who can teach in that school and who should teach elsewhere. I remind my colleagues that there are not only big cities; there are not only Milan, Rome, Turin or Naples, there are also small cities. It's not just... If you don't teach in this high school, you'll teach in that other high school; if you don't teach in that middle school, you'll teach in that other middle school, making two more bus stops, the reality of Italy is above all that of small centres. This means that those who will be chosen by the principals first will all have the chairs in the same place, while then there will be the broken chairs. This is an economically unacceptable reality, because a lot is spent in the car; in fact the schools are so distant or, however, the times are such that they do not allow to use the public means, so one must make the tour of the Province by car in order to be able to touch all the offices. It's an acceptable reality if you do it for a year or two and then the rankings lead you to a better situation. Here, however, a situation of this kind can happen to you from one day to the next, on the basis of a decision of the principal, who does not answer anyone, suffers no consequence of his eventual ruinous decisions and chooses the totally arbitrary way. The prediction that he must write the reasons is laughable: every day teachers are obliged to write dozens and dozens of lines to motivate things that should not be motivated. They have to write that the student has shown a logical, analytical ability... and blah blah blah. All of this is then finally summed up in the vote: 7, 6, 8, 5 or whatever it is. What a difficulty it is to say: "I chose that teacher there because his profile and his teaching experiences" - they follow sproloqui, of which this law is also full, that most people do not understand and that usually mean nothing - "better fit the profile and the plan of the training offered in this school"? That's it, that's it. I - and certainly not just myself, but also many others - have proposed corrections, improvements or even the deletion of this type of discipline, but we cannot talk about it, because we have to go on like this. The same principal, felt - his goodness - the evaluation committee, will also decide who to give the prizes for the so-called merit, that is, the merit of pleasure to the principal. Of course, good garrisons will be fine, but if the garrisons are good, why should teachers be bad? Then why do we need merit? Everyone should be good. If all principals are good, there's no need for anything. Small problem: it can happen that the principals are not good, as it can happen that the government there are people who are not good; that is why a Parliament is needed to control it. It may happen that there is someone in Parliament who is not well; that is why there is a need for so many parties. But not here, it takes only one person, not chosen by anyone. So we have this situation unchanged and indisputable. I have ten minutes, Mr. President. I see the light on the microphone is already flashing, and I think we're a little early. I'd like to say a few words, to use the three minutes I still have.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u71	Go ahead, Senator Malan.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u72	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to talk about what became paragraph 16, the paragraph gender. Mr President, I know that others will also talk about this, but I only want to refer to one thing. I read a statement referring to the Minister's commitment to the application of paragraph 16 on education in the prevention of gender violence and all discrimination. A note from the Minister was announced, which the agencies do not report at the moment. Already on an agenda, little is heard; but here neither can an agenda be presented, because trust has been placed; least of all the private statements - by 'private' I mean non-public - of a group of very respectable senators towards the Minister. The point is that this paragraph, where we talk about education against all discrimination, must be put in parallel with the document: National strategy for preventing and combating discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity developed by UNAR (National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office). This strategy is contained in a document that is not made by a private body, but bears the stamp of the Italian Republic, as the Department of Equal Opportunities and the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. This is a plan for 2013-2015, so it is in force and is, alas, often applied in schools. In this document there is an extremely clear explanation that so-called gender education is already being done today and, even more so, when there is this paragraph. The government must withdraw this ignoble document, which is also made against the law because the UNAR should deal with ethnic and racial discrimination and I do not understand that people of homosexual orientation are either a people, a race or a religion. Here are some things addressed to the school: there is a whole chapter on the education-education axis. It is said that LGBT themes find marginal spaces in classrooms and that their role in school should be strengthened. It is said that it is desirable to integrate and update LGBT issues into school curricula and promote non-stereotyped information and communication, starting with nursery schools and in children's schools and for all children. The recognition of training credits is required. In particular, training should cover: the development of sexual identity in the teenager; affective-sexual education; knowledge of new family realities; (promoting as a family what the Constitution says is not such). Reference is also made to the launch of cooperation agreements on training at local level between regional and provincial school offices, local authorities and LGBT associations. There is also talk of the enhancement of the expertise of LGBT associations on new social realities, the integration of anti-discrimination subjects, i.e. LGBT, into educational realities. In this paragraph 16 we talk about discrimination and this document of the Italian Republic says that this is how anti-discrimination policy is done. Finally, regarding the accreditation of LGBT structures, on page 41 of this document there is a paragraph entitled "Governance tools" - Italian cannot be used - in which it is said that in the national working group that collaborated in the drafting of this document there is the homosexual cultural circle "Mario Mieli" (Mario Mieli). He was a young man, because he died young, intellectual, homosexual militant, who wrote, among other things: "We revolutionary faggots" - this is written by one of the circles that participates in the formation of schools - "we know how to see in the child (...) the human being potentially free. We, yes, can love children. We can desire them erotically responding to their desire for Eros, we can grasp with face and open arms the intoxicating sensuality that deep, we can make love with them. Is this what you want to do in schools? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u73	Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u74	Mr President, I have asked to speak in this House on a personal basis in order to make some assessments of the measure that we are going to fire today. This is a series of evaluations that we have already had the opportunity to make both to the Government and to the rapporteurs previously, some of which have been totally unheard of. As these are important issues, I would like to leave a trace of some reflections. Firstly, I would like to express great appreciation to this Government for giving priority to the subject of the school or, better, the education and education of the younger generations. It is a subject that has always been too distracted in the past and therefore this choice is absolutely acceptable. Personally, I say that sooner or later we expect the government to put the issue of health protection among its priorities, which is a little too often forgotten. Secondly, I consider it absolutely welcome that this country is finally trying to put its finger on the problem of the many precarious people. We have even been wandered by the European Union for not having done before, when we could begin to do (I say many years ago), the measures that are only now beginning to be done, even if in ways that may not always seem totally acceptable. Thirdly, I think it is absolutely welcome that the so-called Gelmini reform should take place; it is absolutely acceptable and it is important that this Government should do so. Finally, this measure - fortunately, I say - was first improved by the House of Deputies and then further improved by the Senate in the version we are discussing today. However, I still have a lot of bitterness and I consider the measure that we are still discussing today to be inadequate. For this reason, I would like to leave only a few thoughts aloud and with much humility. The measure is inadequate for at least three major reasons, which I summarize. Firstly, the measure perpetuates the trend, which should be interrupted, but which - unfortunately - has been continuing for at least twenty years, neglecting the quality of the legislative production of this country. We continue to produce so many laws and done quite badly. It is not a matter of aesthetics, but of content, because bad laws produce bad effects and in many cases we are now realizing, after years, how much they produce. This aspect cannot be overlooked. I ask the Government to pay attention to the quality of legislative production, which, even in this measure, is not what I would have liked. Secondly, this provision is the result of a working method that has many flaws and has shown all its weaknesses, which we cannot underestimate, especially when we are part of a majority, (of which I too am a part). I wish these flaws were overcome. It is not a question of the number of meetings, the number of people listened to or, as I have heard, the number of hours of meetings: it is a question of the result of listening. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Casaletto]] When you listen to people and even those who live on their own skin problems, you have to be able to draw the consequences. They should not simply be listened to - or, better, heard - but they should have the consequences. Finally, the third point is that of content. I do not want to enter into all the contents of this provision; there are so many and some, as I said, are appreciable. I am speaking only of one aspect, which we have followed more in the Health Commission and which, in theory, is very welcome: I am referring to the attention given to the right to education of children with disabilities. Unfortunately, although they were shared by everyone (by the Government, the rapporteur and the Commission), we have not managed, for strange reasons, to introduce the improved amendments into the maxi amendment. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, De Petris and Casaletto]] I would like to stress this point, because it concerns children who are at the heart of all of us - I think so - and it is therefore good that the procedures and rules are well written. [[Call the president back.]] One more minute, Mr. President. I would like to ask the Government to reflect on these issues, because improvements cannot be shared and then not made for strange procedural reasons. I will conclude because I do not want to take any more time from this House. Despite these criticisms, which are extremely important, today, with much pain, I have decided not to weaken my vote of confidence in the government, also because we cannot distinguish the vote of confidence in the government from the vote on the measure. So I don't want to break my vote of confidence because we need a government in this country. I ask you, however, to reflect on the many criticisms that have been made to you, because we cannot go on like this. I hope that this Parliament - indeed, this Senate, which is still in its power, even if at risk of liquidation - will be respected in the future and that it will be possible to discuss more and concretely, with results, such important measures. You can always make mistakes in proposing changes, but when you don't have counter-arguments then it means that you have to welcome them and you can't neglect them. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Candiani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u75	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the five minutes of my speech are, too, without additional burdens for the State. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Casaletto. Laughter.]] Mr President, it is useless to repeat that this trust is a gag, it is useless to repeat that you in the government, you majority could have done a real reform of the school. A real reform was potentially possible: that's what makes me rage and that's what really makes minorities unleash, including me: the fact that this could have been possible. How? It is very simple, President Marcucci: with other speakers. What to say - I mention only some of them and do not offend others - of Senators Tocci, Mineo and Zavoli, characterized by an intellectual honesty and an indisputable dialectics and recognized by all, that with their experience and ability to dialogue - and not to "monologare" - would have been, yes, able to create a masterpiece. That's what you didn't want, my dear Renzipoleone: a masterpiece! Of course, there wouldn't have been all the gifts in the masterpiece to your non-public schools. In a masterpiece you would take care of the last, as Senator Dirindin said before me. With a masterpiece, you wouldn't have taken the graces of the garrisons. In a masterpiece you wouldn't have centralized powers into one person, feeding the logic of favoritism. You wouldn't have created social injustices in a masterpiece. In a masterpiece you would have guaranteed resources for educators and free transport of disabled people. In a masterpiece you would have assigned the teachers to support the pupils from the first day of school and would have guaranteed trained and specialized support teachers. It would have been a masterpiece, if I had hired not only 100,000 teachers, but everyone the school needed and had the qualifications to be hired. I will stop for a moment with this list, to try to make you understand, by arm, the danger of the principal's power. You have given the principal a will and in a country where there is the mafia, a principal, in some places in Italy, will not be able to say more than no to certain teachers children of mafias. I stop here because I only have five minutes, but the list of masterpieces would be plentiful, if not unlimited. So you could have offered us more flexible people, who with more democratic methods and greater listening ability, would not have brought us here, in this situation. The only positive element, which I can consider to be a small victory for Pirro, was the approval in the Chamber of Deputies of an amendment of mine on the continuity of teaching and others involving the training of ATA staff and principals on certain principles of fundamental pedagogy. In the process of this reform, therefore, dialogue has been lacking. The dialogue comes from listening and here there was no dialogue, but only an execution of orders. In the Commission, we have only heard from the rapporteur repetitions of slogans and mantras. I have never heard elaborate, consequential and convergence-oriented reasonings about a shared synthesis. In the parliamentary classrooms and on television I have always heard the usual phrases repeated in art, without ever leaving the track. This is not the exercise of dialectic: I am sorry President Marcucci, choosing this rapporteur did not want the dialectic, he did not want to risk. This is not democracy, because democracy is exercised in the confrontation. You, Mr Marcucci, preferred an obedience-oriented rapporteur over rapporteurs with experience and ability to mediate, listen and synthesize. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Obedience, on the other hand, has done it as a mistress, and has chosen a rapporteur who is too obedient and servile, prone to a system that is not democratic. [[Recalls of the President]] I hope at least now that you have the flagship of all this effort and you earn the Ministry. It was not democratic to come to this House without a rapporteur, but this could only be an effect of his choice. In the end I believe - and I will remain convinced of this - that perhaps it was not even your choice, my dear President Marcucci, but once again an empire coming from above; you know that I am grateful to you for the fine words expressed towards me...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u77	Senator, that's okay. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Wait, ma'am, I'll finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have already added time to what was available. There are rules to respect. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). ...and I think you're a victim of the system. I apologise, but here we must return to democracy; the real one, because we are in a democratic Republic and we have not the power but the duty to exercise our rights in full freedom of conscience...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u78	[[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u79	Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u80	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). The last sentence, Mr President; I am actually finished. Don't discriminate too. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't do them; we delay everyone's time but within a certain limit. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). So, I don't want to hear to my right hand people being the victim because you could actually do this masterpiece, but, for all these reasons, my dear Renzi-Napoleone, the school will be your Waterloo. [[Applause from Senators Vacciano and Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u81	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u82	Mr President, this draft school law is not breathed into real reform. It is not legitimate to expect from a maneuver, which is manifesting destabilizing, controversial and full of unknowns, a truly innovative original projection on a model of society, the Italian and European, which, even if it is illegitimate to imagine, from here to a few decades, wanting to combine the Italian tradition of teaching with the sensible research of novelty (can glimpse the future?). Instead we still perceive in the article of law the acre smell of the ashes of the past and the wedges of the present. In short, there is the devious political maneuver, a lot of tactics and the strategy of wanting to overcome the political, social and economic currentity of the country for the simple taste of bringing home any result, the more roboating, disruptive on the media level, in compliance with that rule of information that in itself is a deregulation: for good and evil, as long as you talk about it. That's what we're at today. We come to this simple and mortifying conclusion. Mortifying to the Senate that fails adequately to get the Commission responsible, the 7th, to work on the key legislation which is the subject of education and training. Mortifying to the Government, which deprives the majority of an arengo in which the different sensibilities of a still mass party, such as the PD, can and must find suitable spaces for free debate. Mortifying to oppositions which, although naturally divided, as in the parliamentary manual, are not put in a position to express perplexities, reflections and pro-active capacity through a normal activity of collation, comparison and integration that is constituted by the amendments. Is it possible for a reform law to be created without amendment by that branch of the Italian Parliament, which is the Senate, which has already been the subject of an involutional process by the Renzi Government and the impoverishment of powers and authority? Yesterday, when I spoke in general debate, I brought to the attention of the House a key step in the thinking of the President of the Council, caught in a party meeting as he spoke as secretary. Renzi clearly wished, a few days ago, to be able to skip even the amending passage of the bill n. 1934 to Palazzo Madama, to see approved the reform as well as exit from the Chamber of Deputies. Here is explained the tracching in the Commission, here are the internal oppositions to his party, that even on the school - alive god - some reflection could have done, some reason to disagree on the general layout of the law would have manifested it, not to mention the always desirable contribution of minorities who, in the various political and cultural declinations, would have manifested legitimate ambitions to amend and correct this law which, in its noble nature, being destined to our young people and families in fearful expectation of a better tomorrow, would have deserved - as they deserve - a participatory crowd, a political platform of inclusion and overcoming the fences. And we are at the request of trust from this Government, so all that could have been of the reform will not be. The Renzi Executive clears its law and throws the key into the bilge of trust and resorts to the Pirandellian assumption that reads: This is how it is if you feel. Is it crawling authoritarianism or, much more prosaically, power drunkenness? Provincialism enjoying the weakness of the system? Senator Idem, in her speech yesterday, with her own calmness (I would say Olympic), wisely placed her attention on the depth of view of this bill, in her opinion. I want to respond to you, knowing that I am doing so also to the large number of Members who, like Josefa, are confident of the potential of this measure. Does the Senator Idem already see the prerequisites for a training that concretely serves our young people for jobs and occupations that we do not know how to imagine today, in social scenarios that we cannot foreshadow? It is therefore prudent to ask questions about the future and try to decipher it, but it would be a merely speculative practice, until interrogating the stars, the intention of a political class that claims to itself the power to determine the future, the possibility of conditioning it to the realization of a better tomorrow for all. Today we would not be here, unarmed and disconcerted, if the Government and its majority had chosen to include the most defenceless, the most marginalized by the reform, the immobilized, the third bands of the ranking when exhausted, the approximately 6,000 eligible in the 2012 competition. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] This Government lacks - there is no doubt - the ear: stakeholders, school workers, the world of professions, researchers from the world of knowledge and school skills remain unheard of. Parliament and the country - alas - were aware of the government's hypoacusia when the electoral law was launched, the passages of Senate reform and the farcesome abolition of the Provinces. Illustrious scientists of the knowledge society have largely criticized this reform, arguing about the short-term approach to humanities, linguistics, Italian as a basis and as a shared bread, scientific and mathematical knowledge and the use of new communication technologies. There is an interesting opening on school-work alternation, but it is shy; scarce resources are available for school building, there is asbestos still in Italian school buildings and about 350,000 pupils are potentially in contact with fibers. carcinogenic. In order to return to reason and to do so constructively, I repeat, on behalf of the Italian Conservators and Reformists, that our Group still prefers that the Government divide the part of the bill n. 1934 that concerns the stabilizations of the precarious, can do so by decree. Finally, put the Senate in a position to discuss with serenity the contents of the reform: it will be useful to the country, to the young generations, to the Italian production system. The government will thus return to respect Parliament, opening up to the contributions of the senators. Unfortunately, many good ideas and good intentions will be crushed by the contraction in the debate on confidence in the maxi amendment. Do you want one? I refer to the proposal made on behalf of my Group in a sub-amendment to the Commission for the establishment of the high school of cultural heritage. A country that wants to celebrate beauty, in fact, cannot afford to neglect a modern formation of actors, declamators and guardians of beauty contained in the considerable cultural fields of the Nation. I am sure that we could all have helped to improve this reform. We will talk about this - it is also provided for in the draft law - in three years' time when the effects of the reform are checked. The legislator, paradoxically, is aware from now on of the defalants intrinsic to the reform, which in fact does not start on the right foot. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u83	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u84	Mr President, earlier in the hallway, I met a senator from the Democratic Party who asked me: You're voting against it, aren't you? Because at least you can. You see, President, this is the paradox and parody of this moment and of the bill we are discussing: you vote against, right? Because you can. Why, is there a bond of warrant? Senators of the Democratic Party, is there a mandate bond? President, has the article of the Constitution been amended? Then do not vote for it unless you recognize it as a valid reform! Don't vote for her. Take your courage and don't vote for it! Otherwise this is a parody at Crozza, with the difference that this time it is not a television show, but a serious thing. What you are going to vote when you go behind the government stand and say yes to confidence will change the way people live, starting with the school institution, whose defense should be one of the primary duties for those who sit in Parliament and in the Senate. Instead, you will not do it, because you bend to the Diktat of Renzi. Mr President, I would like to remind our PD colleagues of two scenarios, of course theoretical and hypothetical, but not very far from reality, and which represent a beautiful chain of command of political power: the Minister appoints the regional superintendents; the regional superintendents (let's call them "proveditors" in the old-fashioned way) appoint the provincial ones, who appoint the principals, who choose the teachers. This is the chain of command. This is the hidden design behind the whole project and it is the same undemocratic design that a year ago we were fighting in this same project. The House spoke of the reform of the Senate and Title V of the Constitution; a plan that wants to centralize in the hands of the President of the Council of Ministers all the power, even that of choosing teachers at school. I also add a typical feature of our country. We place two principals from two schools, both with relatives who teach: you hire mine and I hire yours. It's about clientelism. With this reform you are making structural the clientelism that will make schools slave to the blackmail of the principals-sheriffs who will go to choose, crossing, relatives who make teachers. This is the school reform that you are voting for, a school reform that we proudly oppose. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , doing our full duty by defending citizens from education! In fact, Mr President, what is happening and which has taken place in these hours and days is blackmail: blackmailing teachers. Here there is an opposition that is defending them, while Renzi on the outside says: they oppose my reform, the great reform, the one that wants to age school and I cannot hire them. This is yet another blackmail. It was the 80 euros some time ago and now blackmail is on the assumption of the precarious, behind which instead hides a hegemonic plan of power by the President of the Council of Ministers. This is the beginning of the unique thought; this is the archetype of the one party, which you are supporting! I also say this to the desert benches of the New Right Centre, to those who at this moment are perhaps more committed to thinking about the problems of the undersecretary Castiglione than about what they will have to vote on today. What is the content of the reform that you support? What are we talking about? Are we talking about the training offer plan? Are we talking about something that will give our country and our young people more ability to be competent and competitors than their European colleagues? None of this. The only thing you're interested in is keeping your place in the government and your scranno safe, because you know that if you go back to the vote, you'll never exist again. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That is the difference between us and you: we are not afraid to face the vote! Instead, you are bound and bound to this government by electoral blackmail, and you will also vote for this reform, even though it contains things like gender culture, which we will then talk about unraveling its content. So, that's sad, Mr. President. How sad to see that there is only Senator Dirindin to intervene on behalf of the Democratic Party; indeed, she intervenes in a personal way. In all these hours of discussion, not a Senator of the Democratic Party took the floor, because they had the obligation of silence. Only in the end will we have the only intervention, that is, the one thought. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Albano (PD). But never! CANDIANI (LN-Aut). This is what is happening. There's no point in babbling on those benches. Take the floor, ask to be registered to speak and intervene. You don't, but you could. Don't do it because you have the order not to do it, because you are afraid to do it, because you know that if you do, with the new electoral law you will no longer be re-elected. That is what citizens must know outside: in this House there are those who defend the rights of citizens and those who defend themselves and their minds. Mr President, how sad it is for Senator Gotor who delivered the text of his speech last night! What an endless sadness - the same ones who were here a year ago and fought, or said they were fighting, for constitutional rights - to give up their intervention and hand it over to the acts, with their heads bowed down, then coming out of the door. [[Comments of Senator Albano]] This is what happened here last night, and this is what we are debunking. The President of the Council Renzi is used to conceiving systems of absolute power, which then escapes even from hand; we have understood this in these days with the regional elections. The Italicum doesn't give you so much certainty that it's you who's still running the next round. These systems of power and these games that Renzi conceives in the family, thinking that the thing is to be decided in the family, then they also get out of hand. So be careful to build these games of absolute power, because this is how the degeneration of democracy begins. Then you lose control of it and then we'll see what happens in the future. What a sheriff's garrison! This is the rhetoric of reforms, of those who go on television to make believe that the country is renewing itself through decrees-laws and through the thirty-seventh trust. These are laws that do not affect the lives of citizens from an economic point of view, but which affect you in terms of democratic deprivation, because the citizens today can no longer choose the President of the Province and those who govern them, but the Provinces still exist; because the system that has been envisaged with the new electoral law will no longer allow to choose and elect those who will sit on these posts and those who will sit in the House, because the President of the Council of Ministers will choose them directly. This is his drawing. But I repeat: be careful, dear colleagues of the Democratic Party and the New Right Centre, because sometimes those who build these systems then lose control of them and are overwhelmed. You see, President, this is a country that certainly needs reforms, but in order to make the reforms you must be statesmen, not party leaders who behave like stick leaders, building a system that resembles what in some country of our dear Italy corresponds then to the scala leaders, to those who control the votes in the condominiums, to those who then guarantee the vote in the ballot box. This is the system that Renzi would like to build, but I repeat to be careful, because then he gets out of hand and gets hurt. In fact, reform requires serious statesmen and not presidents who also make party leaders. The country that we are living outside of these classrooms and that is outside of Palazzo Chigi is the same one that is found to have as mayor of its capital, of Rome, a mayor unable to govern it that, even, one day yes and one no, sees its city councilmen taken away. Mr President, we say that this is not serious, because this is the Government that wants, with Marino, a credible system, but that is not credible. A serious President of the Council would not have nominated De Luca as President of the Campania Region and then had to suspend him and say that he does not know where to start to suspend him. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Cardiello and Milo]] A serious system would have made a reform of the school starting with who the school lives it, and not on the head of who the school does it every day. Mr President, there is still blackmail. The maxi amendment still contains paragraph 16, which provides for gender education and which has nothing to do with the family, because in this reform of the school (and there is not yet the Minister in the Chamber), there is no talk at all about family and education, but everything is declined in terms of gender culture. No, Mr President, we do not want this deformation of the school. We defend the family and ask Giovanardi and all the other senators of the New Right Center, who always come here to tell us about the rhetoric of the family, if they will vote for the trust. You are under blackmail, in fact, otherwise Renzi hunts Alfano and you are nothing more. This is the blackmail that makes you sell out the right to the family and our basic culture, which we defend. It is true, Mr President, that Paris is well worth a mass, but here for you conscience and cowardice are exactly the same! Shame on you! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Isenators of the LN-Aut Group display a banner with the words: "We defend our children" as well as signs bearing the]] slogan: "The school is not called Renzi and the principal is not called Agnes."
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u85	I invite the assistants to requisition that banner and also the signs, which are not necessary, given the clarity of the arguments. Colleagues, do not force the assistants to damage this material, so that they can use it outside the Senate. Senator Davico is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will explain the reasons for this confidence which I will give, unlike other members of my Group. This measure, because of the value it has, should have, it is true, followed the most complete parliamentary process. But as is well known, the school, of which we all have direct experience (or we have had it), is a sector, a public good, involving not only students and teachers but also families, administrative and auxiliary staff, local authorities and public and personal services, socio-economic categories and realities and the world of work. As a result the voices and reasons of each are many and diverse. So many that, although we have heard and taken into account the opinion of more than 40 associations in the sector, we in the Commission have faced thousands of amendments and an endless and constructive debate: I must, in this regard, acknowledge President Marcucci, the rapporteurs, all the Commissioners, the commitment, the passion and the quality of the debate. It must be borne in mind, ladies and gentlemen, that the school does not follow the rhythms of the traditional school year. The times were, and are, very tight and we risked the impasse behind these crucial months for our national education and training system. If nothing else, there was a risk of compromising the organisation of the school year 2015-2016. So, the simplest way of not choosing to not displease anyone would turn into the purest and most classic conservatism. On the substance, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote should not have turned it into an ideological vote. This reform (let's call it so) comes after those, in my memory, all solemnly contested: the Berlinguer reform of 2000, structurally modified by Moratti in 2003 and still upset by the Fioroni law of 2006 and then again by Gelmini in 2008. This reform, as I said, seems to us that, for once, it does not make a clean slate of the previous model, to root one tied to an ideology or, at least, to a political part. In short, unlike the costume of at least three luxuries, it does not seem to us that it is in contrast with the existing system, which - it should be emphasized - already had in itself an innovative and Europeanist formulation. During the hard-working sessions of the 7th Commission, it was possible to see how this measure finally intends to give back to the school a central role, that of a godmother of knowledge, and to reorganise it accordingly according to the quality of teaching. It does so, it is true, without squeezing the eye to one or the other category: it improves first of all the quality of life of the teachers themselves, putting at last a brake on the precariousness, the graduations for life, as if they were a condemnation, and the chronic substitute, if we can define it, and finally assuming those who are entitled to have passed a public competition or have followed a recognized formative iter; it states that in the next competition, which will be banned by the end of the year, there is a full reserve for teachers with more than 36 months of service; it makes the school service more efficient and effective; it uses better resources and structures; it introduces technologies and innovation to achieve these objectives. Colleagues, it invests resources: it was years, decades that we did not hear this voice and we did not hear about it. In fact, in the draft law it is foreseen that the Fund for the operation of state schools is increased by € 126 million annually from 2016 to 2021. Many criticize the text's layout in relation to the powers of executives and teachers. Few focus on the importance of having by law a three-year plan of the innovative training offer, that is prepared by all the members of the school institution and therefore essentially elaborated by the college of teachers, on the basis of the guidelines for the activity of the school and the administrative choices, defined by a more responsible principal, and finally approved by the council of institute. These are collegialities, colleagues, and the verification of objectives and results achieved: these are important things. Anyone can see us and exploit reality, but perhaps it would be appropriate that this should not happen on a topic like that of the future of the education of a country, which is then the broader one of the culture and vision of future generations. It is not clear what the alternative recipe is for those who say no regardless. Colleagues, this measure provides for 100,000 recruitments and more; a greater responsibility of the principals, which can be assessed through the training plans that will be able to offer, but without time assignments; the evaluation and valorization of teachers will be entrusted to a Commission, now balanced, which also includes an external element; for once, finally, resources are allocated for school building, for the safety of environments and classrooms, for the training, updating and rewarding of teachers, for the development of technological innovation. Of course, someone will argue that this is not the best of the laws possible, that it is not enough, that school cycles will finally have to be changed, and it will have to be the next measure to do so. Everything here is planned must then be concretely and consistently realized, and it will not be easy. Everything is better, we would miss it, but in September, in a few weeks, our children will be among the benches and, because of the usual ideological obstructionism, everything would be postponed, unchanged and blocked: no recruitment; no economic resources to the poorest institutions in the areas at the highest social risk; no tax credit for those who want to donate resources for disadvantaged schools; no revision of the notorious stability pact for those interventions in the school during 2014; no evolution, colleagues, to be able to shout against each other again: It's not okay, there weren't times, because it's always the fault of others, especially of those who rule; and meanwhile the ceilings continue to collapse on the heads of the students. It really makes me wonder: "Tout va très bien, madame la marquise"? [[Applause from Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u87	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u88	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a country that works seriously for its future work to have first of all a good public school. Good programs are needed to have a good public school, however, but trained, motivated and serene teachers are essential. A good school must also have safe buildings, environments where there is a desire to be, to learn, to teach. A good school must have good leaders, who act according to the basic principles of our constitutional system, with efficiency, rationality, equal treatment, evaluation of the professional merits and commitment of their subordinates, with rigour and extraneousness to clientele choices. Good management must be willing to be evaluated and accept the principle of rotation of management positions, a principle which must be made mandatory for all public administration and not just because, in my view, this criterion must also apply to the private world. But principle, Minister, only partially accepted with merit assessment, but excluding the mandatory principle of rotation. And I regret that. This measure however goes in the direction of a redevelopment of our school, in particular of the public school, and addresses the historical issues of the precariousness of the school with the employment of at least 100,000 teachers and with the further insertion in role of another 60,000 in the next three years. Frankly, however, shadows remain incomprehensible. I do not want to deal here with the issue of the vote of confidence, once again on a measure that would have needed to develop a deeper debate on the merits of the reform and instead it has become, once again, a frontal confrontation between government and opposition, between government and significant pieces of the school world, integrated, moreover - and I regret this - from performances that we should frankly spare ourselves, at least in this House and in particular as we talk about school. What example, even behavioral, do we give to the new generations? However, Minister, I would like to draw your attention to some unresolved issues that need to be reviewed because they contradict the principles of justice that must always inspire our action and that of the government that we loyally support. With our amendments we have highlighted situations already in the attention of the administrative judiciary, which has expressed itself positively at first instance, so we do not understand why they are not resolved by this measure, by relieving the workers, who are in the cases referred to, by judicial action with the result certainly taken for the benefit of the worker and against the State. I refer, Minister, to the precarious or precarious principals of the leadership. This is a very limited number, however, awaiting proper recognition. I am also referring, Minister, to teachers who are qualified and included in the second group who have at least 36 months of service in school institutions, whose exclusion is unacceptable injustice. Finally, Minister, the regret that it has not included the obligation to teach the fundamentals of economics and legal sciences in all secondary schools, a discipline whose knowledge is fundamental for any activity that is to be carried out in a modern country and for any professional objective that is to be pursued. A final appeal, Minister for Education: let us re-evaluate the vocational training schools that the country needs, which the world of work and enterprise needs. This is not a question of re-introduction of a classist system in our public school, but let us not forget the value of manual work, its preciousness in the peculiarity of the Italian economy and its valid support for the rapid integration of young people, of the new generations into the world of work. In conclusion, Minister, the Socialists have always fought for a qualified public school, since it alone can and must guarantee equal treatment, overcoming discrimination and the ability to prepare the new citizens for the challenges of the complexity of society of the future. This society of the future, however, has an indispensable foundation: its secularity and its capacity to represent cultures, spirituality, different expectations, increasingly characterized by diversity of all kinds: racial, social, economic, cultural, religious, existential in general. We are convinced that this reform is going in this direction. And, albeit with some need for further development, we will support it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u89	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u90	Mr President, I should like to say immediately to many people in this House: welcome to the club of those who, from the beginning, like me, said that democracy is at stake here: because we are talking about this. Today in so many speeches, even from those who criticized these positions until the other day, I have heard of democracy. Better late than never, you start talking about these things. We have to tell the truth and I try to say it in the three minutes I had available yesterday. I read you some passages from the famous letter of the ECB (because of this we speak: the last three governments have done nothing but execute the orders of the ECB): " (...) A comprehensive, radical and credible reform strategy is needed (...). There is also a need to further reform the system of wage and collective bargaining (...). A thorough review of the rules governing the recruitment and dismissal of employees should be adopted. This is what we have witnessed with the reform presented today, if you can say so, with the jobs act, first, and with the constitutional reforms. Someone before me had made a passage on other strong powers; I add a reflection to explain how everything is completed. A couple of years ago, someone advised the states that had anti-fascist constitutions to get rid of them because they had - I read a passage - political systems marked by a hateful participationism, where one has the license to protest if unwelcome changes are proposed, such as those aimed at limiting workers' rights. We're on the verge of completion. The last two or three governments had failed or succeeded in part; now they make someone look more handsome to make this assumption pass. Actually, we've been talking about the same things for years, but if anyone has the courage to say it, they have to. Why do you want to in every way precariously? Someone before me took a ride like this. Why are you trying to insecure everything in the world of work? They started - as I have always said - from the world of worker labour, but I, when I talk about work, I talk about everything in general, so also about school. In the opinion of someone in this House, can there ever be a worker, any person, who is free to decide whether to be precarious, whether to have the chance to say no? Can a person ever be free to say no? Can this ever be the democracy acceptable to this country? The government shuns these questions with confidence and does not give the opportunity to seriously discuss them. I am a member of the Commission and I have listened to the members of the 7th Commission scandalizing themselves with such an attitude, but I must say that this is routine in my Commission. It's normal to do this: we talk about rules that go in a certain direction, then maybe we go on vacation for a few days or we come back from the weekend and we find ourselves in front of the things that had been written in the newspapers. Nothing is born at random: everything is the result of a precise design of this Government and those who preceded it. 15.29 p.m. (Follow Barozzino). But I think that all oppositions, starting naturally from us of Left Ecology and Freedom, if they really believe us, must not only give voice to this discomfort, which is now general. We must make one more step: we must commit ourselves, in addition to giving a voice, also to giving real support to the school, to the world of work, to the democracy of this country, because only in this way, if we really believe ourselves, perhaps we will be able to defend the democracy of this country and return a dignified future to future generations. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u91	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u92	Mr President, by analysing all the discussions that have been heard in these hours, between yesterday and today, we understand how this bill is a kind of abortion, all in all. It is an abortion because it lacks legislative quality; it is an abortion because it still lacks method and analysis. There is a lack of all the parts that should concern the revolution of a draft law on school, which should deal with teaching, teaching, teaching ethics, the attention of pupils, in particular pupils with needs. We have seen that there is nothing in this bill. But what leaves me almost quiet is paragraph 133, where it is explained that this bill will never start, for a whole series of reasons. We have seen some of them, and we have heard them from the technical report on the budget: it pretends that there is money, but in reality there is no money and, for one thing, they will be put aside. But, above all, the provisions of Article 1, paragraph 331, do not apply to the school year 2015-2016. You go directly to paragraph 200, where you try to figure out where the money that is not used this year will be put and settled. They cannot be reused in school, because the Budget Commission rightly says that it is not money that we can save. Do they have to be made available to the MIUR? No. That's what you wrote. In practice, you are demonstrating that this bill cannot go on: this bill is not real, it is not feasible. We also see it in paragraph 94, where we talk about hiring. But what hirings? Certainly not the recruitment of a staff of enlargement, but simply of the staff of the common posts of support and of the staff of law, that is what happens every year: every year the Ministry does these recruitments. Nothing weird. So this money is already prepared by law, it already exists: you are not spending something extra, you are not investing in the school. Some of my colleagues said that we're putting in money, that we're giving, that we're investing. No, you're using exactly what's always been there. In paragraph 97 it is said that the extraordinary recruitment plan shall be carried out in the following ways: Let's read them, these modes. By 5 September 2015, those assumed to be needed for the extraordinary plan will be hired. But how do you even write or think that you hire teachers on September 15, when September 15 begins school? This is also a mistake and this is also part of the abortion of this bill, the serious lack of legislative quality of this bill. It is clear that those who have written this do not even know when the school begins, because a teacher cannot be hired on September 15, that is, when it is necessary for the classes to be already organized, when it is necessary for the manager to already know which teachers he must put, if he needs an additional teacher or if he does not need it. In any case, it is part of the practice and pragmatism of those who live in school. This is another criticism that you have received for this bill: continue to want to do something you do not know, of which you just do not know the reality. In addition, continuing, in paragraph 97 it is said that all the persons who will be assumed with this extraordinary plan are assumed with legal effect on the 1st September 2015. This is the great fandonia of hiring: there are people who have won a contest and who, most likely, can be assumed, but this simple hypothesis of legal effect is a legislative absurdity that will never give conscience and security to the person who can have a job as a teacher, who then is not the disqualified teacher or disqualifying that some of you have told. Anyway, today we said it's a day of mourning, but at the same time I think maybe there's also hope because, all in all, people outside this building know what you're doing. People outside have realized that you have not understood anything and, therefore, I also read you a letter that some teachers have left me to share with you. It is addressed to all the senators of the Italian Republic: anyone in the vote of confidence will abstain, abandon the Chamber, will not come to the vote, will express himself in favour of the Government and of the indecent reform proposed will stand before the eyes of the country of having contributed to the approval of an unjust, unconstitutional and anti-democratic reform and will receive in exchange, in the future, the same treatment. The same will make known to the Italian electorate the enormous injustice that is undergoing the state public school and will launch an information campaign in this regard and none of the guilty will receive any more votes that will bring him back to represent the citizens. Here, you represent the citizens. That's why people tell you this and make you understand it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u93	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u94	Mr President, representatives of the Government, first and foremost, like so many colleagues, I cannot fail to point out a question of method. Last night the debate continued until late; some followed him; I, having presided over the session, had the opportunity to listen to all the speeches and, for the benefit of those who did not listen to him, I remember what Senator Tocci said, who is part of the Democratic Party and carries out a dialectic position with great consistency. We remember a while ago he resigned, then the Senate rejected his resignation. I say this to say that he did not give up his ideas, but he did not even want to manage a parliamentary role without demonstrating consistency and showing himself ready to strip himself of his parliamentary mandate. He said that during the experience of center-right governments never on a sensitive issue how school had prevented discussion on amendments and proposals. I quote Tocci as a source not instrumental, but reliable. Our statement would have been enough. Senator Candiani said earlier that many left with the stomachache, with the compulsion, with the vote of confidence vote this measure, but in reality they do not share it. Someone delivers the written text; someone anticipates a few minutes of dissent but then ends by ensuring that he will vote for the trust. I understand that; otherwise, politics can lead to choices of this kind, but there is indeed a strong discomfort and there is a wrong method that is that of compressing the debate. I know that this is a complex matter and that it would take time. Trust has been used and abused in various seasons and by various governments - I am not here to do what is suddenly outraged - but I remember that on many occasions with center-right majorities we have spent days and weeks of debate on important measures and it was a normal thing, President Calderoli. How many sessions have you presided over? He's been doing this since before me for many years. With thousands of amendments and discussions. Perhaps there was no instrumental use of the request for verification of the quorum (although it is not true, because sometimes it was suddenly asked). I was the promoter of a measure, the most well-known one, which had 10,000 votes, between the House and the Commissions, without ever having any confidence. So, it can be done, not by 10,000 votes, but by 500 or 1,000. This is something that was once customary in Parliament, with some extra sitting and some night sitting. Now this constraint on the debate is wrong. Of course, it can be said that everything is instrumental, starting with the amendments. So let's send e-mails: in the telematic society we could solve the problem even at a distance, but I don't think it's useful, nor that it simplifies mutual understanding. I think it's a serious mistake that, like it or not, government gentlemen, the Left and the Renzi Government are paying for the consequences. I don't think the world of school is left-wing monopoly. There are common places for which some categories are necessarily center-right and others left-right, within social blocks that certainly can look more closely to one or the other sector, but then there are exceptions, groups and plural areas, as it is obvious that it is: not all those who deal with security are center-right and not all teachers are left-wing. However, there is no doubt that a break, a deep rift and a lesion have been created on this reform and that the method has not helped. After that, we note it with satisfaction because electoral recovery and consensus are not always the result of their own merits: they are often won because others forgive. This may seem trivial; it has happened to us for just or unjust reasons (but that is not the subject of the discussion). A break has been created, a break between environments and situations that the left, in my opinion not right, has always thought to interpret and represent. This debate on school, some election results and some events are taking place. Be careful because you are continuing to make mistakes. I read today about the state attorney general who has more surnames. I can not quote them all, because it is a very long name, like those mentioned by Fracchia or Fantozzi in the films of Village (I think of Countess Serbelloni Mazzanti Vien dal Mare). I'm talking about a person who has a surname like this: he has more surnames than seriousness and has already provided the alibi, for example, on the De Luca case, giving an opinion of the State's Bill that justifies a decree that should be adopted tomorrow. Attention, because if you adopt the decree ad personam on De Luca on the so-called Severino law, you will not easily exit the Parliament's classrooms. We'll tell you now by then: Do it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We expect this: the decree ad personam for De Luca, the wrong reform on the school and, if anything, the dynamics of democracy get back on track. We also tell you the mistakes you should avoid. As far as the reform is concerned, other colleagues have already spoken and Senator Marin will be making an explanation of vote shortly, explaining the aspects that we do not like. We do not dispute the mechanisms of selection and evaluation of merit. We believe that there are questionable ways and, above all, we are concerned about what is happening on the subject of precarious people. There are discriminations, Minister, and you know that very well: there are many, many and many precarious people from different backgrounds. However, I believe that in time, with the necessary gradualism, balanced measures must be put in place so as not to create discrimination. I reread Senator Azzollini's surgery. Take note of Mr Azzollini's speeches, because - I do not want to trivialize or ironize - he has been the President of the Budget Commission for many years. We shall discuss at another stage the other matters, but they relate to the amendments and the comments made. I saw that the well-known amendment that led to the judicial case was signed by the current Vice-President of the Supreme Council of the Legnini judiciary, whose seriousness and honesty I met in the Senate classrooms, for goodness' sake (absit iniura verbis). When making these amendments, major amendments and comments from the Budget Commission, it must be remembered that the procurations begin to enter into the substance of the votes and amendments. That is what we are talking about, even if we discuss it at other meetings. Attention because Azzollini told you that this fund is a little unclear, it is a special and specific situation. When we talked about the specificity of the security and defence sector, we made a rule of law. Then there was the Berlusconi Government, which sanctioned the specificity of this sector. Now the specific nature of the school sector, which has a thousand merits, does not seem to me to have been sanctioned. This special fund is a little weird. Pay attention to Senator Azzollini's remarks. I would not like to see Trani's proxy or any other proxy coming in a few years from now contesting the government's maxi amendment, against which I shall vote. Prosecutors, take note! I do not want to take risks, like Vice-President Legnini, who is blameless and could be heard because he signed an amendment. The mess and the legislative confusion are bad, like the so-called gender issue, about which Senator Malan spoke. Mr Giannini, we expect clear words on this issue. We don't want to discriminate against anything or anyone. We have seen strange things in schools and what Senator Malan mentioned earlier about the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office (UNAR) and some things that upset the natural reality of things. You see, we are a free and democratic, secular and obviously unconfessional assembly. I am Catholic, but there is no obligation to belong to the Catholic religion. However, we are also discussing gender issues in other measures, which are for Parliament's attention. I begin to conclude, Mr President, and I hope I have one minute for a quote: I have allowed all my colleagues to make quotes and I want to make one myself. In recent days many have spoken on the gender issue, since the debate on the provision on civil unions is under way. In these days the Pope's encyclical on the environment has also been published, entitled "Laudato si'" and all to praise the Pope, who certainly deserves our praise. I saw that many from the left said: "Well the Pope!" Even that the italianist of "La Stampa", "iena" Barenghi, in one of his burning epigrams wrote "Company Bergoglio" and doing so, as Totò would have said, said everything. On the gender theme there is no obligation to follow the Pope, but those who are neo-papists... [[Comments of Senator Zanda]] Senator Zanda, let me quote the holy Father. Can't I? Senator Zanda, I see you holding your hands together. Are you praying? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, I'm here. Talk to the Presidency. I was addressing Senator Zanda on the basis of an ancient custom. Well, I invite you to read point 155 of the encyclical "Laudato si'": I address in particular to those who quote the "compañero Papa" as Barenghi says "yena," but who must praise him all. I leave this reflection to Minister Giannini, who has nothing to do with it, because you are the lay Minister of Education of the Italian Republic. Well, in paragraph 155 of the encyclical it is written that "human ecology" also implies something very profound: the necessary relationship of the life of the human being with the moral law inscribed in its own nature, an indispensable relationship in order to create a more dignified environment. Benedict XVI affirmed that there is an ecology of man because "man also possesses a nature that must respect and that cannot manipulate at will." In this line, it must be recognized that our body places us in a direct relationship with the environment and with other living beings. The acceptance of one's body as a gift of God is necessary to accept and accept the whole world as a gift of the Father and a common home; instead, a logic of dominion over one's own body is transformed into a sometimes subtle logic of dominion over creation. Learning to welcome one's own body, to care for it and to respect its meanings is essential for a true human ecology. Appreciating one's body in its femininity or masculinity is also necessary in order to be able to recognize oneself in the encounter with the other different from himself. In this way it is possible to accept with joy the specific gift of the other or the other (...). Therefore, an attitude that claims to "delete the sexual difference because it no longer knows how to deal with it" is not healthy. There is no obligation to follow the Pope, but I wanted to make this quotation, because many have christened the Pope: I invite you to read it all and to take it into account, also in the implementation of this reform. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and CRi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u95	He's enlisted to speak Senator Russo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u96	Mr President, Mrs Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate these days and what has happened in the country over the last few weeks bear witness to the fact that this is certainly not an ordinary measure. I say this by pressing immediately - but I will return - that the opposition, not unanimous, but certainly majority, expressed also with a suffering that does not leave us indifferent from the world of school, must ask us about what did not work and how to continue - deepening and enriching it with the help of many - the work that today with the approval by the Senate of this bill, I think is just beginning. Not because criticism frightens us: you see, it would be too easy to remember, even as a scholar of school history, that in the field of training almost no attempt at reform in the course of the twentieth century was realized without abundant corollary of controversy and opposition and that between the sixties and seventies at least three governments fell precisely on the subject of the school. Just as it might be remembered that many reforms were made only through delegations, decrees or special powers or that already other governments put their trust in educational measures. I repeat this to underline that it is certainly not a scandal on the part of a government to place confidence on such decisive choices for the quality of the civil fabric and the amount of financial resources involved, and - let me say it between serious and facet - always in the perspective of historical comparison, I think it could be remembered one day even as a merit title for this parliamentary majority to have found together with the Government the ability to discuss - and not briefly - but then to overcome inerzie and difficulties that in other epochs also led to the early dissolution of the Chambers. (Following RUSSO). But we come to the merit, without denying the problems, but trying to respond to some caricature and malicious criticism and simplification of this law that we have also heard in these hours. I have already had the opportunity to repeat that, in my opinion, what we are about to vote on is not the reform of the school, and perhaps not having clarified it immediately created excessive misunderstandings and antibodies. It is a first step, important, but partial and obviously imperfect, that tries to offer tools largely organizational and administrative, new gasoline for the revival of our educational institutions and that necessarily awaits other steps more strictly of pedagogical-cultural profile to be completed. I will try to mention some of these instruments. The first is the decisive, though complex, action aimed at dismantling the precarious system, which has ballasted the school and weighed on the serenity and life prospects of hundreds of thousands of people. In this regard, I would like to remind the many Members who have been controversial about the subject that it is true that we would still have hired the teachers of turnover, and perhaps those foreseen by the Carrozza plan, but would have been about 30,000. With those of the upgrade and the 60,000 of the contest, in a year we will hire more than five times as much, and not for a piece of supplement: perhaps, it would be good to recognize that it is not exactly the same thing. The second is the process of valorization (not without risks but decisive) of the school manager. A path started more than ten years ago, and that aims to better select, train, evaluate but above all to make work better what should be not only the main subject of responsibility, but above all the main facilitator of the processes of collaboration and integration between the various protagonists of the life of the institute. The third is an instrument for the evaluation of teachers that stimulates personal and collective improvement and finally allows to reward skills, initiative, dedication and commitment. There is no excellence without evaluation, and we know that Italian teachers are certainly not afraid of a good evaluation. Let me stress this point. Many have criticized the evaluation committee, particularly for the presence of parents and students. More than anyone has made himself spokesperson for the fear (or indignation) of some teacher. I would like to say that everything is questionable and that the adopted instruments were many, but that I really like a law that can tell our young people that we bet on their ability to be protagonists of what we often want to call a educating community. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And from experience I'm willing to bet that in the end the majority of teachers will be happy to see actively and responsibly involved in the choice of evaluation criteria (because only of this, the definition of evaluation criteria we are talking about) those who are helping to become not only good students, but adult and responsible citizens. In this regard, I believe that - although much has been held back to discuss what politics and unions thought of this law - perhaps it is worth wondering what they really want precisely those to whom the school is obliged to offer primarily a perspective of change, the girls and children, the girls and the boys that we have heard too many times mentioned, and the families who entrust them every morning to their teachers in the classroom, to see if there are at least some answers to their expectations in this provision. Let's start with the fundamentals: families and students ask for more modern and safe school buildings, with spacious and bright classrooms and gyms, where they do not have to look with fear at a ceiling or where even the gesture of opening a window becomes a deadly risk. For this reason there are 400 million in the bill aimed at giving new impetus to school construction. Families and students then ask us a school increasingly capable of welcoming and integrating diversity, of accompanying hardships, of combating gender violence, of not dispersing and bringing to levels of even greater excellence the Italian model of the integration of disability. This too is written in the measure that we are about to vote on. Families and students ask for a school more and more at the center of virtuous relations with their territory. A school always open and protagonist of the life of the community; a school that is nothing else than the world of work but that, as an open and revolving door in the different ages of life, allows a virtuous exchange between school and profession. And this too can be found in law, with that experience of school-work alternation that - I would like to remind you - we have included because this is what has been done for fifty years in the developed countries of Northern Europe and not because Confindustria asks us to do so, dear colleagues. And again, a school capable of keeping up with the digital revolution, a school that does not lose on the street a fifth of the children who are entrusted to it, like a bucherellato aqueduct, a school in which the school manager really has the opportunity to intervene promptly on the pathological cases of teachers who hold hostage youngsters, families and colleagues strong of an unacceptable immovability, a school that transmits love and passion for fine arts, music, culture, a school that does not accept to be taillight in scientific training and that puts our young people in condition to excel in the most innovative crafts. This too, along with many other things, can be found in this law. John Dewey opens the twentieth century with a volume, "Democracy and education" that marks the history of pedagogical research, but above all underlines the inseparable link between the development of educational opportunities (especially through mass schooling) and the growth of the democratic consciousness of each country. In the PD - I say this very frankly to my fellow Members, from whom we have listened to lessons that are often unacceptable - we have very much taken into account the democratic challenge that accompanies every choice on school. And the political culture of democrats is also based on the awareness that the opportunities of so many people to be guaranteed equal opportunities in the game of life that the Constitution is committed to protecting by removing the social, cultural and economic obstacles that would deny it. (Following RUSSO). That is why we are making (at least this is acknowledged) the largest injection of resources and investment in human and financial terms in the school of recent decades. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The first real reversal of the trend from politics (my colleague Tremonti will not want it, but the thing was written shamelessly black on white in the financials of those years) that on the wave of the neoliberal mainstream have long used the school as an ATM and the so-called reforms of the time only as a tool for cutting public spending. To any government after this it will be very difficult to take steps backwards and not at least keep to the level of this reversal of trend. And I believe that all of this is also about what we are about to vote on. In order to live up to its mission, the school must remain firmly linked to its constitutional roots, but must be enabled to overcome the challenge of change. Then let us try to propose a pact - precisely because we know that we must recover the lost ground in recent weeks - and a virtuous challenge with the teachers and the most critical part of public opinion that today is opposed to this measure. We believe that when this legislation goes into effect many doubts will fade away, but in the meantime we relaunch the challenge of confrontation with an open face, we are committed to promoting collaboration with the Government, starting from the National Conference on School announced by President Renzi, and from the accompanying work that will be necessary for the Executive to make a careful, intelligent and meditated use of the imposing delegated power that is entrusted to him with this measure. Dear colleagues and colleagues, anyone who reads with some attention and intellectual honesty this text will be able to verify without difficulty that there is no trace of privatization of the school, of mayors-sheriffs, of clientele mechanisms, of humiliation of the role of teachers or of exploitation of children early and surreptitiously started in the world of work (we also had to hear this). Instead, it will find you perhaps expressed in a way that is not always linear and consistent, the desire and aspiration to realize if not immediately the good school, at least, since next September, a school a little 'better for our children. If we are to do so, we need a greater commitment to better explain our intentions, and we need the humility to correct some mistakes, the effort to build and implement together with the protagonists what for now are only articles of law, even the risk of a momentary decline in consent, none of us will be frightened. It is a price that we gladly pay to pursue the challenge of making a decisive part of our being a national community better. And it is the path we never know easy or too popular of those who venture on the path of reform with the ambition to think first of the future of the next generations than of the outcome of the next elections. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u97	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u100	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, I would like to express my opinion, with the agreement of the members of my Group, who may perhaps express a different opinion, once again entering into the substance, as I have already heard in general debate, of a measure which has first and foremost a particular characteristic. It is, that is, a measure that is largely overrated, because to date it is nothing more than an ope-law of considerable size, but also a generator of an industrial quantity of injustices and which will carry with it a perverse mechanism, it will turn into a sort of "Exodus 2," revenge, which will therefore force us in the future to reconsider what we are doing today. Why is this happening? It would suffice to go to the date that marks the birth of the document defined as the good school to understand everything: it is September 3, last year, that is, the antivigil of that judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union that nailed the Italian State to its responsibilities. Let's face it: since at the end of the complex iter that accompanied the discussion on the good school of that document has remained almost nothing, except the problem of stabilizing and giving accommodation to tens of thousands of teachers, this provision is an ope legis that, hiding behind the titles of the reform, under the heading chapters instead plays the drama of tens of thousands of people, who are considered in such a way that for many of them, instead of opening the doors of paradise, open the chasms of hell. The serious problem with this type of measure is that it has forgotten in the street what should have been the innovative content of good school: the path of merit of the life of a teacher, which should have been characterized by important statements, such as that of giving consistency to the term "carrier," has been lost and has returned to the mechanism of seniority. The truth, however, is that the characteristic of the measure under consideration, which - I repeat - is an ope-law of considerable proportions, but nothing else than this, is that it is now the daughter of no one. Whose reform is this? Is it the President of the Council's? No, he denied it on live television, in world television he said clearly that he was wrong to make this provision and that he is waiting - indeed we should go to his rescue - for a national conference of education that knows how to change the cards on the table and put in a priority order, from the point of view of educational innovation, the content of this possible reform. So it's not from the President of the Council, it's not from the Secretary of the Democratic Party, it's not from this Government, it's not from the Minister of Education. Not only did the Minister of Education not put his face on it, but neither did his voice. Today, it has failed to put a word on this measure and has hidden itself behind the demand for trust, precisely because there is nothing in it that is not the problem of the stabilization of precarious people. What precarious ones are we talking about? Those who are in this government's sympathies. I mean that - and this call should apply above all to those who come from the centre-right side - the state, previous governments have dealt with people, have settled in the relationship with those who aspired to be teachers and have told those who did special training courses and selective trials (such as SSIS and TFA) that they could be teachers. Today, however, the government takes back that commitment and with retroactive effect definitively puts tens of thousands of young people at the door of the education system, in order to favor a discretionary mechanism through which it will be possible to spend for some and not for others, perhaps being able to say, contrary to the commitments that any legislature must take on the subject of education, that there are teachers who are more equal than others. But it's not over. Not only do we not know who the reform is, but we do not even know what the reform is about. The mythical subject of evaluation has also been mentioned with recent interventions. Nobody is against the involvement of the families of pupils, but the problem is essentially what has been described by my colleague Russo: the evaluation criteria. Forgive me, when you board an Alitalia plane and you are given the questionnaire that you can fill out, through which to express your satisfaction and your satisfaction, someone engages you in defining the assessment criteria for which Alitalia may or may not be included in the blacklist of transport companies? Does anyone ask to work at the level of evaluation criteria also with respect to those who, after arriving in prison for the judgment of a judge, can claim to express their satisfaction and their satisfaction at the service which the State, even through restrictive measures, imposes on them? They cannot enter into the matter with which the judge operates, and this also applies to doctors. So why should the evaluation criteria for teachers be expressed by the evaluations, or by those who are nevertheless involved in a relationship that could become perverse? The evaluation is the most desired point for the entire education system, because it is only by giving voice to the possibility of defining the merit of teachers that our education system is taking a step forward. So you don't have to tear your clothes off. This is a mediocre measure, which does in a very bad way what has been forced to do by a judgment and which not only does not remedy all the problems that that judgment had emphasized and pointed out, but in time will complicate Parliament's life even more, because the latter will have to find itself breaking down nodes that are created specifically by this structure of thought, by this way of thinking about the education system. Then there are certainly other questions, relating to the faceloneria, to the approximation with which it was thought to be possible to intervene on the system. But I think that perhaps one of the key steps in the introduction to our plenary work by President Marcucci should be taken again. It is not true that this is the first reform, or the only reform, or more simply a reform. It is true, however, that all the governments that preceded the current government have committed themselves to a reform of education; in the report that the European Commission draws up annually, Italy is the country that has most of all made reforms of education. Wasn't this then a good opportunity to question why those reform proposals failed, perhaps in a resounding way? Was this not the indispensable moment for the democratic life of a nation to be guaranteed the possibility of entering into the substance of the issues of education in order to finally represent a main road, so that the system could be pulled out of the ford? This is the missed opportunity of the law in question. A fake consultation before, a fake parliamentary debate after, and I believe in the end a fake confidence. In the method expressed by the Democratic Party, i.e. to prevent members of its party from expressing their views in the Parliamentary Commission on merit, there is the point of view of the matter. How do you trust a man who doesn't believe in the freedom of members of his own party, [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bonfrisco]] , in freedom and in the criterion of judgment, in the manner of referring to the knowledge, the wisdom of the men of his party? This is the real underlying problem of the method approach of a text that appears for what it is, that is, the mediocre attempt to remedy mistakes of the past. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u103	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, the reform of the school seems destined to take place in our country under a very bad ascending line; obviously no one ever succeeds. In fact, after the only true reform really innovative, that of the middle school took place in 1963, thanks to that authentic center-left that Italy had, that of Fanfani, Moro, Saragat, Nenni and La Malfa, should have proceeded to reform the upper secondary school and then the university. Instead, for over a third of a century we have witnessed endless, and often valuable, debates, but without concrete results or partial interventions, now experimental, now dictated by demagogy, often contradictory or inadequate compared to a society in rapid evolution. One can define the history of a reform of the school never realized, which has weighed negatively on the possibilities of development of Italy. When in 1996, in the XI legislature, Minister Luigi Berlinguer and then Minister Tullio De Mauro tried to achieve with the best intentions an organic reform of the school failed to bring it consistently to a conclusion, because it still weighed the enormous weight of a demagogic-burocratic-corporative lump, magnified and unsolved over the course of thirty years, a weight that was felt also in the next legislature, when Letizia Moratti, Minister of Education in the Berlusconi Government, imposed a reform, which should have given coherence and incisiveness to the approach initiated precisely by Luigi Berlinguer. However, it was able to incorporate elements of modernisation that should now be further enhanced, but not dismantled. It was then the turn of Minister Maria Stella Gelmini, who saw his action strongly mortified by a huge cut in resources imposed by the economic crisis that already gripped Italy. So, after fifty years, the country is still waiting for an organic reform of the school up to the times, up to the country. The Renzi Government, which has had the merit of lucidly placing this matter first in its programme, is now in danger of losing a great opportunity because the process and the content of such an important law cannot be conditioned by the clash within its party. The only question we must have at heart today is to ensure a good reform of the school, but the government, by placing the trust, throws the mask and manifests so that its primary concern is not good school, but a test of strength on the school. School building, then, requires powerful interventions: at least half of the buildings have dilapidated structures and plants out of normal or poorly functioning, not to mention the widespread presence of asbestos in many of them. According to CENSIS data there are about 342,000 students in daily contact with fibres carcinogenic. Therefore, everything could be resolved in a reform that proposes good titles, but weak content. That is why it would be necessary, as Mr Mauro said, to allow Parliament to improve this text, by collecting the requests that have come to this Parliament, as they have come to the government, from students, families and teachers, that is, the real protagonists of this world, those who know and live it every day. Stroke confrontation is certainly at the expense of reform, as well as democracy. And you can't camp the subject of hiring precarious people, because it's misleading. It would have been sufficient to remove the recruitment plan in order to respond to them through a decree, and to leave the reform to develop in a serious and constructive debate. The more than 100,000 recruitments are a legacy of a past (it is certainly not the Renzi Government's fault) characterized by the absence of a genuine and serious recruitment, and today they must be healed for justice, as the European Court has said. But it is a measure that should not be confused with the future of a school that should have a new and modern path. According to many experts in this field, precarious persons may lack the necessary skills to go to the chair. Or, on the contrary, with skills acquired in the field, thousands of teachers will be excluded from this first recruitment. There are many uncertain points that Parliament should have clarified and deepened. One of us did so this morning after the careful reading of the maxi amendment by the Budget Commission. However, I would like to remind you that a subject as important as that of the school-work relationship risks being reduced to a timid attempt, which should instead be better defined, because education at work is necessary for every human being and not only for moral, social or economic reasons, but above all as a way of promoting the full development of the very essence of man. On this director we must remember the important teaching that comes from the American pragmatism, that of John Dewey, who was mentioned earlier, which was spread in Italy thanks to Aldo Visalberghi. Reading those texts, one would understand that in the education of an individual one must be able to balance intellectual activities well with manual ones, in order to realize a formation that wants to be truly complete. On the other hand, we fear that we will continue to go on for statements or attempts: we must avoid falling back into the ancient evil of experimentation, with all the failures deriving from the many trials. We have a duty to give certain and lasting indications: to say that after three years we will check the decisions taken by the individual schools to define then the national guidelines is a clear cunning to take time, and this is not good and it is not good for the school, because there is not so much time and certainly there is no more time to lose, because for too long we have been waiting for a reform. Still having on the agenda in the next legislature the blessed reform of the school would be a defeat for all of us; of course, today is the defeat of the Renzi Government and we, Conservatives, Italian Reformists, do not want this, and that is why we will vote against the question of trust in the government of this bad school. [[Applause from the CRi and LN-Aut groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u106	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, the House is finally beginning to fill up. We have come to the crucial point, colleagues: for weeks we have been talking in the Commissions, we have been talking about it these days and we have tried to remove colleagues from the Democratic Party, especially the Minister and undersecretary Pharaoh (but maybe Renzi too, if he had deigned to visit us to tell us about his idea of school). On the one hand, there are some colleagues; on the other, there are others, with the pros and cons of the measure. On the one hand or on the other: we have to choose, tonight we have to make a choice; we cannot hide - colleagues of the majority, I address you above all - behind party discipline. It is forbidden, ladies and gentlemen, to go and tell the teachers that at this moment they are listening - and there are really many, I did not think - to be against this measure, but that Renzi is threatening us with the question of trust. Be honest with those who are listening to you right now and with your interlocutors. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] If the President-in-Office of the Council threatens, since we have known him for a year now, the threats are answered as serious people: we are not hiding. Today, those who vote will vote to lower the school and are deaf to its demands, because it is impossible to think that there are senators who, to date, have not faced at least one teacher. So, the moment you opened at least one of those emails that clogged your e-mail box, you understood what the school is asking for and what the Italian school is asking for, which is totally different from the proposal you are making. We have said this on more than one occasion and my colleagues have also said it before me: it is not only the League that says no to this fraud; the League is the spokesperson of the world of school, of millions of people who have been clear, very clear. They told us that they were against this measure and asked us to vote no when Renzi came to the Chamber and silenced the parliamentary debate and the vote on the amendments. People against a provision you call reform, because that is all but a reform of the school. Again, don't make fun of people. Contrari to the principal's role, or whatever you want to call him. Contrari to the choices made for stabilization. Contrari to the choices you have not made and for not having listened to the world of school: when you come to tell us that you have gone around schools to listen to teachers and students, well, really listen to what they have to say teachers and students about your listening method. Contrari to the lack of planning: there is no project on what you want to do with this blessed Italian school; there is no project where you want to go, if the Italian school wants to become European like the existing schools throughout Europe or if we have to go back to the schools of the Third World. A missed opportunity, colleagues, and it is not said by Senator Centinario, the Group of the North League, but by the Agnelli Foundation, which yesterday said that this measure, not this reform, is a missed opportunity. It is normal that those who had expectations have been betrayed. At a time when the President-in-Office of the Council, as I said yesterday, sitting at that desk said that school was a priority for him, everyone raised expectations, including us. We had expectations. A President, who was to be an innovator, turned everything - Minister, as you can see, I am not talking about you, but about the President of the Council and his staff - on a missed occasion: you have missed an opportunity. We wanted to talk about school in a serious, constructive way. We would have wanted to compare the various school ideas present in this Parliament, not among the various school ideas that there are between majority and opposition - no more minority, President Marcucci - but between the various ideas that there are among the different groups because within the minority there are different ideas. The beauty of this Parliament is that everyone would have brought their own idea of school and we would have faced each other. Unfortunately, we couldn't. We would have liked to talk about educational programmes because, as I said, a real reform is about this and not just about the stabilization of teachers because Europe imposes it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We had to talk about programmes, about what students should be studying at the moment to be perhaps a little closer to their fellow Europeans, of which the President-in-Office of the Council often fills his mouth when he talks about Europe. We would have liked to talk about the future of the students, President, because the students asked us, they asked you. And you know what the answer was? Send us your ideas in 140 characters in a tweet. Only the President of the Council is able to speak exclusively with tweets, people who are mentally evolved may have something more to say than just a tweet. We would have liked to talk about the schools and the situation they are in. It is unthinkable to talk about the European school, with Renzi on the board, when then parents, at the beginning of the school year, are given a list of teaching materials to carry, including toilet paper, because there is no money for schools. First put toilet paper in the schools, then talk about the principal sheriff. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Vacciano and Simeoni Senators]] We would have liked to talk about teachers because - we have not forgotten - together with the students are the real protagonists of the school. The teachers, in fact, are those who keep the Italian school high and, underpaid, are considered heroes because they are often fashioned classes in which there are people who do not even want to make the "O" with the glass. We would have liked to talk about teachers and their role, because they are people; not only are migrants people, dear colleagues of the majority: Italian citizens who play a very high role, such as that of teaching, are also people. There are people who were waiting for answers and you didn't give them those answers. Instead, we found ourselves the Democratic Party that played in Risiko; nice to play in Risiko, but maybe not during the meetings of the Commission. We have given a bad image outside: seeing and considering that there are two Senators of the Democratic Party who perhaps would vote differently, then we all stand still and do not let anything vote in the Commission; then, at the same time, you realized that even if you did not come to the Commission, you should have come to this House and it would have been a disaster: then, Risiko 2. In this case, Risiko's main player has a name and surname: Matteo Renzi. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] I ask the teachers to point the finger not against the Minister, but against the President of the Council, who once again took away power from his Minister, humiliating her before Italy and before the teachers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] We're not in. We do not want to see our teachers repressed; we do not want to see the students in the hands of professors fearing the non-objective judgment of the principal; we do not want to see teachers thrown away by Renzi just because they no longer serve and because they are not part of the category of friends of friends and friends: some benefit, others do not. We had made a proposal, that of the triple channel, which had been approved by all teachers and by all categories. Instead you come here and, again, humiliate everyone. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] We've come to the point that this reform or you take it as it is or as you bounce it. The League - and here I ask the teachers, for once, to open their ears - votes against, vote against this confidence. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] Not only and not so much because it is a trust - and trust in this Government we will never vote for it - but because the League votes against this measure, which is nothing but the vaseline you are giving to Italian students and professors. This is the Vaseline of Good School! (The Senators of the LN-Aut Group display signs and a tube of vaseline.) Put it in the balance sheet of the Italian State and give it to every professor. This is what the teachers will suffer. (Parliamentary assistants take care to withdraw the signs and the tube.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, colleagues, remove the signs. Senators, cooperate. (Senator Crosio persists in exposing the cartel.) Senator Crosio, please don't hurt yourself. Senator Crosio, I'm calling you back to order.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u109	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the Senators of the Group for Autonomies, PSI and MAIE will vote for the confidence that the Government has put today on the reform of the school. [[Ironic applause from Senator Castaldi]] We do not believe that the question of trust is detrimental to the role and rights of Parliament, since there has been a wide-ranging debate on the merits of the House and the large amendment tabled by the Government meets many of the criticisms expressed. The question of trust is certainly a delicate step, but also an inevitable and consistent choice with the aim of rapidly implementing school reform. The measure appears to be substantially balanced and inspired by a new model of school organisation, which motivates the extraordinary recruitment plan of some 100,000 precarious teachers. In addition, school autonomy is valued, giving more tools to the principals to manage human, technological and financial resources. Innovative criteria and rules for the evaluation of school leaders and teachers are introduced, with primary attention to merit, in order to balance the roles of principals with the rights of the teachers' body. We also consider positively the introduction of an annual bonus of excellence for teachers and the affirmation of a new concept of investment in the school, with the possibility of devoting 5 per thousand to schools and the introduction of the school bonus to allow donations of individuals. Finally, important resources are invested in the school, as it has never been in the past, for the purposes of training and choice opportunities in educational and school paths. We also welcome the new rules for the link between school and work, with particular reference to the reality and needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. This reform incorporates and strengthens the training and apprenticeship model, the school-work alternation model, which is the cornerstone of the dual system that has been successfully tested in Germany and Austria. Even in the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, the dual system has strongly contributed to ensuring that our youth unemployment rate is the lowest in Italy. As representatives of linguistic minorities, we also appreciate the great sensitivity that the Government and the speakers have demonstrated and confirmed to the role and competences of the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano and the Region under special statute Valle d'Aosta. We consider it fundamental that the Government intended to safeguard the legislative competence of the Valle d'Aosta and the two Autonomous Provinces, although unfortunately it was not possible to include within the text, for a technical procedural reason, a more articulated discipline for the Valle d'Aosta. But we are confident that, also in this respect, on the occasion of the visit that Minister Giannini has already announced in Valle d'Aosta, the contents of the regional law of Valle d'Aosta itself will be agreed, in order to be able to transpose in this way the important principles of school reform, coordinating them with local specificities. This measure also allows finally to resolve some issues that have been open for years concerning the schools in German and Ladin language of the Province of Bolzano, such as the recognition of qualifications issued by other countries of the European Union, the educational and training paths, the discipline of the third test for the State exams and, above all, the disciplinary and pedagogical-teaching training of teachers. Finally, I would like to thank, on behalf of my Group, Mr Giannini and the rapporteurs for the measure in the Commission, in particular Mrs Puglisi, who were able to find a solution for mediation between the parties involved, in order to pursue a reform process whose failure to approve would have caused serious damage to the school world. For these reasons, the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE will vote in favour of the issue of trust. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u112	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the SEL senators and the vast majority of our colleagues in the Mixed Group, who have taken their contribution with passion in this debate, will vote not only against the government's confidence - this, as far as we are concerned, was absolutely obvious - but also against this bill, which we consider to be bad and which once again will create a great divide between politics and citizens. This is a draft law that has not been discussed within the Commission, a bill that has not wanted to be enriched and compared with the world of school, which, in all ways and in all forms, has made its voice heard and tried to make its contribution. He told us in every way to stop and open a great consultation. He told us to work to make the contribution of the school world. It was not intended to be discussed in the Commission. A thousand excuses, tricks and tricks have been found to stage the usual script. For God's sake, we are used to it: as I always say, a confidence per week does not take away from us anyone. But this time you have really gone too far and you haven't staged not just the usual script. The real problem is that the path towards the so-called reform of good school Renzi had begun - I would like to remind you - already in the period of primary school. At that time, he began to speak of good school as a priority. And you have raised expectations; you have indicated to the country the possibility of finally being able to make a serious reform. The scene began with the published document on which the consultations opened, which then, transposed into the bill, was very different. When criticism began - if the Minister listens - when the world of school, teachers and students had in hand the bill, once he started his journey in Parliament, began the hearings and experienced various attempts to make different proposals, President Renzi immediately put in place the usual mechanism. He started quietly, as if nothing were, to denigrate the world of school. The propaganda mechanism put in place was to start saying that teachers wanted to subtract themselves from any kind of evaluation and did not want to be judged. We began to say, when serious problems were raised about stabilisation, about the issue of recruitment, that, in fact, we should not do welfare. He tried to turn them against each other. We have tried and tried - for this reason the instrument of trust has been propaganda - in an instrumental way to say that it was the only way to get the recruitment through. In fact, you have not only put in place propaganda tools, which have been lied to all these days and in the last few hours, but you have also completely disinterested yourself - this is the most serious thing - with the true needs of the school. Over the past twenty years the school has been plagued by various reforms, but what have all the attempts at clumsy reforms caused? They have caused a devaluation of the teacher's social figure; a precariousness that is not equal in Europe; a devaluation of salaries and a constant reduction of resources at school. So instead of dealing with these problems, you have put in place a project that not only solves these problems, but unfortunately - alas - aggravates them forever. And now we come to all the lies you've told. On the assumption side we have gone astray in saying to face it using the excerpt, with a serious plan, of common sense and many years, so as to finally heal and finally close the precarious season of the last twenty years. On the other hand, you have produced an assumption that - as you know better than I do - does not meet the real needs of the school, because all the quotas of new recruitments provided for in this bill will not even cover the need for consolidated posts. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] What about everyone else? Everyone else you leave out? All those who, according to the various successive governments, have invented various titles? Everyone you let get the TFA and the PAS? [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Simeoni]] All the second-range-enabled? All the others who, in these years, have ensured that the Italian school went on, that they taught, that they took one or two degrees and that they did the training at their expense? All these outside. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] All of these must then redo another competition, as if it were not enough all the years of training, the qualifications and the selective processes to which they had to submit, sacrificing and even paying [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] I repeat, they have also done so by paying and often with great sacrifices. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Simeoni]] You don't care about that. You are just ready to say that you had to propagandize the 100,000 hires, which you know perfectly well will not cover at all the real needs to make the school work. And this is what happened in terms of recruitment. You boarded. What do we tell you? We are people of common sense and we face this knot and make a plan, finally healing the scourge of precariousness. No, good school what does it do? Mr President, good school, instead of facing the real problems and challenges of the future and innovation for our school, to really prepare future generations, what does it do? Processes and hierarchizations are invented. Yesterday I heard Senator Martini say he went to see some innovative experiments on the direct call. Maybe you could tell us, too. I would not have liked him to have gone to some university in Rome, where some rectors of other times made a lot of direct calls with his relatives as far as the teachings were concerned. Unfortunately, the direct call - I tell the comrades of the Democratic Party - hides a clear idea of hierarchical society. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Mussini and Simeoni]] It is a company in which a principal, with an interview, should make the selection and choose. You understand perfectly what you are facing: clientelism and lack of transparency. Our concern is the construction of A-series schools and B-series schools.Everything else you've written! This mechanism and many other measures contained in the draft law will produce social inequalities. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Simeoni]] I have focused on constitutional problems. Freedom of teaching - words written in the shirt I wear - is challenged by the idea of direct call. You want a hierarchical school, but this will not be a school that will face the challenges of the future. It will be a school that, unfortunately, will question what was the dream of our constituent Fathers and, for a long time, the instrument also of social advancement. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Simeoni.]] [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, let me tell you something.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u113	I'll let you tell him, but get to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u114	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Tonight, while I was listening to the debate in this House, I thought that for each of us there probably were professors who really played an important role and who accompanied us in high school years and in our school experience. I think of my professors, two or three in particular, their dedication and their ability: I am what I am, like many in here, also because of the great ability of those professors [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Bignami Mussini and Simeoni]] The school needs collegiality. The school is community and the relationship between the teacher and the learner is complex, but you did not want to face all this. Yet, we had proposals - I am also thinking of those of Senator Mussini, whom I see here - and the law of popular initiative had been deposited. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and Senators Bignami, Mussini and Simeoni]] We have put all our good will into play, but once again you have wanted to slap us and this House. The most important thing, however, is the slap you have inflicted on the world of school. Instead of reevaluating the role of teachers, once again you want them to be humiliated. The world of school, however, will not forgive you. I say this to the Democratic Party: you cannot have been in opposition and have fought some bad choices and today do worse than before. This will not be granted to you: the world of school has already told you and will not leave you in peace. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Mussini and Simeoni]] We will continue to fight, we will not resign and we will find together, with the teachers, with the teachers, with the whole world of the school, the way to move forward and erase the shame of the school bill. Do not dare to call it a good school: your lies are over. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and Senators Bignami, Molinari, Mussini, Nugnes, Pelino and Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u117	Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I begin my explanation of vote by recalling the course of this measure which started about a year ago, with the consultation phase on the document entitled 'Good school', which has been examined and is open to proposals from all the school components: teachers, managers, parents, students, but also civil society. It was certainly an innovative form of participation, perhaps not well understood in its potential to give voice to all those who had ideas and proposals to make. I remember this for two reasons: the first, not sharing the criticism made by several parties about not participating and not listening; the second reason, to recognize the work that has been done by Italian schools. To this proposal I would like to remind, as an example, the work I know well, done by the schools of Veneto, coordinated by the regional school office, reported in the final document transmitted to the Ministry, which focuses on the various critical issues and makes proposals, many of which are contained in the initial bill; and this means listening. The other Italian schools, however, have also worked in the same spirit and in the same way, allowing to present a bill that addresses various types of problems: tasks and functions of the school manager, recruitment of staff, evaluation and updating of the same, alternation school-work, school building, peer schools, school bonuses, recovery of the role of the collegial bodies, even if the attention during the last phase of the work focused mainly on some of these issues, those concerning the staff. The fact that we come to approval with confidence does not diminish the work done by the 7th Permanent Commission, which I believe has worked well, in a cooperative spirit and beyond the various political conceptions and belongings. This is borne out by the text that we are about to adopt, which is the final text proposed by the rapporteurs, giving a summary of many amending proposals made during the work in the Commission. The text that comes out of the Senate is different, very different, from that transmitted to us by the Chamber of Deputies, not so much in the general system and in the guiding principles, but in the various variations of the many issues that are addressed. In the various phases, it was felt that, at the centre of attention, he was not the recipient of the service, the pupil, the student, but only the teacher component. But a school, to be good, must be such in all its components: from managers to teachers, from students to families, from structures, which must be in the first place safe, to equipment, which must be modern and efficient, to interpersonal relations between the various components, which must be fluid and collaborative, to the functioning of its organs. This draft law does not go into the substance of school systems and guidelines or programmes. However, it affirms the need to expand the training offer with the strengthening of some teachings, to make the school more adherent to the present society, to recover the skills of certain sectors, such as languages, computer science, arts and motor education. Its approval will now have to start with the Ministry to provide the guidelines to implement these guidelines. It is a school of inclusion and not of exclusion, with strong educational and training characteristics, as well as teaching, in particular, for the compulsory school and - immediately on the merits of this aspect - for less fortunate pupils and students, who need specific interventions to acquire greater personal autonomy for easier integration into society and the world of work at the end of the course of study. The staff of autonomy, assigning an additional budget compared to the curriculum, allows managers to take important initiatives to respond to these needs: from the personalized curriculum for the individual student to the reduction of the number of pupils per class. The student's curriculum certainly goes in the direction of leading him to express his potential to the best. It is a widespread and common opinion that the school needs a new law, and now a new law will have, perhaps not perfect, perhaps not as everyone would like it, but it is certainly a law that addresses many of the critical issues currently present, first of all the precarious, an abnormal situation, stratified over time for the succession of norms for access to teaching in recent years not always coherent and homogeneous. This bill now allows the stabilization of more than 100,000 precarious persons and provides that in the future, access to teaching will only take place through competition, which is the mode provided for in the Constitution and is the one followed by other sectors of public administration. The 100,000 that will be hired are certainly not all the current precarious of the school, but by 2015 there is a new competition for additional places, preventable in about 60,000, with also the evaluation of the qualifying titles of the other bands of precarious - to protect those in the school already - that will stabilize much of the current precarious ones, with undeniable benefit for the continuity of teaching and the quality of the teaching. The staff of autonomy is indeed an important potential, which creates the prerequisites for the plan of the training offer to actually adhere to the territorial reality (which is different from one geographical area to another) and can be consistent with the individual educational needs. Within this staff will be able to identify the most suitable professional experiences, both to translate into practice the objectives related to curricula and to give life to extracurricular training initiatives, which can be programmed in collaboration with other territorial realities, with local authorities, with associations operating in the various sectors of social, culture, sport and the world of work. It is a school open to the territory and that dialogues and integrates with the territory. The strengthening of the role and functions of the school manager allows a more modern and efficient organizational model, where responsibilities are easily identifiable, in addition to functions, also; where above all there are those who respond to what is not working, and also the manager, after the changes made, is subject to evaluation. It is a strengthening of the role, however, in respect of collegiality, especially for the definition of the plan of the training offer, which will be the college of teachers to draw up and the school council to approve. We come to the evaluation: a term that has always been an assailant in the school; an evaluation aimed at the pupils, the old-fashioned one, while now it is referred to the teachers: another topic that has long been discussed and subject to strong disputes. But a good school is not afraid of evaluation, as a good teacher is not afraid of evaluation. These are not my last considerations, but the affirmation of a trade union representative during one of the many hearings in the Senate, demonstrating that the unions are not all granitically opposed to this measure. Of course, strict and objective criteria must be identified in order to be well assessed. The presence of representatives of parents and students in the committee that identifies them guarantees the need for objectivity, and for teachers the obligation of professional updating is more stringent, even with economic incentive. The school-work alternation is aimed at making it easier for students to enter the world of work, introducing a minimum duration of internship and internship courses in the company, extending the pool of companies and bodies that will be able to make themselves available to offer opportunities for practical work experiences. This bill also addresses the problem of school construction. Many Italian schools are housed in buildings with structural deficiencies, accessibility limits for disabled people, have insufficient space, lack of laboratories, share gymnasiums. We are all aware, ladies and gentlemen, that, with the resources made available by this law and by previous measures, the critical issues can only be resolved in part. And then I want to make a strong request to the government, making myself an interpreter of the request of many administrators of local authorities who have their own resources available for interventions on school buildings, but who are unable to spend them in order to respect the constraint of the Stability Pact. The request is to remove, with the next law of stability, the costs incurred in the field of school construction from the obligation to respect the Pact. With the initiative of the innovative schools a path is started to stimulate the realization of schools that, in addition to being capacious and safe, also meet the new educational and educational needs. The forecast of the school bonus offers school institutions the possibility to rely on resources from private sources, a very important forecast for the current limited public ones. The forecast of setting up a 10% equalization fund protects areas that might find less availability. This bill affirms the dual system of the Italian school: that of the state schools and that of the peer schools is a principle introduced by Law No 62 of 2000, which is strengthened with the current forecast of tax deduction to the extent of 400 euros for the expenses of attendance. It is a limited forecast, which we believe should be increased in the coming years because - colleagues - it is not true that equal education is the school of the rich, nor is it true that it is a school of confessionalism. Beyond the ideologies, it must be recognized that equal schools, especially in some regions, offer a quality educational service, where there are not enough state educational institutions, especially in children's school, and the data provided by the Ministry on the unit costs per attendee of a state school and an equal school have been mentioned several times. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. Conte (AP (NCD-UDC)). I'm starting to finish. As a person who has lived from within the problems of the school for so many years, allow me to recover a more dignified and realistic aspect of the Italian school than the painting in dark colors painted in recent weeks. It does not respond to the reality that, in the Italian school, everything does not work: it would be ingenious towards that tens of thousands of teachers and executives who work in the school with dedication, competence, passion, interpreting their role as mission. Of these teachers we must be proud, because these are the ones that make the quality of the Italian school. A law was needed by the Italian school and, if trust is passed, a new law will now have, and is a good law, dealing in global and not partial or sectoral matters or part of the problems afflicting the Italian school. And that is why the People's Area will vote with conviction [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u120	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, it was 3 September 2014 when Mr Renzi announced the biggest bluff of the legislature: the reform of the school. That day from Palazzo Chigi said: I propose to you an educational pact with yet another reform, something different. We have a year to revolutionize the Italian school, but above all to give it importance. The agreement, however, had already tightened it up and certainly not with the world of school, if, after nine months and apparent willingness to dialogue, you will vote today in this House a text that has managed to displease everyone [[Applause from the M5S Group]] : teachers, students, parents and school staff, as he himself declared following the recent and obvious electoral defeat. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I would have preferred not to make this explanation of vote, because the measure under consideration, the child of an absurd and surreal process, risks marking the end of the specificity of public school, that school that I have lived as a student and that, after a long journey, has seen me become an active part of the educating community, initially as a precarious and later as a professor. [[Brusio in the Chamber. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u121	It wasn't for you, Senator. I meant to make you listen better and to reduce the buzz of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u122	BLUNDO (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, we really need to listen, but I would not like to see my time reduced. I started my career in a public school valued by the decrees of 1974, with delegations falling within a well-detailed regulatory framework and at the door of a change that would make primary school the only teacher in a teaching team. I remember the resistance of older colleagues to change, but that change, Minister, was supported by high-value educational, sociological and regulatory studies. This text, however, imposed by the Democratic Party, culturally poor and not representative of the school universe, sadly betrays those values. It's no use, Senator Russo. It's no use. There is nothing democratic about the method used or the substance, nothing acceptable. Once again at the base there is only the need to economically relieve the State of any minimum economic commitment to public school [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , as happened for the previous reforms - pseudoreforms - Moratti and Gelmini, not yet fully evaluated for the damage produced, Minister Giannini. In order to ensure a good school, action would have to be taken to reduce the number of pupils per class and to restore the hours of teaching of the complete cycle of history, as well as to ensure in high schools the study of our Constitution, that Constitution that you do not respect. Privilege non-public school with tax deductions for peer schools, but drawing on public funds and selling off the future of public school and our children to the market world with its perverse logic and easy corruption [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Colleagues, the Italians have finally understood that you are poker players and that even on the school, in these months, you have done nothing but bluff, trying tenaciously to achieve a single result: freeing yourself of the economic weight of the public school, deaf and unable to understand that, instead, investing on the school means investing on the future of the country, and Italy remains still at 3.8 percent of the GDP invested on the school, against quite different percentages throughout Europe. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You have bluffed, from the beginning, on the numbers of the hiring of the precarious, interpreting for your use and consumption the sentence from the European Court of Justice of 26 November 2014, which asked for the stabilization of the teaching staff with thirty-six months of service. You have focused on the usual scheme of power represented by the war between the poor, but this time the game did not succeed, because the precarious have been united thanks to us of the 5 Star Movement, that we have worked to safeguard the rights acquired by them in all these years and by all categories of precarious. You, the government of fairy tales, have promised the assumption of 148,000 precarious, and then you have gradually fallen to 120,000 and finally 100,000. But the bluff did not stop here, because with this maxi amendment of yours, on which you dared to pose the 37th question of trust, the teachers hired immediately will be only 40,000, and their recruitment will take place according to the ordinary turn over procedures provided for in Article 399 of the single text. You wanted to go over this text, while the modalities you had foreseen in that bill were not feasible for this year and, therefore, there is only a legal assumption for the remaining 60,000, with chair and salary postponed, at best, to the school year 2016-2017. Once again you have not understood, but used what the 5 Star Movement proposed to protect all those entitled, and not to do this umpteenth piggy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You are the producers of bales, because the assumptions for the school year 2015-2016 will be done by ordinary procedure, while in the text you have proposed we talk about extraordinary procedures and extraordinary assumptions, but there is nothing extraordinary, nothing exceptionally different and deeply inconsistent with the past. This shows even more that this reform was not urgent and would not have served. It would have been better to withdraw this text. Continuing to talk about the 100,000 assumptions since September 2015, prove - colleagues - all your political misfaith and intellectual dishonesty. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Every day, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you prove to be more and more experts in prestigious games and, when you run the risk of seeing your best number fail, to carefully avoid those votes which in the Commission would have blocked or substantially transformed this text, you impose yourself by force and authority. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Teachers, students, families and society are the sacrificial lambs of this reform, which aims to destroy the teacher's freedom of teaching and the student's right to develop its own critical spirit. The combined arrangement which gives the school manager the possibility to define the guidelines of the training offer plan, as well as that to identify directly the staff to whom to assign the posts of the staff of autonomy, violates the principles of transparency and impartiality which should govern the recruitment in the public employment and irretrievably removes the teacher's figure, bending his value and his freedom of teaching to the will of the school manager and the supreme sole need to safeguard his job. This bill mistakenly favours the individual evaluation of the teacher by a special committee, composed of the school manager (who may arbitrarily evaluate the work of the teachers), three teachers (who will have to judge a colleague), representatives of the parents (who, due to fears of retaliation towards the children, will not evaluate the teacher in full freedom, but will be subject to conditioning), and an external component designated by the regional school office. We do not trust you today because we consider it inappropriate to assign to the Government delegations that will allow you to unilaterally intervene in sectors and subjects that, on the other hand, need an open and constructive confrontation, such as the guarantee of the right to study the organization of the schools of children and the integrated system of education from zero to six years, which cannot be reduced to mere service, the revision of the economic treatment of teaching staff. We will not vote for this trust, and I turn directly to those in this House who, if they are there, have the courage and dignity to free themselves from the chains of power: stop this disaster before it is too late! For the future of your children and for the good of your children, the children of your children, we ask you to take pride, we ask you once again not to favour the maintenance of the parliamentary scrounge over the interest of the country. [[Comments of Cardinal and Fabbri senators.]] In this case the country's interest is not to pass this reform and not to give this confidence. Colleagues, we don't need a government that does any damage. We need people intellectually honest and free, who have the strength to no longer be a crutch to a power, subject to banks, Troikas, Confindustria and ENI. We need you to be able to detach yourself from the power of the Premier and his friends and courtiers, who from today, however, practically no longer exists. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, everyone here is screaming and talking! Now I scream, like you did! Shame on you! And you're ashamed too, Mr. President! He's not even capable of keeping order! Give me your word! [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u124	Senator Airola, I had Senator Blondo speak for 14 minutes. All he has to do is complain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u125	AIROLA (M5S). But if People's Area was having a group meeting! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the floor, Senator Marin. MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the President [[. (Lively protests from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Then let's get our own business. Now we have a group meeting here, because that's what we do in this place! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senators of the 5 Star Movement to sit outside the Chamber to make their discussions. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Let's talk! We're having a meeting. That's what everybody does. [[Live Senator Airola's comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u126	Senator Airola, please contain yourself. You want to cause the accident and go up to the honors of the news. AIROLA (M5S). Today, I've gone too far! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marin, you have the floor and not others. You can resume your speech. MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). On February 24, 2014, the President of the Renzi Council came to ask the Senate for confidence and said that this Government would proceed with precise deadlines and concrete stages, starting from school, because it is in the school that the credibility of a country is born and there is no policy that does not start from the centrality of the school. He also stated that it was necessary to give back social value to teachers. Well, if that's the result, these few words already, remembering what they said, lead to a total judgment on what in these sixteen months has been the Renzi Government. Not for nothing, Renzi in that reply thanked all the political forces for what they had responded to his settlement speech, saying: "Thank you, we will keep in mind everything you say."He thanked Senator Paolo Romani, he threw himself into important proclamations; at that time he felt the dominus of Italian politics. Today, however, it puts its fortieth trust in sixteen months, demeaning that very Parliament and preventing it from discussing and making a contribution on fundamental reforms such as this of the school, but not only, humiliating the work of the Commissions. I want to tell all my fellow Members, first of all those of the majority (and then we will talk about this reform): it is not possible that we work in the Commissions, we vote on amendments and we debate, then the usual Minister comes here with the usual voice to put the question of trust for the fortyth time in sixteen months and cancels the work of all the Commissions and all the Members.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u127	[[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators Bignami and Giarrusso.]] I think this says a lot about this government's modus operandi. On the modus operandi adopted for this reform, however, I would like to remind you how it went: as one colleague from another Group mentioned earlier, President Renzi said he had been listening to the world of school for a year. They went to the House with a precise text, which, after a year of work, should have resolved with an almost unanimous vote, according to them (but they do not listen to the voices of the country, because the protest, first of all of the school world, is very high throughout Italy). Having said that, the text went to the House, which voted for it; then it arrived at the Senate, where the Commission could not work: despite the efforts made - we voted nine amendments, we met dozens of times without being able to work and make our contribution - we were blamed for not improving this reform, because the oppositions - by doing their job - have tabled 2,100 amendments to a reform that is clearly not good for anyone, I stress that. Then, one evening, Renzi decided to say on television that he would suspend everything and bring the world of school together. He was listening since September 2014, according to him, because in the settlement speech he had said he was the pivot of everything; despite that, he said: "We spend everything and let's block it; someone explained to him that it doesn't work that way. He, for the truth, also said that he would become a professor: this sentence, I will be a professor (and we will see after merit and quality), says everything he thinks of school and university, because he did not specify whether he will be a professor of school or university. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] He said, "I'll be a professor." He forgot how training and selective courses take place, which are what we want. Compared to this reform, we are not against recruitment, but we are for assumptions that take place by competition, by selective and formative paths. They are two different things: we are not in favour of the appointment of suitable people, and then we are going to pick up after 20 years people who perhaps do another job and have little chance of teaching, because the school is put in this way. Even on recruitment, with the new maxi amendment, you have not kept your promises: there should have been 100,711 assumptions and there will be about 48,000, many of which will be for the turnover, Mr President: I say this to my colleagues in the Democratic Party, because this is the reform of the Democratic Party. Having said that, no one appoints or talks about the merit and quality of the teachers who have done the qualifying training (the famous TFAs): there were 8,000 to date, 16,000 more would have been added in a reform that provides 160,000 recruitments, in your opinion, if so; but how is it possible that those who engage and do training courses are not hired, while those who have perhaps become eligible for a contest twenty years ago are hired? Honestly, this is not the school we want, the school that rewards merit and quality, perhaps because we have a different idea about education from Renzi and Minister Giannini on this reform. As you all know, teachers will be given EUR 500 a year for training, which can also be spent on cinema and theatre. Look, professors are decent, serious people. You don't get them with a tip. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Bignami.]] They believe they are taking educational paths because they have to teach our boys and they are fond of their work and today they also protest the professors who will be hired to defend their colleagues, because they defend - even if they are different from us - what is really lacking in this bill, that is, merit and quality. There are no children at the center of the world of this reform there is more - as we will see later - and it is political. Another thing that we cannot accept is equal schools: we will be able to reduce the tax by 19% to a maximum of EUR 400. We believe that this is not enough. In the meantime, equal schools must be involved throughout the training cycle, from the beginning to the end, both upper and upper secondary and primary schools; point number one. This figure must then be raised to at least 1,000-2,000 euros, otherwise that 19 percent does not equal even the famous 80 euros Renzi boasts of and that allowed him to "win" the European elections. Again: why doesn't someone in peer schools have to be in the MIUR portal? Why should there be such discrimination? Also, how will teachers be employed in equal schools? I remember that the 48,000 teachers who will now be employed in state schools will not be on the call of the principal but with the old methods. You say you have to do one thing, but you have to do another. Why? Because we are not capable and because we are not - another aspect that we do not like - nine delegations are given to the Government in this law. As we said before, Parliament is delegitimized: the Commissions work and are not considered; we, here, vote on a bill and give a blank delegation to the Government, which will do everything it wants on important issues such as the zero to six-year cycle. They are delegations that we deliver in blank. Of the two: either the Government is not able to present its programme to us (or Parliament does not work well and the Commissions do not give ideas), or it is the man alone who decides and says he wants to do whatever he wants without discussion. On the other hand, President Renzi is a professor, he is President of the Council, he is Secretary of the Democratic Party. He plays three plays in comedy. For what reason does trust always come, and this is the 40th? Because a permanent congress of the Democratic Party is taking place, and in this case it is spent on school, on families, on children. The reason for trust is because they don't trust each other either. Renzi says: "I give you this, but I put confidence because I want to see how I vote." It's a perverse relationship now. The country is waiting for serious reforms. In his inaugural speech he said he would reform a month. It's been 16 months and we should have seen 16 reforms. Unfortunately, this is not the case with the country. As I said, we are in front of the permanent congress of the Democratic Party, a congress in which compromises are always down, in which we cannot discuss and we arrive like today with this maxi amendment in which there is an obligation to vote because it commands him. Meanwhile the country goes deeper and there is nothing concrete. There is a very simple reason, Mr President. The President of the Council is also Secretary of the Democratic Party - in addition to being, or will be, Professor, as he said - and when he has to choose between President of the Council and Secretary of the Democratic Party the choice always falls on the latter. I say this to the other political forces who support him (I think that Minister Giannini is a member of the Democratic Party Group). This is the government of the Secretary of the Democratic Party. It's the PD government, it's not a different kind of government. Renzi chooses to always be that. Again, in the reform of the school, he could choose between quality, merit, he could take some of our proposals and other groups that went in this direction, he could choose the children, the families. But he chose the company, as they remind him of authoritative representatives of his party, already PCI, PDS, DS and PD. Between families and children, on the one hand, and the company, on the other, Renzi chose the company and that is why, Mr President, we vote no, because we choose Italians instead. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Campanella. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u130	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Mr President, dear Minister Giannini, Mr Subsecretaries, first of all, thank you for the joint work of these months, and we are truly sorry for the ingenious accusations that have been made to you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we will shortly be voting on the Renzi Government's confidence in what is perhaps the most difficult and most important of reforms. On 24 February 2014 this Government installed itself asking for a mandate: to change this country in the depths, restoring to the eyes of the world credibility to Italy, proud of the beauties and its potential, tenacity in wanting to fight precariousness and inequalities, working to break down corruption and spread legality. In this House, the President of the Council, in his inaugural speech, spoke for a long time, as never before, about the decisive role of the school for change, about the trust we have in teachers. Because as the masters and masters really created united Italy, so will they, more than any politician or ruler, determine what will be Italy of tomorrow. [[Comments of Senator Montevecchi]] We kept the promise we made in the election campaign not to drop a law from above, but to involve the world of school. So the government, on September 15th, questioned the guidelines of good school. A discussion that in two months has involved more than two million Italians in over 2,000 open meetings throughout the country. Finally, a country that confronts itself, even in a harsh way, on the issues of education. We have really listened: just compare the contents of the guidelines with the text that we are going to vote today, after more than nine months of comparison, and look at the most controversial point, that of teacher evaluation. [[Comments of Senator Paglini]] We have remained the only country in Europe to have as the only system of salary advancement of teachers the seniority of service. The initial document proposed to switch to merit shots, based on objective criteria, facts of educational, professional and didactic credits, introduced the figure of the mentor teacher. That is exactly what Mr Tocci wanted in his speech yesterday. But the Italian teachers said no to that proposal. As they said, no to the Berlinguer contest. And therefore the government has listened, as promised, and has made available to the schools 200 million euros (on average 22,000 euros per school), to reward the commitment of the teachers. It had to be the school manager who assigned the resources, but after the demonstration on May 5 and a new discussion, the House accompanied the manager with a committee that had to establish the criteria on how to allocate resources, which here in the Senate, after another 40 hearings and a rich debate in the Commission we further improved in composition: three teachers, two of whom were chosen by the college of teachers, one parent and one student, one external member. Not only that. After two years the Minister will collect the criteria that have been given, in their autonomy, schools and from there, with a scientific technical committee, will issue guidelines. It is, therefore, a truly participatory method, which will involve schools in the construction, at last, of the criteria for the evaluation of teachers. But, between the protest of a part of the precarious and union claims, perhaps we risk losing sight of the real reason why the Renzi Government, after many years of cuts, decided to invest three billion a year in the school, implementing an extraordinary plan of hiring more than 100,000 teachers, 50,000 more than those who are working today. A further 60,000 qualified persons will be recruited through a competition that will be banned by this year. We want the school to return to being the most powerful lever against inequalities, fighting the school dispersal of students and accompanying everyone to the educational and school success. This is the meaning of this extraordinary investment. In the perfect collegiality of today, all responsible, none responsible, of whom is the responsibility when a boy, rejected one, two, three times, discouraged, abandons school? [[Applause from the PD Group]] We cannot watch 18 percent of the girls and boys, who in some parts of the country reach 26 percent peaks, who every year abandon school or do nothing in the face of the uncomfortable results of international surveys, who see our boys at the bottom of the OECD rankings in mathematical and scientific subjects, in the understanding of texts. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It's an educational emergency that can't see us immobile. This is why, together with investments, stable human and financial resources, it has been decided to identify one responsible for the results of the school: the school manager. It is neither the sheriff nor the manager who has been painted in the squares; it is rather the one who will be responsible for the results of the three-year improvement plans that each school, since this year, has begun to elaborate. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And on these it will be evaluated. It will be evaluated every three years on the ability to contribute to the growth of all school staff, making people work well in the individual and collegial dimension in which we believe. We have involved the most innovative and advanced experiences of the Italian school, we have observed them. Yesterday Senator Martini mentioned the "Pestalozzi" in Florence; I know the experience of the "Rinascita" school in Milan; these are high-quality state schools in complicated areas of our metropolitan areas, which have been making the direct call for years. They are schools that have put the values of inclusion and multiculturality at the centre. Why be afraid of the possibility... [[Applause from the PD Group.Comments from the M5S Group.]] PUGLIA (M5S). Get your hands off the school! Mr PUGLISI (PD). ...to bring together professional experiences with the educational needs of schools, allowing teachers' self-candidates and the manager to choose? Everyone is selected and hired indefinitely by the State, everyone will be usefully involved. [[Live comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u131	Let us speak, as you have spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u132	Senator Giarrusso, I'll call you back to order. [[Senator Cioffi's comments.]] Mr PUGLISI (PD). Valentina Aprea's project in Lombardy to have the principal choose who to hire from the precarious. Those who continue to mystify the reality of the facts are wrong. We believe in teachers. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] PUGLIA (M5S). You are exporting your customerism model! Mr PUGLISI (PD). That's why the government invests 40 million euros in the training of teachers, after several years in which no one put a euro... in the Teacher's Charter... [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] PUGLIA (M5S). Get your hands off public school! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So, I'm here to get you to talk. I got Senator Blondo to talk. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. AIROLA (M5S). You're ridiculous! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. For 14 minutes, no one interrupted her. Please, let me... [[Protests from the M5S Group]] You said what you had to say. AIROLA (M5S). Without the work of the Commission! You're painful! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I see someone doesn't want to vote. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). You suck! PUGLIA (M5S). Public school! Public school! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Invitation to Senators Quaestors to intervene and call to order. Please, Senator Puglisi. Mr PUGLISI (PD). We believe in teachers. That's why the government invests 40 million euros... [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u133	Everyone in this House has the opportunity to say what he thinks when he can say.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u134	Please, Senator Puglisi. Mr PUGLISI (PD). ...this is why the Government invests 40 million euros in teaching staff training, after several years in which no one put a euro in it anymore, and in the Teacher's Charter 500 euros per year for cultural consumption (books, technology, entrances to museums and theatres). [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] We believe that teachers are the largest army of intellectuals our country can dispose of; for this reason this recognition is right. We do not tire of saying it: good school is already there, thanks to the work of silent innovators, teachers and courageous school leaders [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] , who ask to revive autonomy, because the school of circulars coming from Rome never helped them to make the students passionate. Those innovators... [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] PUGLIA (M5S). Public school! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, I call you to order, to silence. Please finish, Senator Puglisi. Mr PUGLISI (PD). Those innovators, who know how to ignite passion in students, who know how to help young people find and choose the way for their lives, must be supported and valued. They are the Don Milani and the Maria Montessori of the new millennium, who rebel to the school made of discipline and lectures that have already long opened the doors of schools to collaboration with enterprises and cultural institutions of the territory. [[Senator Santangelo's lively comments]] These teachers and school leaders know that today, like then, we need a school that can throw chairs and benches in the air, especially in the first and second grade secondary school, where we lose too many children on the street. The school is ahead of the slogans that represented it in the squares [[Applause from the PD Group. Live comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] , already realizes experiences of alternance school-work and, where in the Mezzogiorno there are no enterprises, it itself creates spin-off of enterprise with the children, as it has been able to do many years ago my Region, Emilia-Romagna, that from the municipal professional schools has created the network of small and medium enterprises that take place today in the world market of mechanics and electronics. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] CRIMI (M5S). Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me a second. We greet the teachers who are present in the stands at the request of the League. [[Happy applause.]] Please, let's finish now. VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Honesty! Honesty! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I pray to the senators. Quaestors to restore order in the Chamber. I'll call you back to order. I ask the Senator Questre Bottici and the Holding Company responsible for restoring the order. Now let's give Senator Puglisi the chance to complete the surgery. [[Live comments from the M5S Group]] Senator Cioffi, Senator Santangelo, I call you to order for the second time. Then you know what happens. Recognize the right to complete the surgery. Mr PUGLISI (PD). For us the comparison doesn't end here. We will not leave school alone in the face of change. We will continue to work to enhance and spread the beautiful experiences of school and to heal the misunderstandings and contrasts of these months. I would like to thank those Members who have helped us to improve this measure with their criticism and who have chosen to vote on it today... [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Public school! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marton, I'll take care of it then. Don't you want to vote? Don't you want to participate in the vote? Don't you want to give your representation? Tell me what we have to do. You have to let him talk. Everyone had the right to speak. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] We can continue. I'm asking Senators Quaestors to report who's speaking because from here I can't hear the voices. Please, Senator Puglisi. Mr PUGLISI (PD). I want to thank President Marcucci, Senator Franco Conte and all the members of the Education Commission who have worked hard. MARTELLI (M5S). But who? Mr PUGLISI (PD). It was December 7 when Fr.Milani was sent to Barbiana in ecclesiastical exile at the age of thirty-one; mindful of that "I care", written on the wall, with the school we want to change Italy because we care about the school. The left is change. It cannot be conservation and the change of the country needs school. That is why the Democratic Party will vote for this measure. [[Live applause from the PD Group. Congratulations. Live comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u135	Senator Marton, I can't stand this anymore. That's enough! Do not give a spectacle of dignity and senators even to those who follow you and support you. Stop. (The Senators of the LN-Aut Group display signs with the words: This is the Vaseline of the "good" school. The school is not Renzi's and the principal is not called Agnes. Remove the signs. (Parliamentary assistants carry out the President's order.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u137	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u138	RUTA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in dissent from my Group because I will not vote for the confidence required on the text of the so-called good school. [[Live applause from the M5S, LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and Mixed-SEL Groups]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Ruta! Ruta! Ruta! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Ruta. RUTA (PD). I have asked in vain with other colleagues to separate the recruitment measure from the rest of the reform. I said yes to the hiring of 100,000 insecure, but I asked in vain for a three-year recruitment plan to avoid discrimination against the teachers of the TFA, the PAS or the so-called immobilized teachers. I said yes to the evaluation of teachers, but I proposed that objective criteria should be introduced for the award of salary bonuses, national criteria defined in law or defined by the ARAN. I said yes to the possibility for the principals to choose the teachers, but only for the strengthening of the staff, leaving the rankings as a golden instrument for the assignment of the chairs to the teachers. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]] In this respect, I have tabled amendments and have spoken several times in the Education Committee, to explain, as a teacher, the reasons for the dissent recorded by those who live daily at school, expressed with almost unanimous adherence to the strike of 5 May last. In this sense, I want to say with force something with reference to the electoral programme of Italy Common good, PD-SEL coalition, to which I feel bound because on that we have asked for popular consent. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] In this program we wrote: "We want to change the school together with the teachers" - together and not against - "to combat school dispersal, a phenomenon that is the real enemy of economic growth, legality and personal training success." [[Applause from the M5S, FI-PdL XVII and Misto-SEL Groups and Senators Bignami, Campanella and De Pin]] In this sense, I would have invested that 200 million euros of rewards, giving them to the schools of disadvantaged urban areas, where there is strong school dispersal because, as admirably said by Don Lorenzo Milani: If you lose the hardest kids, the school is no longer a school: it is a hospital that cures the healthy and rejects the sick. The school does not need authoritarianism, but authority. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-SEL Groups and Senator Bignami.]] Teachers must be assigned to schools on the basis of rankings and assessed on the basis of objective criteria and not on the basis of an arbitrary evaluation of the school manager. The school must make its way on democratic bases, relying not on the goodness of the people and, specifically, of the principals, but on the goodness of the rules. School is the most important social training after the family. Piero Calamandrei stressed the following: It can well be said that in the long run the school is more important than the Parliament, the judiciary and the Constitutional Court, and turning subjects into citizens is a miracle that only the school can perform. For this reason, he must see exalted the constitutional dictation of responsibility as an educating community, as well as that of freedom of teaching. Simply and greatly. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-SEL Groups, and Senators Bignami, Campanella and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u139	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the articles of bill No. 1934, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust, to which the public present in the gallery can also assist. Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Crimes is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Crimes. DI GIORGI, secretary, makes the appeal. [[Ironic applause and comments from the M5S Group on the senators voting in favour.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't want any comments on every vote. I don't want any influence on the vote. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] The vote must be free! I don't want comments on the vote: did I explain myself? [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] Absent persons cannot manifest their presence in any other way! [[Ironic applause and comments from the M5S Group]] Then I didn't explain myself! We're not at the stadium. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group to the senators voting in favour. Repented calls from the president. Senator Santangelo is called to order. Exchange of jokes between Senators of the PD Group and Senators of the M5S Group who stop at the center of the hemicycle.]] I'm begging Senators Quaestors and Assistants to step in. Make sure that people are removed from the centre of the Chamber. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] No photographs can be taken in the Chamber. Turn off the lights. [[Reiterate protests from the M5S Group.]] Let's continue with the call. [[Ironic applause and comments from the M5S Group to the senators voting in favour.]] I said I didn't make comments on every vote. [[At the time of the expression of the vote of Senators Anitori and Baptist ironic and whistling applause from the M5S Group.]] Colleagues, these manifestations of intolerance towards freedom of vote and mandate are not acceptable. That freedom you want to defend. We all want to defend it, democratically, and then throw it away like this. Montevecchi (M5S). But you don't defend anyone's freedom! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on my fellow Members to be silent, especially those who are absent when they are called. [[Applause from the M5S Group for the senators voting against, some of whom, at the time of the vote, show the black band they wear on the arm or votive lamps.]] The previous speech also applies to the no, not only to the yes. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Then I didn't explain myself: it's also true of the League. (Senators Candiani and Centinario make the gesture to sew their mouths). (At the time of the vote, Senator Montevecchi shouts "No! No! No! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Montevecchi, you just have to say yes or no. (At the time of the vote, Senator Centinaire addresses the stands.) Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). What do I vote for? You're from the Tribune. No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Centinario, I can tell you need some suggestions. Senators say yes: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Battista, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bilardi, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Cassano, Chiivaroli, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Conte, Corsini, Di Giorgi, Dirindin, D'Onghio Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fasiolo, Fatorini, Favero, Fideli, Ferrara Elena, Filippi, Filippin, Finocchiaro, Fining, Fixore, Formigoni, Fornaaro, Franzi, Franzi, Franzi The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amoruso, Aracri, Arrigoni, Auricchio Barozzino, Bellot, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bignami, Blundo, Bocca, Bocca, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Campanella, Candiani, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Comaroli, Consiglio, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Petris, Giro, Girotto Iurlaro, De Siano, Donno Endrizzi Fasano, Malloris, Fucksia Gaetti, Galimberti, Girrusso, Giro, Giro, Girotto, Girotto Iurlararoro, De Sciliaro Li, De Siano, De Siano, De Siano, Dono, Donorio, Donoro, Donoro, Donoro, Donoro If there are no other senators who have yet to vote, I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). WOMAN (M5S). (Thanks to the stands.) Did you see that? Did you see that? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Donno, don't talk to the audience in the stands. Don't make me let the audience out. [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group]] WOMAN (M5S). They've seen it all before! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Donno, please. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,9000 (correct text), presented by the Government, entirely replacing the articles of bill No. 1934, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 273 Majority 136 Senators voting 271 Favorables 159 Contrari 112 Absent 0]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC). Lively protests from the M5S and Mixed Groups.]] All amendments and agendas relating to the text of the draft law are therefore withdrawn or precluded. [[Long-lived protests from the stands.]] You're from the Tribune. Shame! Shame on you! AIROLA (M5S). They're battling them out, President; there's riots! VOICES FROM THE TRIBUNE (at the address of the Senators of the PD Group). Goodbye! We no longer vote on you. You suck! Murderers, murderers!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u140	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. [[Reiterate protests from the stands.]] I beg the assistants to clear the stands.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-473.ana.u141	The Senate will meet again at 4.30 p.m. on Tuesday 30 June, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.46.
