ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on the legal status of civil servants and the reform of management and on the reorganisation of offices and functions of public administrations, to which the Minister for Simplification and Public Administration, Mr Madia, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. So let us turn to questions about the legal status of civil servants and the reform of management. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u6	COLLINA (PD). Minister, the reform thrust that the Government is implementing, with various actions, sees the leaders of the public administration, on the one hand, the subject of reforms, on the other, the protagonist of more comprehensive and complex processes of state reform. I am referring to what is happening in the implementation of the Delrio law regarding the institutional reorganization of the functions of the Provinces. Shortly, the deadline for the various institutions to assess the correspondence between the functions and the staff available, for example for large-area entities, will expire. We must also remember the constitutional bill presented by Minister Boschi, who intervenes on the functions of the Regions, thus reforming Title V of the Constitution. Here in the Senate, in the 1st Commission, we are facing the reform of the public administration, which intervenes with great depth on the leadership pursuing various objectives, including the definition of unified roles and homogeneous recruitment procedures, paying attention to the topic of training and acting significantly in the field of the duration of managerial tasks. All this, of course, with the idea of simplifying public administration. I would like to conclude by quoting another element, which animates today the debate we are holding in this House, namely the anti-corruption bill, and I would like to ask you, Madam Minister, about the role of public leadership in combating corruption. These days, in fact, various hypotheses have been heard that also bring to light the function of the public leaders and I would like to hear the Government's opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u9	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, the tendency of our system has always been to equate the discipline of public work with that of private work. We wonder why, therefore, given the absence of any contrary rule, the new Article 18 of the Workers' Statute rewritten by the jobs act cannot apply to the more than three million civil servants present today in Italy. With regard to the reform of public management, I would also like to draw the Minister's attention to one particular point: if we really want to recognise the merit, we do not understand why the reform reduces the part of the pay linked to the result, that is, the one with which we reward those who concretely achieve the objectives. A proposed amendment refers the definition of this quota to the subsequent implementing decree. We ask, Minister, that the matter be not defined immediately, with a view to enhancing the professionalism and merit of public leaders. Finally, the reform of the public administration provides for the abolition of the office of municipal and provincial secretary. Precisely in this figure Law No 190 of 2012 identified the person responsible for the prevention of corruption in local authorities, while the reform now intends to rely only on the figure of the Director General, which is the emblem of the lack of subjective impartiality, being of exclusive choice of local politicians, who are free to determine criteria of appointment and compensation. We ask you, Minister, if it is no longer useful to identify a more autonomous figure, on the model of municipal secretaries before the Bassanini reform.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u12	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Minister, we have too many executives in state administrations. Instead, we should reduce costs and, at the same time, promote merit and skills. The separation between the first and second areas of managerial level blocks each vertical progression. The management area is accessed by routes often unrelated to the specific context, frustrating the legitimate aspirations of officials who, I remember, in many cases are graduates with a curriculum of excellence, as in the case of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, where a degree is required with a minimum score of 105. This separation, moreover, leads to positions of delicate responsibility people who do not have the appropriate experience, waste existing and economic human resources, where managerial figures are expected even in less complex structures. It is therefore called upon to know the willingness to review public personnel's order in order to reconstruct a career development path, which was once called a career, allowing an official - but the same applies to the second area employee - to develop his professionalism, to carry out more complex tasks over time and to assume, at the same time, greater responsibilities. It is asked, in particular, if it is not the case, precisely for this purpose, to establish an area of predigence with its own legal value, in order to form intermediate positions between managers and employees, where to place subjects able to direct structures of level not necessarily managerial (saving, therefore, economic resources) and within which the managerial personality is formed that will allow the official to overcome successive selections in order to reach the higher qualification.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u15	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Minister, we believe that the legal status of civil servants today is increasingly conditioned by the lack of bargaining, as well as by the absence of interventions aimed at restoring a balance between the regulatory role of the law and the role of collective bargaining, which over the years, alas, has been significantly emptied and reduced in favour of the former, also in relation to matters related to the employment relationship. This invasion of the field took place precisely in conjunction with a firm regulation of collective bargaining, which has been dragging for four years now and which has prevented, in addition to the remuneration adjustments, also the regulatory updating of contracts, whose contents are now obsolete compared to an economic and productive system that has undergone a dramatic involution in recent years. This situation has also been aggravated by a number of interventions by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance on decentralised supplementary bargaining. I therefore ask myself and ask you, Minister, whether it is not appropriate to open the contract season, also in order to promote the depth of the reformist intervention that you yourself wish for the public administration. On the question of leadership, I speak very quickly. We would not want the conjunction between the delegation law and the discipline for the staff of the Regions and the Local Authorities, entrusted to Article 11 of Decree-Law No 90 of 2014, to provoke a sort of short circuit. On the leadership of the local authorities there is the risk of requiring the assignment of the assignments exclusively to the intuitu personae. In our opinion, therefore, it seems necessary to intervene in order to avoid that a reading of the rule in conjunction with the provisions of Decree-Law No 90, places as a single criterion for the assignment of management duties the sole requirement, regardless of the merit, independence in the performance of functions and transparent selection criteria. We have doubts about the difference between the two routes and we would not want the severity proposed for the regulation of the management of merit to be used then to bring into the public administration a clientele and unqualified. What guarantees do you intend to put in place to ensure an impartial, qualified and third-party leadership in relation to politics?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u18	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mrs. Minister, the economic treatment of managers requires that, normally, the achievement of certain objectives triggers pay prizes, even important, for the management. The problem is that the objectives are set by the managers themselves who basically set the targets and give themselves the prize. It is this week a quite goliardic television show that has quoted the case of a single manager of a municipality who attributes all the productivity prize to the Secretary-General: by chance, the same manager who provides the determination of the prizes is also the Secretary-General. At this point, the evaluation criteria should be objectively identified and policy should do so. In our view, it would be a good thing, at the same time, to provide for a sanction system in the event that these objectives are not achieved, because in that case there is absolutely nothing going on. The question we want to ask you, Mrs. Minister, is whether you do not believe that at this point it is the case to alter all the economic treatment of employees (the base plus the ancillary one) also increasing the percentage linked to the achievement of the objectives, leaving unchanged the total and reducing the fixed base. There would thus be a great stimulus to work towards achieving the objectives. We would like to know whether the Government - you, in this case - intends to take measures in this regard and what, in the specific case of the management of the public service. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Madia, Minister for Simplification and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all it is important to stress the approach of public administration reform that we are discussing in the Senate Constitutional Affairs Committee these days. Our approach is that public administration reform is a fundamental reform for the country. Every intervention, therefore, will not start from a sectorial point of view, but it will start from what are the answers that citizens expect to their needs from an administration that is precisely the garrison of the provision of public services and I believe that the reform of public administration, with this approach, is really fundamental to improve the democracy of our country, because where public services are provided in a simple and transparent way we are in a truly democratic country. We are talking about the school of our children, about health and tax; we are talking about the daily life, essential and fundamental, of all the residents of our country. And for all those who work in the public administration, I think the best answer is to put in place rules that really guarantee a competent administration and that rewards merit, that is, those who do their job well. I really think that this should also be an answer for all those workers and those public workers who in recent years have felt overwhelmed by a decadent representation of the administration that does not reflect them, because every day they work with dedication and competence. In this sense, I believe that the intervention we make first of all on the leadership, and therefore on the head, on the motor of those who today work in the public administration, is important precisely in the direction of merit. In the reform of the public administration we focus on an independent and independent leadership from politics, as requires, among other things, our constitutional dictation, which identifies in the competition the way to enter the public administration. In this regard, I want to say that we have several years of maladministration behind us, during which we have often entered the public administration without competition and today we want to resolve this situation too, in which we have often left the Constitution to work in the public administration without the methods of access being those provided for in our Constitutional Charter. Well, we want an independent and independent leadership from politics, which is accessed by competition. This does not mean, however, that you want a leadership in which you get a career based on automatisms, and not on criteria of evaluation and merit. I would like to say that the assessment goes into the percentages of results, which are confirmed. We have removed the rigid percentages on the result allowance because we think that even the manager's career should be linked to evaluation and merit. We think that merit and evaluation should intervene in the manager's career, with an assessment that takes into account the positions of greater or lesser responsibility, as well as how the manager himself evaluates the people who work for him. One of the executive's evaluation criteria will be to go and see how that manager evaluated the people who work for him and whether he assessed in a differentiated and uneven way. I believe that investing an important part of the parliamentary debate, and therefore of the reform, precisely on mechanisms that, guaranteeing the autonomy and independence of the leadership, also guarantee its non-removability, is certainly an additional garrison against lawlessness and corruption, as Senator Collina said but I believe it is also and above all, in the case where there is no illegality (because fortunately there is no corruption everywhere) the way to have a more effective and more efficient administration. Just starting from the approach we have given to the reform of the leadership, I am directly related to the issue of municipal secretaries. Senators, we are not canceling the current functions of municipal secretaries: with a transitional phase, we are rather attributing these fundamental functions to an independent and politically independent executive, so not called by the administrator, an executive who meets those criteria of independence and merit that I have just described. And I come to the jobs act and to the fact that, in the delegation that we are discussing in the Commission, in an article that we have already discussed and voted on extensively, we have approved a criterion on the basis of which disciplinary procedures are simplified in order to get to the concrete exercise of the same: we maintain the poor performance as the reason of the disciplinary procedure and, simplifying it, we make sure that those who do not do good no longer have to work in the public administration. However, while in the case of dismissal in the private sector one can understand the possible request for compensation to the employer because the employer would pay that compensation from his own resources, I think that leaving the reinstatement in the public sector constitutes first of all a guarantee for the community, since the resources to pay for the eventual compensation are money of everyone, of the citizens. I quickly come to Senator Endrizzi's question. In the delegation we are debating and voting, together with you, there are various interventions in the Commission. I think we need to get out of the idea that the employee is the private property of a single administration. The administration is a unique body, it is the Republic of our country. For this reason we want to overcome the criterion of organic plants and reach that of needs, making it easier - and to this end we are going to present the tables of equivalence - the mobility of employees between the different administrations. Employees, in fact, must stay for the right time in the right place, where they serve to provide a service to the community. Every employee is an employee of the Republic and I believe that this is the best response to the valorization of that worker who, first of all, wants to be included in a work organization that allows him to be a servant of the State, a servant of the Republic. I really believe that this reform, also in other respects that I do not have time to discuss with you here, is important for growth. In fact, having managed to impose, from the crisis and austerity we were talking about, the growth we are talking about now is the best response to Senator De Petris, because it shows the will to create the conditions to reopen a contract season blocked for too long. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u22	COLLINA (PD). I thank the Minister and I am pleased because I believe that the reform of public administration and management is the right answer to address even extraordinary issues such as corruption. The organisation of the State, of the public administration, must be structured in such a way as to make it difficult, and in any case complicated, to have access to illegal behavior. I therefore believe that what the Minister said gives full assurance of an approach of great responsibility for a ruling class that in our country I believe is of quality.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u25	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). I thank the Minister but the doubts remain. There has been a broad sharing in the abolition, in three years, of the figure of the municipal secretary; it is understood as indispensable to ensure the performance of the local functions in autonomy and in respect of legality and as a guarantee not so much of the administrators as of the citizens. And here the administrative function stands out in relation to the political one. In fact, the guarantee that impartiality is achieved rests on the administrative apparatus. In this sense, the figure of the Director General, one of the main failures of the Bassanini reforms, instead represents a precarious balance because positioned between politics and bureaucracy, each with its own logic, often in contrast. This also applies to the prevention of corruption in local authorities.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u28	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Minister, the reform as you have presented focuses on the concept of interchangeability, of employees through mobility, of managers through the establishment of the single role. You spoke of the administration as a single body, but to me it seems that you want to transplant on a body that has its own organicity a foreign head, with executives who may not have any experience of that specific sector. There is talk of horizontal mobility rather than talking about vertical progression and that is where we can enhance merit. With regard to the possibility of establishing a prediligency, even in order to reduce costs, you did not reply, but I imagine that we will be dealing with this in the Commission. I believe that we must recover the credit not so much and not only through the offer of an economic bonus (and I have already shown you how you could have savings), but by giving you the opportunity to access more complex and rewarding functions, because that is what is motivating our civil servants and officials.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u31	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Minister, on the reopening of the contract season you are here to tell us that there are conditions, if the reform will take place in any way. Frankly, I feel a little dissatisfied, because I would have expected a little more commitment from this point of view. As far as the management issue is concerned, you have gone overboard, but perhaps we will deal with it again in the Commission. On this subject, however, the issues remain quite open because in the delegation there is a very strong regulation of the leadership of role, from the access to the conferral of the assignments, but we continue to have many doubts about the fact that it still leaves enough field free to the trustee leadership and this, in my opinion, will weigh much also on the leadership of the local authorities. We therefore hope that in the further work on the delegation the Government will make itself available and that the instruments can be put in place to effectively guarantee a qualified, impartial and third-party leadership, which is a strong necessity of our public administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u34	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Minister, I am embarrassed, because I do not know whether to say that I am satisfied or dissatisfied, because you have not given an answer to what I have asked you about the prize for the management's objectives. What I can tell you is that you, with your government, are taking an overly populist approach to this issue. You spoke of the country's interest, you said: "We will do what citizens expect," but that means you have no idea what you have to do. What do you want the citizens to expect? They would like to have more and more, possibly pay less and less taxes; if you ask them what they think of the city police, they would tell you that they would not even want to see them, because they essentially associate them with fines, but it is not that public order can guarantee it with an injection of common sense. I'd be grateful if you could give me an answer next time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u35	Let us now turn to questions on the reorganization of offices and functions of public administrations, to which the Minister for Simplification and Public Administration, Mr Madia, will reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u38	Mr Manassero (PD). Mr Minister, as you have just mentioned in the premise of your reply, we are in the middle of a process of reform: those of the State, of the autonomy, of the relations with the Regions and of the public administration and, within this framework, I intend to refer to you, Minister, and to the Government the question of the garrison of the territory. We urgently need reforms, we have been too firm and today we feel the full weight of them and we pay the full price, but we need good rules to give us back a state and a modern and efficient public administration, closer to the citizens and able to guarantee greater democracy. In this context, I try to list some of the priorities over which it is essential to maintain a careful supervision of legality and presence on our territories: the local administrations, our municipalities, the mayors and the many administrators. The precise work of the Commission of Inquiry into the intimidation of local administrators that has been carried out by this House tells us of their difficulties: they are subject to pressure and actions of blackmail and intimidation, a phenomenon that struggles to emerge clearly but that exists, we read it in the acts and in the chronicles and undermines the relationship between citizens and politics. It is therefore necessary to reorganize the peripheral presence of the State in order to break the solitude of the administrators. I also recall the corruptive phenomena linked to contracts and appointments, and the need to simplify procedures and the organisation of structures, but without failing to guarantee the legality of acts and their effectiveness. I am thinking here of the presence of figures in municipalities and in all those people who have to spend public money to invest and provide services to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u41	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, the draft reform of the public administration provides for the reorganization of state public apparatus, intervening on ministries, government agencies, police forces and prefectures. This rationalization should save public money for services to citizens. However, in order to assess the reform of what has been called the largest company in the country, there are issues that need to be clarified. We therefore ask you whether the reduction of the police force will affect the only Forestry Corps and how, on the substance, the Government intends to proceed in this absorption operation, and what other police forces will be involved. We ask whether a census has been made of those who, while being part of law enforcement, are employed in office work rather than in public order control and, finally, how far the process has come to relocate those 20,000 employees of the Provinces made redundant who continue to wait for alternative employment solutions from the Government. In fact, there is a real risk that the process of staff mobility will be disconnected from the transfer of functions, contrary to the provisions of Law No 56 of 2014. In essence, a significant number of overnumbered provincial employees could travel to regions, municipalities and state administrations to carry out tasks totally different from the previous ones.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u44	MORRA (M5S). Mrs. Minister, Article 7 of Law No 1577 contains a delegation concerning the reorganisation of the administration of the State. However, the lucidity of the government's plan, aimed mainly at reducing public apparatus, is questioned by the Court of Auditors itself, which considers the need for coordination with the current legislation and to consider the effects of the reforms already undertaken in the same direction. The Court notes, inter alia: Against the background of a broader reform horizon, which emerges from the same objective of the provision of delegation, aimed at giving priority to the role of service of public administration to citizens and businesses, one objective to be pursued is to review the size, role and powers of the offices, to be implemented through a process of rationalization of the apparatuses in close adherence to the functions pursued and not only in quantitative terms. More precisely, this rationalisation process requires a careful verification of the functions carried out, even in the light of a possible rethinking of the overall perimeter of intervention, in the face of the competences entrusted to the territorial levels and other public subjects. Thus, in this basic logic, in which the draft law under consideration also appears to be moving, the areas for defining the delegation could become more explicit. In short, the Court allows itself to remind the Government of the fundamental teaching of Massimo Severo Giannini, according to which, in principle, the functions are the "functions," that is, the principle according to which the problems relating to the organization, the staff, the procedures of a public administration are consequent and therefore ancillary to the main one relating to the functions of the same administration. In this regard, we ask the Minister what are the numbers related to rationalization and reorganization of public offices, considering the functional and necessary criterion of the same, that the Government has calculated together with the savings that all this should lead to the public expenditure and the accounts of the State. In view of the recognized functionalism of the public administration, the question arises as to whether the Minister intends to pursue a knowledge activity aimed at understanding in the specific situations of dysfunction of the same public administration, in order to overcome also the logic, in recent years unfortunately prevailing, of linear cuts, explaining how he intends to proceed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u47	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Minister, we are preparing to reform public administration with the bill you have presented and which we are examining in the Commission. One aspect that is evident from the users, from the citizens who turn to the public administration, is that often, in the face of efforts by the employees who work there, the services are not adequate to the demand. We have noted that the annual programming activity of the public administration presents some critical issues, the first of which is that often the program is not defined before it has passed the half of the year to which it refers. The other critical issue is that often the objectives, which are parametric to that programme, are below the operational capacity of the administrative structure, i.e. the latter is not driven by the political subject to operate to the maximum of its capacities. We therefore ask the Government if it is willing to involve citizens, through user associations, in the programming activity, to make them appreciate the programme so defined and the level of achievement of the objectives that often, as we have seen, is attested by the same managers that those objectives should have achieved. This would allow an administration to be able, not only to achieve the objectives on paper, but also to satisfy the user, who is the final recipient of the administrative activity. In addition, amendments have been tabled in the Commission which promote the participation of citizens, which should be in line with what you have stated in terms of intentions in your desire to change the functioning of administrative activity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u50	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam Minister, a distinction should be made between the various public administrations but, generally, in the public administration up to now has been done with practices often contrary to the principle of good administration. To a large extent, this was also due to the absence of evaluation criteria and procedures capable of measuring the efficiency of the performance of the different public administrations, detecting deviations from the standard management or the most virtuous management. Law No 42 of 2009, in fact, had provided for the overcoming of the traditional criterion of historical expenditure and the introduction of compulsory paths of re-orientation of public administration policies on the basis of standard costs. Moreover, they could have contributed to the prevention of corruption. In our view, it would also be appropriate, in order to rationalise costs, to introduce a system of articulation of public expenditure based on the identification of needs and their standard costs. The question that I would like to ask you and to which I would also like to receive a minimum answer is: what measures, Minister, will you take to finally take off the system of expenditure linked to standard costs, precisely to improve the efficiency of the various public administrations? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Mr Madia, Minister for Simplification and Public Administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u51	Mr President, all the actions of reform, from the implementation of the Delrio law, which exceeds the level of government of the Provinces, to the Boschi bill of reform of Title V of the Constitution, which must go beyond the countless reasons for conflicts of attribution that have occurred in recent years between the State and the Regions, up to Article 7 of the delegation that we are discussing in the Constitutional Affairs Commissions here in the Senate and that is the heart of the reform of the public administration, have an objective, that is to have a state, in the broadest sense of the term and therefore understanding both the central and the territorial authorities, simpler and leaner. Through such a state, in fact, today we can guarantee citizens more effective and more efficient services. I would like to emphasise this aspect, which has moved all our reforms, because there is no linear cut in these reforms, but only the need to streamline and simplify in order to have an efficient state for our citizens. The choice to set up in the territories a single territorial office representing the State and the Government for citizens and that, therefore, avoids that the citizen when he is to receive a public service must do, as unfortunately often happens today, innumerable laps passing from one office to another perhaps also receiving different information because they do not communicate or communicate badly, I think it is the best answer to affirm the principle that the administration is one, that it is not a summation of administrations and that, as a single body, represents the Republic and therefore the State for that citizen who has the right to receive public services with certain times and rules. All interventions therefore aim to rationalise, cancel duplication and simplify to increase the effectiveness of the service. The intervention we make on the police force also has, first of all, this intent, but the objectives will be multiple because first of all we want to achieve an associated management of everything that the police can do together: I think about the purchases and the management, for example, of all legal or personnel practices. In the police forces we want to overcome duplication and we think that in this perspective of rationalization, therefore also of the chains of command, five police bodies are too many. For this reason we have planned to absorb one by choosing on the basis of a rational criterion; that is, by choosing what is the smallest from a numerical point of view and is by far the smallest from the other four since it represents one fifth of the prison police, which is the fourth. I would like to point out, in any case, that this is an absorption aimed at rationalising the only chain of command and not the fundamental functions of protecting nature, the territory that the Forestry Corps currently carries out. With regard to the implementation of Law No 56 of 2014, so-called Delrio, I inform you that we are proceeding. As recognized yesterday the same president of the Piedmont Region Sergio Chiamparino, immediately after the intervention previewed in the law of stability, we have chosen in a normative way to relocate the competences that no longer serve the Provinces in order to carry out the essential functions - as defined by the law Delrio - between all the other administrations. Immediately after the law of stability, we have issued a circular that clarifies how the law of stability must be implemented on this point; we are finalizing and we are going to present the tables of equivalence that must serve to understand how these people are framed and therefore to the classification which remuneration corresponds, with the caution that there are no pay losses; we are going to issue a decree that contains the criteria for mobility Region by Region; we participate in daily meetings, even informal ones, with the UPI, the ANCI, with the Regions and also with the unions. Since last Monday, moreover, on the website of the public service is present the portal for the mobility precisely in order to meet the demand and the offer in the best way. I mean, what I want to say is that we are carrying out the biggest mobility operation that has ever been in republican history. We are doing this and on this I really ask you for help and collaboration, so that better and faster and faster these people can play a role that enhances their skills in the right place, for the right time and where those skills serve, precisely, to provide a service to the citizen. With regard to the involvement and participation of citizens, Senator Endrizzi, we have made it a rule always and in any case. The simplification agenda - consisting of 38 actions that we are monitoring in their implementation, with a detailed three-year timetable - is the result of a public consultation with citizens, which have indicated to us the actions to be taken and the areas for which simplification actions are most expected: from tax to welfare, from digitisation to business, to construction. The whole reform was subject to a public consultation, where we received more than 40,000 e-mails. There are some forecasts of the draft law that we are still discussing: for example, we have not yet come to vote in the Commission on the part concerning local public services, but there will be explicit provision for forms of participation and consultation of citizens. Therefore, the participation and involvement of the citizens can only see me extremely favorable: it is indeed a concrete exercise of the current Government. I conclude my speech by addressing a subject that I believe is fundamental, precisely because there has never been any action by the current Government that can even be approached to a linear cut, but at the same time we want to avoid any kind of inefficiency and waste, we have chosen to make transparency a deep and constant action by the Government. We promoted a website, which we called public money. gov.it, that we want to improve, making it up to the best English and American practices. We want, where there are public resources, to have the opportunity for the citizen to know exactly where they come from and where they are headed. I really think that the transparency exercised in this way is the best way to make a qualitative spending policy and therefore to avoid any kind of waste, because in this way we allow social control on the part of the citizen, who will realize any waste in the territories and administrations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u54	Mr Manassero (PD). Minister, I welcome what you have said. I would like to take up in reply the part of your speech concerning the presence of the single office of government on the territory, but I would ask you not only to go in the direction of creating a point of provision of services and information, but also a careful watchman, with respect to the intentions of the administration and the local government and with respect to the events of intimidation and local corruption, about which we have spoken. With regard to the issue of the implementation of the so-called Delrio reform, this is a major reform, which, like all major reforms, frightens and worries those who approach it at local level. On this subject, I call for a great deal of involvement and accompaniment, especially with regard to the world of workers, who are of course not discovered, but should be guided and accompanied in some way.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u57	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, I note that the Delrio reform involves the greatest mobility of civil servants in the history of the Republic and that its circular on the staff of the Provinces has tried to put a piece on the situation, objectively unsustainable, determined by the reform, since the only fully implemented provision of the Delrio reform was the change leading the political bodies. Mr Minister, the hope, therefore, is that your circular will not turn into a patch on a plague. There is in fact an emergency relative to the staff, that is in front of everyone, and that is determined also by the fact that the law n. 190 of 2014 has imposed to the Provinces the forceful levy, in favor of the budget of the State, of a billion euros in 2015, of 2 billion euros in 2016 and of 3 billion euros in 2017. It is therefore no longer possible to finance the transfer of personnel and functions to other bodies, with the resources of the Provinces. In short, we are still in a situation of total uncertainty and this is serious, given that we are talking about the future of thousands of civil servants.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u60	MORRA (M5S). Minister, in terms of the statement of principle, there is nothing to complain about. No one, I think, wants to pursue a compression of public administration by making linear cuts. But, in fact, in the past they have been made only and only linear cuts. When it comes to the blockage of turnover, for example, reference is made to the entire public administration. Now, assuming that these are certainly legacys of previous Executives, he simply wondered if a rigorous and rigorous investigation had been initiated to understand where they were nesting dysfunctions. It is certainly desirable that the site you indicated - public money. gov.it - give a tool to the citizen to understand how and what has been done and can be done, but it is equally true that the words must be followed. We are therefore waiting for more precise indications, because we are convinced that public expenditure on the operation of public administration is not excessive or exaggerated, but rather poorly distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u63	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Minister, thank you for your answer, although I have heard an answer to another question. You have done an exceptional marketing operation, both in the preparation of the reform of the public administration and in the preparation of "good school," asking what were the wishes of the citizens. I was not talking about that, but what it is for citizens, in concrete terms, in the one-year programme and what citizens think - subsequent monitoring - of the activity of the administration with which they come into contact, which is more than a series of very vague demands on a very broad aspect: no citizen can control the actual compliance between what he asks and what the government gives, as it is happening. So much so that, for example, at the level of good school, but also in the public administration, our fear is that the final result will be very distant and distinct from the demands of the citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u66	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Minister, it is not my custom to be rude, but do you know what we are doing in this House? It's called question time: question, questions. We come to ask direct questions and you answer us by listing the government guidelines on public administration reform. This is fine, but it must be done in the Commission: it goes there and explains. All you have to do here is give us answers. I talked about standard costs and I haven't heard an answer at all. I have heard of the reform of the police: all things that no colleague in this House has mentioned. He also comes to make fun of us, twice, when he tells us "we want a simpler and leaner state." It would mean a slim state, it would mean going towards federalist reform. You also use centralist terminologies: the Republic, the State, public administration. But the reform of public administrations has done so by removing from the Regions those few competences they had: all the complementary and secondary competences of the Regions are now at the head of the State; demolished and removed competences also to the Regions and the Provinces with special statute. On the side of the municipalities you have reached the maximum of cuts to local authorities: Even Monti or Letta had not made the drastic cuts made by your government. But how can you come with an angelic face to mock the Senate? He didn't give anyone an answer to the question time. Propaganda must be done with other instruments, in other places, very suitable: this is not the place to make political propaganda. Here its role is to give answers to questions that we will have no other opportunity or other way to formulate directly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u67	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank the Minister for simplification and public administration for his helpfulness and all the interrogators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u68	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-419.ana.u69	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 31 March, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.55 p.m.
