ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u8	The Conference of Leaders approved, by a majority, changes and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 7 August. The calendar provides, until the suspension for the summer break, unique sessions from Monday to Friday, with the indication of the afternoon opening time and with an indicative closing at 8.30 p.m., which may vary from the Presidency in relation to the progress of the work. Suspensions of the plenary sessions will also be established, presumably between 1.30 p.m. and 4 p.m., always likely to change at the Presidency's discretion. This week, work will be completed tomorrow afternoon. On Tuesday 28 July the sitting will be suspended at 11.30 a.m. for the traditional fan ceremony. For the examination of the decree-law on local authorities, in order to give opinions on the measures scheduled, the 5th standing Commission is also authorised to meet during the sessions of the House during which no votes are scheduled. The agenda for today's afternoon session is complemented by the examination of the proposal to set up a single-camera investigation commission on the tragedy of the Moby Prince, the decree-law on the naval mission in the Mediterranean, as well as the European law 2014, with possible follow-up tomorrow morning. In the afternoon of tomorrow, pending the opinion of the Budget Commission, the amendments to the draft RAI reform law will be presented. Consequently, the planned question time meeting with the Minister for Cultural Heritage will not take place. The work of next week will open Monday 27 July at 16, with the examination of the decree-law on local authorities. On Wednesday 29 July, at 9.30 a.m., the Council's document on the elections and parliamentary immunities concerning Senator Azzollini will be examined. Next week's timetable also provides for the possible follow-up of European law 2014 and the follow-up of the RAI reform bill. For the latter measure, it has been established that the final explanations of vote take place on Friday 31 July from 9.30 a.m., so that the Presidency and the Groups can administer the time available. In the week 3 to 7 August will be discussed the decree-law in bankruptcy matter, the bill related to the public administration, already approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies, and, where concluded by the Commission, the bill on civil unions. Finally, the calendar will be supplemented by an examination of the Senate's internal accounts and balance sheets.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u9	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the programme of the Senate's work for the months of July, August and September 2015: - Document XXII nos. 14, 17 and 18 - Establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the causes of the disaster of the ferry Moby Prince - Drawing of law n. 1577-B - Delegations to the Government on the reorganization of public administrations (Linked to the financial maneuver) (Approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 14 and related - Discipline of civil unions
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u10	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted by majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 7 August 2015: [[Wednesday 22 July pom. h. 16,30-20,30 - Doc. No XXII, nos. 14, 17 and 18 - Establishment of a Commission of Inquiry into the Moby Prince Disaster - Drawing of Law No. 1997 - Decree-Law No. 99, Operation EUNAVFOR MED (final vote by 7 August) (Scade on 6 September) - Drawing of Law No. 1962 - European Law No. 2014 (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Following bill No. 1880 and related - Reform of RAI and public service radio and television Thursday 23 " ant. h. 9,30]] The amendments to the Doc. No XXII, nos. 14, 17 and 18 (The establishment of a Commission of Inquiry into the Moby Prince disaster) will have to be presented by 3 p.m. on Wednesday 22 July. Amendments to draft law No 1997 (Decree-Law No 99, Operation EUNAVFOR Med) will have to be tabled by 4 p.m. on Wednesday 22 July. The closing time of the meetings shall be indicative and likely to vary from one Presidency to another in relation to the progress of the proceedings. Suspensions between 1.30 p.m. and 4 p.m. will be established at the discretion of the Presidency. [[Monday, July 27 pom. h. 16 - Drawing of Law No. 1977 - Decree-Law No. 78, local government financial measures (It falls on 18 August) - Possible follow-up of bill No. 1962 - European Law 2014 (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Doc. IV, No 8 (Wednesday, 29) - Follow-up to bill No 1880 and related - Reform of RAI and public service radio and television (*) Tuesday 28 " ant. h. 9-20,30 Wednesday 29 " " h. 9,30-20,30 Thursday 30 " h. 9,30 Friday 31 " h. 9,30]] (*) The final explanations of vote on the bill n. 1880 and related (Reform of RAI and public service radio and television) will take place from 9.30 a.m. on Friday 31 July. [[Monday, August 3, pom. h. 16-20,30 - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 83, in bankruptcy matter (Ove approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade on 26 August) - Drawing of law n. 1577-B - Reorganisation of Public Administrations (Approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) (Collegato alla maneuvera finanziale) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 14 and related - Civil Unions (Ove concluded by the Commission) Tuesday 4 " ant. h. 9.30-20.30 Wednesday 5 " " h. 9.30-20.30 Thursday 6 " h. 9.30 Friday 7 " h. 9.30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law n.... (Decree-Law n. 83, in bankruptcy matters) will be set in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law n. 1577-B (Reorganisation of Public Administrations) and to draft law n. 14 and related (Civil Unions) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. The calendar will be supplemented by an examination of the Senate's internal accounts and balance sheets. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1997 (Decree-Law No 99, Operation EUNAVFOR MED) (4 hours and 30 minutes, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: PD 42' FI-PdL XVII 23' M5S 20' AP (NCD-UDC) 20' Mixed 18' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 15' GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PpI, IdV, VGF, FV) 14' LN-Aut 13' CRi 13' Dissententi 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law no. 1962 (European Law 2014) (5 hours and 30 minutes, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 4 hours, including: PD 56' FI-PdL XVII 31' M5S 27' AP (NCD-UDC) 27' Mixed 25' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 20' GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PpI, IdV, VGF, FV) 19' LN-Aut 18' CRi 18' Dissententi 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No. 1977 (Decree-Law No. 78, local government financial measures) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 30' Government 30' Votes 1 h. Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 9' FI-PdL XVII 39' M5S 33' AP (NCD-UDC) 33' Mixed 31' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 26' GAL (GS, MPA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV) 24' LN-Aut 22' CRi 22' Dissententi 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 83, in bankruptcy matters) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 9' FI-PdL XVII 39' M5S 33' AP (NCD-UDC) 33' Mixed 31' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 26' GAL (GS, MPA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV) 24' LN-Aut 22' CRi 22' Dissententi 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law n. 1577-B (Reorganisation of general government) (5 hours and 30 minutes, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 4 hours, of which: PD 56' FI-PdL XVII 31' M5S 27' AP (NCD-UDC) 27' Mixed 25' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 20' GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PpI, IdV, VGF, FV) 19' LN-Aut 18' CRi 18' Dissententi 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u13	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I note that there is an obvious inconsistency in what you have just listed as the ideal calendar for the next few days. Mr President, to ask the Commissions to work during this House's work, and to prevent the senators who are taking part in the work of the Commissions from being able to be actively present during the debate, and then to stop, because you have to go get fresh with the fan, frankly, it seems at least a mockery. So sit down on Tuesday morning, as it should be, and if you want to go to the fan ceremony (as is tradition), you can go there without any problem; but we will also work here in that circumstance. This is my first request for a change, because frankly it would be a disrespect for the senators who are taking part in the work of the Commissions. Mr President, at the Conference of Leaders, there was an issue which needed to be clarified by the Government. Other political forces have called for an intervention by the President of the Council of Ministers. We called for Mr Boschi's presence in the Chamber to clarify the relationship between the foundation of which you are Secretary-General and the British American Tobacco, with regard to the supposed relations of interest which have been made known to the public by the daily press. It is no small thing, Mr President, because we are talking about the highest representatives of the Government and the interests of citizens who are harmed in favour of private third parties in conflict of interest. We want to be clear and we want to be sure that there is nothing about the government. That is why we call for an integration of the timetable, with the presence of Minister Boschi to clarify this position and to ensure that there is no illegal interest on the part of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u16	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we welcome the fact that the Moby Prince measure finally arrives in the Chamber and that next week the measure concerning Senator Azzollini will also come to the Chamber. However, we are opposed to the fact that the final vote on the reform of the RAI will be set at 31 July. Already today at the Conference of the Leaders we said that this is a very important topic, because we are talking about information, the plurality of information and how to preserve the freedom and plurality of information from the long manus of politics; therefore it is a very broad and very important speech for a country. We believe that we should not put any kind of gag or restraint on the debate on a central topic for the life of a country. So we are absolutely against the deadline of 31 July for the final vote. The 5 Star Movement today called for the President of the Renzi Council to come to the House to report on a fact that casts a heavy and dangerous shadow on the work of the Executive. We learn from the newspapers that it seems that British American Tobacco, a tobacco lobby, got a favorable treatment last year, in 2014, when reviewing and increasing the fixed part of tobacco excises [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , after having spoken with representatives of the Government to express their opposition to the measure which was being examined by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and which would not favour this tobacco lobby, but would have damaged it. We would therefore like to stress that this lobby, the British American Tobacco (BAT), is one of the founders of the Open Foundation, which, contrary to what has been supported today at the Conference of the Leaders, has links with the current Government, because the Open Foundation sits with Minister Boschi. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] , with the post of Secretary General, and undersecretary Luca Lotti. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] To say that this foundation has no direct ties with the Government in our opinion is not regular and does not correspond to the truth. The fact that one of the funders of this foundation, after an interview with the Government, gets what we consider to be a favorable treatment, as noted in the press article I mentioned earlier, should at least mean that the President of the Council comes to report on these facts, to clarify and shed light on this shadow, which is added to the billions of shadows that now weigh on this Government. If the government were right and had its own political and moral conscience, perhaps it would have gone home alone and long ago, without waiting for the accumulation of shame upon shame, which makes all of us ashamed, not only in the eyes of our citizens, but also of international public opinion. There are governments that have resigned for much less. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u19	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, it seems to me that in discussing the approval of the timetable there are a number of subjects for discussion. If I may, however, Mr President, I would like to reiterate our request, on behalf of the Group of Italian Conservators, Reformists, to allow an issue which is particularly relevant to Italian citizens, such as the legislation on civil unions, for the Commission to complete its work in due course, since it seems to me that we are still on the way. It is not a good thing that we are able to find a synthesis. I know that this is not the subject we are discussing today, but it relates by analogy to the subject that I would like to bring to your attention, Mr President, regardless of the efficiency, as well as the effectiveness of the timetable, which, in my opinion, is a value that must always be guaranteed, even if the most important debates in the world are to be addressed. After the constitutional reform, which is again in the attention of this branch of Parliament, the right to information and public information is perhaps the most important act, from the point of view of the framework of democratic guarantees, which we must continue to guarantee to our country. Therefore, I propose once again that we do not want to make a major and important debate such as the RAI debate and the right to public information, but that we use all the instruments at your disposal, as I believe most groups are asking, to take a proactive and proactive role in regard to the groups which have tabled hundreds of amendments. This is in order to allow a serious and constructive discussion to be held by all the senators on such important issues - I quote in the order the freedom of information, that is, how the Italian State guarantees this freedom (and at this time there is so much need) but also that great company producing culture that has been and that we hope will return to being the RAI - for which, in my opinion, it is necessary that the time of maturation of possible mediations can also be found in this House. I do not want to disrespect the work that has already been done in the Commission, but I believe that this is a broad and very broad subject in which all senators can participate, in the efficiency of a time which, of course, must be guaranteed to this House, but without preventing, with the quota of time, a peaceful and peaceful, as well as constructive, debate. This is what the Group which has tabled the lowest number of amendments compared to all the others and which, together with you, invites the Groups to make good use of the instrument; but I strongly ask you, Mr President, to allow this House to express itself and not to tighten the time limits for the adoption of the measure by means of the 31 July leghold trap, while a significant reduction in the number of amendments seems absolutely desirable to me. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u22	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, today, for the first time in two years, I had hoped that the timetable would be approved more in agreement, given that a number of subjects had been introduced which were also part of our request, such as the Committee of Inquiry into the Moby Prince and the incardination of the measure on civil unions. On the other hand, Mr President, we have once again been faced with obvious forcings. I'll be very brief. I do not think that a form of quota in disguised facts is acceptable with regard to the reform of the RAI, which indicates the date of 31 July as the deadline for the final vote, all the more so in a timetable such as this, when there are not many days available and the measures to be examined very complex. This is not acceptable under any circumstances, of course, much less on a subject such as the reform of the RAI, in which there are issues obviously not secondary, which concern very serious problems - I am thinking of Senator Zavoli's intervention today. and which concern the mission of the public service, the pluralism of information, thus also the application of constitutional principles. I believe that in principle the idea of quotas is never acceptable. Having said that, we have tabled 45 amendments, Mr President. We could also make them four, six times more, breaking them up, but we have preferred the speeches on the subject with precise proposals. Among other things, Minister Boschi has announced that an amendment will be tabled by the Government and this will mean that when that amendment is tabled and opinions will be expressed, I believe that there will of course be even a smaller number of amendments. All this in order to say that the proposal to change the calendar that we submit to the Assembly is not to consider the date of 31 July as the final date within which to vote on the draft law on RAI.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u25	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I would ask that the timetable be changed by including the debate on the motion, tabled on 29 April, which calls for the F-35 not to be equipped with nuclear weapons. However, Mr President, I would like to make a particular request to you, because under Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, since this motion has been signed by more than one fifth of the senators, it should have been discussed strictly within 30 days of your submission, which has not taken place. You have the right, even on your own, to arrange for this act to be included without even having to be put to the vote by colleagues. I would ask you to find space next week to discuss and vote on this motion. If you do not feel that you should do so, I would ask the House to vote on its inclusion in the calendar and propose the date of Thursday 30 July. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u28	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to propose to you and to this House a change to our timetable, specifically with regard to the 9.30 a.m. sitting on Thursday 6 August: as an alternative to the debate on the measure on civil unions, so that the Commission can have time to complete its work more structured and organically, I would ask you to put forward a motion tabled by our Group on the issue of cross-border workers. We believe that it is appropriate at this moment to consider the difficulties linked to the issue of the 60,000 cross-border workers who affect the border provinces with the Swiss Confederation, to discuss this motion aimed at stimulating the Government, which had first of all pointed out its necessity, to conclude in a very short time the completion of the bilateral agreement with the Swiss Confederation. The agreement, in fact, was perfected on the side of the question of capital and black lists, but only one road map was drawn up on the issue of workers. We believe that the issue of civil unions is certainly important - and that is something else: it is a matter of democracy - but at the moment there are the interests of 60,000 workers who, as you know very well, Mr President, were found last week, thanks to these agreements which perhaps have not been perfected in the right way, to tackle the great problem of paying medical expenses in the Swiss Confederation, which did not happen before. We therefore think that framing this motion as soon as possible is more than legitimate and will therefore ensure that this happens.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u31	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, with regard to the beginning of the explanation of the amendments to tomorrow morning's RAI reform and to the quota of time, today we have learned that the reform of the RAI will not be armored and closed in the Senate and then voted in the House. At first there was this sense of urgency, since the Management Board is extending the extension, to approve it as quickly as possible, within the limits of the delicacy that we have all recognized on this subject. Today we have learned that the text will actually come, open to changes, to the House, where it will be discussed and modified and then will return to the Senate. This sense of urgency therefore already disappears and evidently becomes more rarefied. Secondly, we do not yet have the opinion of the Budget Commission on the amendments. Therefore, tomorrow morning I will gladly start to explain the amendments, but the fact that the timing is contingent I consider it an unwise gesture given the dialogue (and I think it is never so available, open and we hope it will be profitable) that has started between us, the Government and the rapporteurs. I believe that I can give my Group a guarantee that it will not be obstructive, and that everyone knows, and that is what Senator Zanda, who took part in the Group, must also know. On the other hand, I find myself explaining in a quota of the amendments which may not even be valid, because they have been rejected by the Budget Committee. We understand that there is a short circuit on one of the perhaps most confused calendars that I have seen in these two and a half years. Let us forget the RAI, let us wait for the opinion of the Budget Commission on the amendments, let us wait to start a debate on the subject (because, I repeat, we are only doing the barricades if there is no willingness to dialogue and this willingness for now there is), and let us discuss in a really useful way one of the pillars of democracy. As far as civil unions are concerned, I would like to say that the measure in question is still in force in the Budget Committee, which has to assess the issue of the reversibility of pensions. I just want to point out that as in the case of so many other constitutional rights (for example, the history of pension indexing, blocked and then restored by the Constitutional Court), we find ourselves with basic civil rights blocked because we risk exceeding the budget balance. By the way, if these people were to get married by forming what many call conventional families, we would still have been in the same situation; if we were to marry each other tomorrow in heterosexual couples, the problem of pension survivors would be the same. So let's fix a roof and figure this out. Clearly, there is still a political knot that could be dissolved much more quickly. But this is another speech. I ask you not to start tomorrow, in this context of total insecurity, with the illustration of such important amendments to the draft RAI law and fill the agenda with the programme that we already have, in fact, very rich, very dense and very confused. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u34	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to submit to you and to the House my proposal for a calendar of the week from 3 to 7 August, that is, during the weeks when the bankruptcy decree is scheduled, and then I would like to express a concern and a conclusion to the proposal. Today, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the measure on the reorganisation of public administration has been incardinated. Mr President, I cannot ask you to take a look at it, because it would be offensive on my part to your high office, but, as Mr Pagliari was well represented (which I believe has the same concerns), this measure has been extensively reworked in the House with very broad content on delegations and various other subjects. I wonder if we, as the Senate, must always be in a position to face an important emergency measure. Last time we discussed in this House, and I also apologized to my colleague, Mr Pagliari, with whom we understood each other - there was all the desire to do something right - about a measure which we are largely remodelled and which we will have to deal with in an emergency. Let me ask you a question, why don't I make fun of the manifest norm? I read about the press agencies - so I think it's true - that President Zanda asked for the calendarization in that week of the bill on civil unions and, however, I see it written in this calendar. So, Mr President, I make a proposal to you and to the House. Since I have concerns, which can also be very widespread, with respect to the reorganisation of the public administration, the choice is twofold: or we do not make fun of and take away, with respect to civil unions, the words 'where concluded by the Commission', thus demonstrating a real political will and not a manifesto (so we are happy also the colleagues of the New Right Centre that I imagine on this subject will be very pleased to be able to debate), or we delete all that measure and one more day is expected for the discussion on the reorganization of the public administration. One cannot predict one thing, pretending to do so, because it is good for the Democratic Party which says that the timetable, and then adds where concluded by the Commission is. If we know that the examination in the Commission will not be completed, we take that point out of the timetable, we make no fools of ourselves, we do not worry about our colleagues in the New Right Centre and we do something more serious. My proposal is twofold: either we completely remove the item on the agenda for civil unions or we remove from the item civil unions the words 'where concluded by the Commission'. In this way we are clear from the point of view of the timetable and also of the political coherence of this majority. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u37	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask that the debate on the motion on urgent measures for the territories of Veneto affected by the exceptional atmospheric adversities of 8 July 2015 be included in the two-week planning which separates us from the August break. This is a motion that, together with my colleague Stefani and the Lega Nord Group, we have tabled and that we believe is fundamental to be discussed in these two weeks that separate us from the summer break. It has already been two weeks that an event of extraordinary gravity has taken place for a part of the territory of Veneto, which has caused very great damage: one dead, one hundred injured, interruption of road connections, over 500 damaged or even collapsed buildings, hundreds of cars destroyed, serious damage to agricultural and business activities. There are those who have even lost everything: home, car, work. In the face of this tragedy, there has been an immediate intervention by the local institutions, the Region, the Regional Council, the Junta, the local authorities, the territory, the Civil Protection, the citizens of Veneto who, at such a serious time for some of them - in particular the inhabitants of Dolo, Pianiga and Mira - have rolled up their sleeves and made actions in support of those who have been affected. There is one subject missing in this whole affair: the Renzi Government. There is no effective state intervention. We therefore call for the motion to be included in the timetable, and we are also prepared for it to be discussed after the local authorities measure. We had asked the meeting of the Leaders to be scheduled, but the majority decided otherwise, arguing that the local authorities measure will contain answers. At present, there is only one government amendment to that measure which would provide EUR 7 million for the breach of the Stability Pact for the three most affected municipalities: this is a completely inadequate response. Therefore, if, after the discussion of the local government measure, we see that the government has not been able, by means of the amending action, to give concrete answers for the damage that has been done (about EUR 100 million), we ask that this motion be included on the agenda, that a debate be opened in the Assembly and that documents be voted to give an answer as quickly as possible. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u40	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I believe that the timetable should be changed as follows. It is all very well to discuss immediately the establishment of a committee of inquiry into the tragedy of the Moby Prince. I ask, however, to include the measure on citizenship income and the request to establish - it is fundamental, because they are still waiting - the Commission of inquiry on the bankruptcy of the company Deiulemar, shipping company. I cannot understand why the Senate passed it to the Transport Committee instead of giving it to the Finance Committee, as it is a failure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u43	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I think I have enough parliamentary experience to know that we must not formalise ourselves on issues that are secondary. I am surprised, however, and I would like to inform the House that, with regard to civil unions, on which there is a very serious debate, there is no delay. We are waiting for the government to say to the Budget Committee, as regards both the reversibility and the burdens on employers, what are the amounts for which no coverage has been provided. When the Budget Commission takes note of this, it will be sent to the Justice Commission which, in turn, will have to raise the issue of cover and start discussing the amendments. Not one has been discussed. The amendments are from all groups, including the PD, which tabled amending amendments. I understand Zanda's political provocation, which must show that he places the measure on the agenda, when the Commission has completed its examination, but it is a provocation. I think that calendars should be made according to calendars and not political posters. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, if you make the amendment proposal, I'd appreciate it. GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). That is the proposed amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Which one? GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). This is about civil unions compared to a factual situation in the Commission, which makes it impossible to go to this House within the next two weeks. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Would you like to remove the civilian union measure from the calendar? GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). This is my proposal, although I note that it is all a provocation game within a mechanism that is not a calendar of the House, but an external one. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I wanted to make sure I understood your proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u46	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I propose that the draft framework law No 1482 be drawn up before the summer, containing the delegation to the Government for the codification of animal protection legislation and I say the reason for that. First of all, we never agree and, since we have difficulties in legislate for people, maybe for animals we can do something better. Moreover, lately, images of free violence on animals that are really creepy are increasingly frequent, even via the Internet, and then there is another reason. Unfortunately, with the beginning of the summer holidays, the shameful phenomenon of abandoning dogs and other animals increases. It would therefore be a signal at this significant time of the year and countertrend. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u49	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, yesterday we asked for the convening of the group leader because we had called for the hearing of Mr Alfano on the events in Treviso and Rome. We asked why we thought that this House should know from the Minister's words exactly what the government's positions are on immigration and the increasingly pressing and uncomfortable situation that Italian citizens are experiencing. The thing that puzzled us was the fact that the Capigroup decided not to support Minister Alfano. It leaves us perplexed for the simple reason that our colleagues in the House had planned for the Minister's hearing today. Therefore, there was the political will on the part of the House of Deputies to listen from the Minister's words to what had happened, rather than read it in the newspapers, as always. Unfortunately, President, it is happening more and more - I understand that the parliamentary regulations are different between the House and the Senate - that the Ministers are being audited, listened to and then discussed and discussed the problems of the country, while the Senate arrives with the dropper, because the Conference of the Leaders makes them come so. I understand that there is a desire for monocameralism, that the Senate should not speak, listen and do anything, and that there is evidence that nothing should be done. I understand that. However, Mr President, I think that if our colleagues in the House of Members have the right to listen to the Ministers, we also have the same right in the Senate. I would ask my colleagues in the majority whether they want to be senators and listen to what the government says. If so, well; if not, I wonder what we are doing here. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u52	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, as Senator Montevecchi has punctually requested in connection with President Renzi's speech, I would ask you to find some room for the President of the Council to report to the House on the assessment that he will make of the news, as soon as he has learned, that the Court of Auditors has requested the dissolution of the Abruzzo Regional Council for serious budget failures. I repeat: very serious failures. Councillors and Presidents of the Region are those who, with your constitutional reform, would come here to the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would not like the next President of the Senate, to be safe in this House, to preside with a bulletproof jacket, because we are in this situation and the regions are in the hands of these people. It is therefore appropriate for the President of the Council to report on the serious situation of the Abruzzo Region. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u53	We shall now proceed to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the Assembly's work, made by Senators Candiani, Castaldi, Centinario and Montevecchi, aimed at introducing the conduct of government information. If adopted, the individual proposals will be put to the vote. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings, made by Senators Montevecchi, Bonfrisco and De Petris, aimed at eliminating the forecast of the date of 31 July as the deadline for voting on the draft law on RAI. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings, put forward by Senators Cotti, Crosio and Tosato, to include in the timetable the holding of motions. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Airola, to postpone the explanation of the amendments tabled to the draft RAI law scheduled for tomorrow's sitting. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable with regard to the draft law on civil unions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u56	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I withdraw the proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u57	Senator Giovanardi, I acknowledge this, but other senators have made the same request. I put to the vote the proposed change to the calendar, made by Senator Bonfrisco, to postpone the examination of the bill on civil unions. It's not approved. As the outcome of the vote is clear, the counterproof is not necessary. I put to the vote the proposal, made by Senator Volpi, to remove from the calendar the expression "where concluded by the Commission" with reference to the draft law on civil unions. It's not approved. As the outcome of the vote is clear, the counterproof is not necessary. I put to the vote the proposed modification of the calendar to include the examination of other drafts of law, advanced by Senators Airola, Puglia and Fucksia. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u60	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I did not understand the answer to my question about the inclusion of the abbreviated motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u61	The answer is implicit in the fact that you have also put the motion you have asked to put on the agenda. At the next Conference of Leaders we will consider it. Cotti (M5S). Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u62	The next item is the debate on documents XXII, Nos. 14, 17 and 18, in the unified text proposed by the Commission. The rapporteur, Senator Filippi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government has been more than twenty-four years since that evening of 10 April 1991, when 140 people, on board the Moby Prince ferry, lost their lives: men, women, children, slowly dying and waiting for help. In the collective imagination, in the historical memory of this country, this story, this tragedy, this unpunished massacre, as the family members of the victims call it, seems never to have happened: at the forefront of the news at the time of the event, then almost nothing more, only the pain of the relatives and the institutions closest to them, local authorities and some regions, essentially unarmed. Every year, Livorno, my city, on the occasion of the event, is witnessing the growing anger of parents who corrode thinking that they survived their children, of children raised without a parent, of widowed wives with a family to carry on. They are the further victims of a painful affair aggravated by omissions, tampering and misdirection. Twenty-four years have passed, and every year the victims' relatives invoke and beg institutions for two simple things: truth and justice. Those who have been torn from life in such a brutal way cannot fail to see the responsibility for that event recognized, so that such a disaster can no longer be repeated. The Moby Prince was a passenger ferry with a long series of deficiencies: malfunctions on the radio, different failures to the engines, the fire alarm system disabled, the hub of the propellers to change, a single operating radar, the forward hatch opened because it has been broken since 1987. It presented, in short, a long series of problems that would recommend a technical stopover to put it back in condition to travel safely. Instead, on a quiet spring night, the ferry spurs a firm tanker at the bottom, the oil tanker maneuvering for the disengage, the operation succeeds and the ferry is watered with the product that carried the oil tanker Agip Abruzzo. The resulting fire will cause the most serious massacre at work and the most serious tragedy of the civilian marine industry: 140 deaths and only one survivor. The judicial events that have taken place have not established responsibility, but have not even reduced the fogs of the event, much thicker fogs than those that had also wrapped the tanker at the time of the collision. The prosecutor who has carried out the investigations has considered to bring to the court, as responsible for a crime that soon would have gone into prescription, not the owner of the ferry, as responsible for the life of its seafarers and those who, paying a ticket, were entitled to a service in safety; not the commander of the tanker, for the responsibilities deriving from his conduct omissive; not the commander of the office, proved unable to carry out his role of coordinator of the rescues, but the sailor of lever that was to respond to the radio, the officer of guard in the office and the commander in second of the same. As far as the tanker is concerned, the defendant was the young officer on duty at the time of the collision. The trial, which saw at its beginning change the prosecutor, who has as defendants characters who certainly have responsibilities, but certainly not those of the agony and subsequent death of 140 people, could only end with the absolution for all, as requested, by the same prosecutor. The procedural formula according to which the fact does not exist, besides offending common sense, cannot be the answer that the family members and with them the nearest institutions expected. There can be no human being who, in the face of such a terrible death of one's neighbour, can accept the phrase that the fact does not exist, as if the event had not happened, as if dying waiting for help should not see recognized the responsibility of anyone. Every year and every useful occasion, the committees of the relatives of the victims who have been formed since then read that endless row of names, repeated since then a thousand and a thousand times, even recently before Parliament. No massacres can go on prescription, as the pain of the victims' family does not go on prescription. It is an unpunished massacre because, while families were tearing themselves apart from pain, there were those who changed the state of the places, those who tampered with sabotage and omitted, in a body of the crime under the strict protection of the judicial authority. The oil tanker was seized almost immediately, without sampling the cargo and carrying out the necessary investigations. The ferry continued to show itself in port until someone decided to lay down on the bottom, to be an obstacle to the dredging of the port and, therefore, to be seized to make the last long journey to Turkey, where it was destroyed. Twenty-four years have passed; twenty-four years have been waiting for answers. Now it is politics, after years of silence, that gives life to a parliamentary committee of inquiry that sheds full light on the event and is able to indicate the responsibilities; a Commission that reaffirms the right of a country to know the truth about events and massacres, with a work that does not stop in front of the rubber walls, but backgrounds that curtain of omerta and silences that have characterized the story to ascertain the historical truth, to indicate responsibility and responsibility, but above all to place the necessary remedies so that tragedies like this do not have to repeat. This is what family and institutions ask of us, to honor the memory of those 140 people who have paid with their lives the mistakes and responsibilities of others. Mr President, entering into the substance of the measure before the House, we can say that it is finalized to the institution of a Parliamentary monocameral commission of investigation for the ascertainment of the causes of the disaster happened on 10 April 1991 in the port of Livorno, when 140 people perished in the fire erupted aboard the ferry Moby Prince, the company Moby Lines, following the collision between that ferry, in service on the route Livorno-Olbia, and the oil tanker Agip Abruzzo, anchored in the harbor harbor. Two degrees of judgment took place on the matter - the trial of first instance, concluded in October 1998 at the court of Livorno, and the trial of second instance, held at the court of appeal in Florence - and a further four years of investigation, completed with the request for the termination of the criminal proceedings by the prosecutor of Livorno, accepted by the judge for preliminary investigations in December 2010. On this tragic incident, however, there were many shadows and uncertainties, highlighted by the associations of the family members of the victims of the Moby Prince who, on the basis of investigations carried out independently, contested the reconstruction of the events resulting from judicial investigations and refuted the reasons behind the request for archiving. It is, therefore, indisputable that Parliament intervenes to answer all the questions and suspicions highlighted during these years, entrusting to a Commission of inquiry the task of reconstructing what happened, in the light of the new elements emerged, and thus to identify the real causes of what was the greatest tragedy of the Italian Civil Navy of the post-war period. The text under consideration stems from the unification of three proposals, which have as their first signatories, respectively Senator Petraglia, Senator Manconi and Senator Paglini. These proposals had a similar approach, presenting some differences in relation to the different boundaries of the scope of the investigation and the duration of the Commission's work, and greater convergence with regard to organisational profiles, which are now well-established in parliamentary practice. In the course of its examination in the 8th Commission, it was decided to set up a restricted Committee, which led to the drafting of the text now under consideration, which was widely shared by the various political parties. This text is divided into six articles. Article 1 contains a very broad definition of the tasks of the Commission of Inquiry, which will first have to clarify the minimum and maximum survival times of the victims of the disaster on board the ferry, including through the review of the medical-legal documentation produced by the technical consultants called in debate, integrated with the photographic documentation and video of the first inspections, never brought to the attention of the judiciary, including that possibly not yet examined in possession of both civil and military authorities. With reference to the need to clarify the causes of the collision between the Moby Prince and the oil tanker Agip, the Commission will then have to ascertain in particular the exact anchoring position of the tanker and the actual orientation of the bow, which was the course of the Moby Prince and which one of collisions. In addition to verifying the role of oil tanker personnel in the immediateness of the collision and subsequently, the Commission will have to clarify what events occurred on board the oil tanker before the collision, as well as what cargo it actually carried. It will also be necessary to shed light on the conditions of armament of the two ships and the state of efficiency of their safety equipment, as well as on the causes and responsibilities of the ineffectiveness of the rescues. Article 2 regulates the composition of the Commission, of which twenty senators will be elected by the President of the Senate in proportion to the parliamentary groups. The President of the Senate will appoint the President of the Commission, choosing him out of members. Articles 3 and 4 regulate the investigation activity and the request for documents and documents. The Commission of Inquiry shall carry out investigations with the same powers and limitations as the judicial authority and shall lay down the rules on professional, banking, professional, State or functional secrecy applicable to investigations or acts of the Commission. In addition, relations between the Commission and the judicial authority or other investigative bodies with regard to the request for documents are regulated. Article 5 provides for the obligation of secrecy for members, officials and Commission staff, indicating the penalties applicable to infringements. Finally, Article 6 regulates the internal organisation of the Committee of Inquiry, including the calculation of operating costs in EUR 30,000 per year, charged to the Senate's internal budget. Article 1 also provides for the Commission to last two years and for it to present a final report to the Senate on the work carried out and the results achieved. Minority relations are permitted. It is also expected that every six months the President of the Commission set up will report to the House on the work in progress. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u64	I declare the debate open. Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u65	Mr President, after twenty-four years of waiting, we are here - at last I would say - in this House to talk about the tragedy of the Moby Prince. But the fact does not exist. At last there are the political conditions for the establishment of a Commission that sheds light on the many unresolved issues of this sad affair. A first thought must, therefore, necessarily go to all the family, friends and associations that constituted themselves of the 140 victims, arses lives in what many have defined as the "Ustica del mare" (ustic of the sea). But the fact does not exist. We recall that on April 10, 1991, just 2.6 miles from the dock of the port of Livorno, the greatest and most painful tragedy of the Italian marine industry was consumed. But the fact does not exist. 140 people lost their lives in the stake following the collision of the ship Moby Prince with the oil tanker Agip Abruzzo. Among the many victims we want to mention only two women. The smallest passenger, Ilenia Canu, was only a year old. The oldest, Maria Marcon was eighty-three years old. The only survivor of this tragedy was the young Neapolitan hub Alessio Bertrand. Many victims were Sardinian, many other bells, seafarers. But the fact does not exist. In these twenty-four years, in which various political majorities have wasted time - this they have done - the dossier has been taken over only during the electoral periods. There has been nothing really and concretely done: a modus operandi at least shameful and unacceptable. According to many commentators, journalists and people who are aware of the facts, many aspects of the matter still remain to be clarified. To name a few, let us remember that the very causes of the collision between the two vessels are still to be clarified. There are thirteen minutes of silence, thirteen minutes impenetrable, between the exit of the ship from the port and the receipt of the mayday by the office. But the fact does not exist. Not only does it clarify the exact position of the oil tanker, the possible incidents of tampering committed in the immediacy of the facts and in the successive periods, and the slowness of the rescues, which delayed decisively in the rescues of the passengers of the Moby Prince. There is talk of more than an hour when no one realized that 140 people suffered in hellfire and flames. But the fact does not exist. Mr President, last of all I would like to stress that twenty-three years are a huge time, twenty-three years of inertia of the parliamentary classrooms. Only today, at last, in a Parliament made up of citizens thirsting for truth, is it decided to shed light on that tragic night. We hope, therefore, that, in the two years ahead of the Commission, the causes and responsibilities of that disaster will be finally clarified. We owe it, as parliamentarians and as citizens, to those 140 people. We owe it to all Italian citizens. The fact is. Let's ask for truth. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u66	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u67	Mr President, I have to say that we have finally arrived at the inclusion on the agenda of the measure establishing a Commission of Inquiry. We are happy and, at the same time, also excited about the task that Parliament will have to face. I would like to share some of the points, because the report by Senator Filippi has given a comprehensive indication of the text of the measure, particularly in the light of the work done in the Commission in the short term, as evidence of work shared between all the political groups, particularly with regard to the three political groups which have been promoting the documents for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry. We have a complicated and real task ahead of us, because this time we will have to try to make a real, concrete and effective contribution to the truth about the case of the Moby Prince, which represents the greatest Italian naval tragedy of the post-war period. It may seem trivial, but in this country, in which for seventy years republican history has been imbued with shadows, deviations and attempts to derail, the right to truth becomes fundamental, precisely in order to rebuild a healthy and renewed relationship between institutions and citizens. Moreover, today, our debate is also the natural continuation of certain commitments that we have all made in recent years, majority and opposition; commitments that have found solemn position taken in the words of President Grasso in his speech of settlement. And, therefore, for us this is an important starting point, because we are in a particular phase for our country and because it has been decided the descretation of acts on important investigations, such as the one on waste and the case of Ilaria Alpi. We therefore expect that this will also happen in the case of the Moby Prince, so that the Commission can actually work. And then we owe it to the families of the victims, but I would say to all Italian citizens, who have the right to know the truth and we have the duty to make our contribution. As has been mentioned, it is unacceptable that more than 20 years have passed since this tragedy and we have not yet been able to find an answer and a truth in the name of the 140 people who have lost their lives. In our opinion, this is unacceptable and unworthy of a civilised country. We at Left Ecology and Freedom did not like much the controversy that we have read in recent days, particularly in the local press. We didn't like them because we think that we should never speculate politically on such great tragedies. We think that all of us have only one great task: to keep to the commitments we have made, starting with those which we all, majority and opposition, have taken over these years and in particular in the current one, on the occasion of the celebrations of the anniversary in Livorno, the day after the unanimous adoption of the measure in the Commission. A few days ago Luchino Chessa, of the Association 10 April family members of the victims of the Moby Prince, as well as son of Ugo, the commander of the ship burned in the port of Livorno on 10 April 1991, after one of our bad votes that postponed the inclusion on the agenda of the measure establishing the Committee of Inquiry, wrote: I can only be dismayed and dismayed. I wonder how those who voted against having a conscience do. Perhaps they would have a different attitude if they had felt what we family members have been through in these twenty - four years. They just have to be ashamed! There's no excuse. Today we can say that I am not ashamed, that we are not all ashamed, because we have finally heard the request of the families and associations of the victims and today, in the name of the Italian people, we are here to represent their thirst and their strong need for truth, because we think that, at this stage, the country needs it strongly and that this can no longer be postponed. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u68	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u69	Mr President, the North League will make its contribution to the Commission, not least in order to finally give a voice to the many innocent people who, unfortunately, lost their lives in this immense tragedy that tragic night. However, we will do so with a certain critical spirit towards the Commission: from our point of view we believe that it is quite abnormal that the Parliament of a civil country - unfortunately too often happens in our country - should set up a Commission of inquiry to clarify such an important and tragic fact, in order to ascertain the truth and give an answer to the relatives of the tragically disappeared citizens, who, in these more than twenty years spent in limbo, have suffered the uncertainty of the truth. We will make our contribution and we really hope that the Commission will succeed in doing what we cannot do in the country, that is, giving the right answers, that a state and a civilized country must offer at times like this. I repeat, from our point of view, this has been quite abnormal. I would like to stress that a Commission is still active in this parliamentary term, trying to clarify, taking another road, the crime of Aldo Moro, to which we are taking part by making our contribution. We would like to stress that all too often, in this country, Parliament must enter into a field which should of course be satisfied by another part of civil society or the State and, at the same time, too often we see that, on matters which should affect Parliament directly and exclusively, another part of the State or civil society seeks to clarify. This is an anomaly that is all of our country. However, Mr President, even in full respect for the victims and the deep tragedy that marked so heavily that night and our country, we will make our contribution, in the hope that the country will succeed, in a future not too far away, to do without Commissions like this, acting as a serious and civil country and - let me say - in step with our European partners, to give the answers, which is right to give to citizens. We have not given them in over twenty years; there are too many shadows. We hope that there will be conditions and not everything will be reduced to a Commission which, with all the good will that we can put in place, will not be able to give the answers that the citizens are asking us for. We shall deal with this Commission with a cooperative spirit and with all the good will that - we believe - must accompany a Member of Parliament on this matter. Soon, as far as we are concerned, we were quite cold when this proposal was made, but not because of a cultural detachment or anything else, but because of the issues I said earlier. We will work in the Commission with the same commitment, in the hope that no one - on our part there will be - will be that sort of political emphasis or pseudospeculation, which too often in our country has accompanied this kind of Commissions. This would be truly harmful, as well as very offensive to our citizens who today are asking us for certain answers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u70	Mr President, this year I had the opportunity to take part in the day when you remember this event, and I must thank my colleague, Senator Paglini, for she insisted that I be present. I have to thank you because it was a lesson for me in life, because I had the certainty that if one wants one thing, if one insists on the truth, one gets results. Look, colleagues, it is not easy to have the strength to remember every year a strong event, to return against that rubber wall that every time, precisely because of rubber, makes you bounce back and return again to the starting point: the 140 association had the ability to continue, without ever stopping, because it was convinced that one day or another it would find parliamentarians finally ready to clarify this massacre. I call it massacre, using the words of the current mayor of Livorno, Filippo Nogarin, because I think it is the most appropriate word. We need to know how to use words with greater awareness. That of the Moby Prince was not a tragedy, but a massacre: so the mayor of Livorno began remembering those moments. It was 8:45. At the Camp Nou stadium, Barcelona and Juventus played the semi-finals of the Cup of Cups. At the beginning of the whistle the Moby Prince was still in the port of Livorno for the boarding operations. In the aftermath of the tragedy the media formulated the first hypothesis: human error, on the bridge of command were distracted, watched the game and did not notice the tanker. Hypothesis that will then be denied by the only survivor, the hub Alessio Bertrand: commander and officers were in their place, where they had some sandwiches brought for dinner. The hypothesis of distraction for the game, fought by the media, however, will remain incardinated in the collective imagination, without however finding official confirmation, as proof of how the media can lead away from the search for the truth (so, you journalists have a big responsibility, in every news you are responsible). As for the fog, we do not know if that day really there was this strange fog, fact is that the ship has sailed from the port of Livorno at 22.03 and the first May Day left from the Abruzzo Agip is 22.25 hours. There is talk of a collision of a dining room that crashed with the oil tanker and, as a result of this, a furious fire broke out on board. The marine sighter port of turn that night, however, speaks of calm sea and discreet visibility; therefore actually not only is it spoken of fog, but all this matter is wrapped by a smoke that has never allowed to see well what the truth was. The May Day leaves at 22.25 from the oil tanker Agip Abruzzo and is a may day misleading for three reasons. The first reason is that it indicates in a dining room the vessel that collided with the ship. It was like exchanging a bug with an elephant and then declaring Angelo Chessa, son of Moby's commander. The second reason is that the commander of the Agip concentrates the requests for aid on the tanker - we are on fire! - thus contributing to the delays in rescue to the passenger ship detected only an hour and twenty minutes after the collision. The third reason is that it indicates the position of the tanker with the bow to the south, a circumstance that, according to the reconstruction of the experts, according to the coordinates, would position the ship at the bottom, in a cone of water protected from the prohibition of anchoring and fishing in order not to hinder the channel of exit of the port. How is it possible, then, that there is an oil tanker at that point? At a later moment, the ship is positioned with the bow to the north. Impossible to ascertain where the truth lies, also because later Commander Renato Superina makes use of the faculty not to answer. Moreover, the tanker did not have the lights on, a circumstance that - again - poses more than a doubt about the actual presence of the fog on that night. The day after the massacre, the control of Moby's autopilot is changed from manual to automatic. The perpetrator of this maneuver, then identified, will plead guilty confession. On the ferry the watch and the black box disappear, various pieces are replaced, including some plastic valves. Among the hypotheses that emerged to explain the unjustifiable chaos of that night, there is also the arms trade, a thesis that emerged in 2006. As Moby came out of the harbor, the activity in that sea mirror was so intense that radar was losing control. There was talk of three American ships returning from the Gulf War, but then it was established that the American ships sailing would actually be seven. There was October 2, an Italo-Somala ship that had to make the shuttle for the fish and on which it would then investigate journalist Ilaria Alps for alleged trade in toxic waste and weapons; there was the ghost ship Theresa, never tracked down, except then ascertain that it was the Gallant 2, a US military ship that after the alarm departed from the area. The last aspect that I face before ending is that of the rescues, the most dramatic of this intricate story: an hour and twenty to realize that there was a ship adrift, in flames and charged of people: 66 members of the crew and 75 passengers. A fault that has been tried to erase claiming that, after thirty minutes, on board they were all dead, circumstance denied by the analyses of the experts. Mr President, once again, I recall the words of the Mayor of Livorno: We need to know how to use words with greater awareness. The Moby Prince was not a tragedy, but a massacre. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u71	Senator Amidei is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we can only welcome the establishment of this Commission. On the Moby Prince disaster, in fact, the judiciary seems to have given up for years already. Families, relatives, friends of the 140 victims and all of us have long been claiming justice. I would like to take a brief look at the facts, although some of them have already been mentioned. Twenty-four years have passed and perhaps not everyone remembers what happened on the evening of April 10, 1991, and perhaps they do not know or do not know that not everything is clear, not everything is taken for granted. Leaving the port of Livorno, around 22.20, the ferry Moby Prince, with 141 people on board, between travelers and crew, hits the bow, as has already been mentioned, of the oil tanker Agip Abruzzo. The strong impact causes the oil tanker to escape tons of crude oil that invest the ferry, and due to the rubbing of the ships, they catch fire. This is a version. Due to the burning and its effects all passengers and all crew members die, except for one survivor, the young Neapolitan hub Alessio Bertrand. The Commission, which we hope will be established today, must serve to clarify not only the causes of the accident (the position of the oil tanker has not been definitively established, it is not certain what the weather conditions were), but also on a number of still obscure points on which, as we have said, the judiciary has not been able to reach the truth. For example, the safety equipment of the Moby Prince has never been clarified, if it were sufficient, in accordance with the laws and perfectly functioning. It has not been clarified, still, because the rescues have delayed to arrive, considering moreover that the accident has happened in the harbor harbor and not in open sea. The responsibility for misleading or concealing elements useful for the investigation is not certain. And again, the presence of numerous ships in the harbor on the night of the collision has not been clarified, some of which are foreign and, it seems, under false name, neither the mystery of the presence of the ship Theresa, not recorded in the port of Livorno, but of which there are audio traces related to the accident. In conclusion (but this is not really a conclusion, because I hope it will be the continuation of an investigation that must find absolutely clear), the accident of the ferry Moby Prince remains, until today, a huge disaster of which little or nothing is known. The only certainty is to know the gigantic number of people who lost their lives on that occasion. That is why, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe it is useful, appropriate and necessary to set up this parliamentary committee of inquiry, which will not have the task of condemning or absolving anyone but the absolute and indispensable task of rebuilding the facts. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u73	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cuomo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u74	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the previous speeches, the events of that tragic 10 April 1991 have also been reported with a great deal of detail. In my memories, not only as a citizen, but also as a representative of the institutions, especially in a period long after the tragedy, there was the civic activity of the city of Livorno, with its mayors. The current mayor, whom I did not know, and the former mayor Cosimi, several times invited the organizations of the various victims - the 140 victims who left their lives in that part of the sea because of that tragic fire - to participate in demonstrations to keep the attention alive and to be of comfort to that committee of victims who, pervicaciously and tenaciously, wanted to fight in recent years for the recognition of a truth not only procedural, but also civic. I believe that it is an act of great institutional and political civilization that we set up a Commission of Inquiry, which comes very late to accept the facts and to open a glimmer of light in an affair that is part of one of the many cases of malpractice in Italy. It is not imaginable that the fact does not exist, where there is talk of serious problems, such as those which occurred, and which were narrated, during that tragic night. I very much appreciated Mr Filippi's report; a heartfelt report, not the cold analysis of a measure to be put to the vote in a distracted Senate Chamber. I also very much appreciated the intervention of Senator Cioffi and the interventions that followed, from any political part could have come. It is an act of great political and institutional civilization to open an investigation and a glimpse of light on a truth underlying judicial classrooms that did not want to fully understand what the responsibilities could be. I have been the mayor of a seaside town and today I am a Member of Parliament: I know how important safety is in the workplace and how important the sea is as a resource; unfortunately the sea is a resource for a few and a grave for many (and we see it tragically, with what happens in the Mediterranean). This commission of investigation will have to ascertain not only the truth, but also and above all to ensure that in the future the nautical means and this extraordinary resource that is the sea can see own traffics and own activities in the full safety of the passengers and also of those who work every day. I believe that this Commission must reaffirm the right of a country to know the truth about those events and the massacres. Mr Grasso, Mr Filippi, Mr Cioffi, Mr Puglia and others, all of whom have signed two different motions, is in this spirit, trying to tear down those rubber walls, that the Senate will set up a Commission which will not only have the task of making light and clarity on what happened during that tragic night, but will also have to stimulate specific investigations into the safety of nautical vehicles at all levels of traffic and tonnage so that what happened that night cannot be cataloged as a natural disaster and the responsibility of those who did not guarantee the safety of those means and of those who did not guarantee that the relief took place with the speed that the case required. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Gaetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u75	The debate is closed. As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in his reply, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u76	Mr President, the Commission of Inquiry, which is intended to be set up, is concerned with a major crime at sea. Senator Puglia used the term "strage" and I think it's appropriate. It is a parliamentary act which is widely shared, as has also been seen from the speeches, which, of course, I have shared and appreciated. The Government appreciates this parliamentary act of setting up the Commission and appreciates the way in which the rapporteur has proposed it to the House. I agree - as I said - with the speeches of the various Members who have spoken. It is an act that with stubbornness seeks the truth where justice has not been. I would like to thank the Members who took the initiative, which is an act of responsibility to the victims and their families. In fact, it is an act of responsibility that seeks justice and speaks to all Italians. The government will give all the help the Commission will need to fill this emptiness of truth that has been going on for too long, a time that is truly unacceptable and which should disturb - and I believe it is disturbing - the civic consciences of each of us and of every citizen who looks at these events without justice with great concern. In this sense there is the commitment of the Government and the hope that this Commission will reach where others have not arrived. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u77	We shall proceed with the examination of the articles in the unified text proposed by the Commission. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u80	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to speak, without going too far, to reiterate what has been said in the general debate. The Group of the North League will participate in the Commission, which is intended to be set up in the right spirit, because it is right that this should be so. We owe it to the many, too many victims who have been affected by this terrible tragedy. As I said in the general debate, we will work with the right critical spirit, because we believe that after more than 20 years we must set up an ad hoc Commission to clarify this matter and give the right response to the victims and their relatives is the failure of those who were to give these answers. For our part, however, there will be no lack of commitment, in the right way and also in the right critical spirit, without any political speculation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u83	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the Mixed Left Ecology and Freedom Group will vote in favour of the provision of the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the tragic disaster of the Moby Prince ferry. We do this by reminding the victims and their families, who have turned to the institution to try to rip that fog that, on that tragic day, has covered and made difficult to decipher the dynamics of that tragic fact. We thank the Senate and all the senators, as well as you, Mr President, for your commitment to this issue, which is one of the many issues that need truth. We believe that this work, as will the Commission which will be set up, will be able to link the democratic institutions even better and more to the citizens they represent. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u86	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, there are events that cannot be forgotten: they remain carved inside and there is no peace until we can give certain answers to our own why. We refuse, as citizens, to face continuous rubber walls in the face of unsolved massacres; and there are still too many in this country. Moby Prince, 1991, 140 people who are not among us today because on a cursed night, that of April 10, perished in a horrible way; and to date we still have no culprit. Mr President, on the day of the last commemoration in Livorno, I also attended Mass, a mass which has been taking place for twenty-four very long years now. The people present, or at least most, were elderly people, women and men with white hair, gathered in the umpteenth prayer, perhaps asking the Divine answers that men have to give. I have met people who every year, every day, relive the pain, an infinite pain, that only a mother, a father or a brother can experience; that atrocious sense of impotence in the face of the death of one's loved one and the atrocious sense of impotence in finding that no one, to date, has been able to give a certain answer about who was responsible for so much pain. The fact does not exist, it was the answer of the investigations. The collision of the Moby Prince ferry cannot be classified as an accident. In the last commemoration of April 10, I noticed that there were many young people; the very young people present were probably not even born in that very distant 1991, and probably the person who is no longer there had been told to them, with infinite love, by those who today want to continue to live the greatest of affections. Seeing the presence of young generations amplifies the distance between pain and the need for truth and daily renews our sense of responsibility and need for justice. On the ferry Moby Prince, sailed that night from the port of Livorno, there were not only people, there were lives, there were hopes, there were parents with their children, they had dreams in the drawer, there were young people who were to get married, started with in mind, who knows, perhaps their future honeymoon, there were fathers who had just spoken on the phone with their child who stayed at home, there were careful workers intent on carrying out their role as a seafarer with dedication. Many people do not know that this was also the greatest tragedy at work. At 22.03 the ferry broke off the pier to face a journey of only 2.6 miles, which would be his last trip. Mr President, I have never had the chance to see all 140 coffins in a row. In those days, in the city of Livorno, I think one of the most terrifying scenes a human being can imagine. I can imagine, for those who have remained, that the image of that great ship anchored in the port of Livorno may have been unbearable, with the strong smells of irrespirable fumes, crumpled sheets, arses, imbued with silence and death: a gigantic spaceship of evil landed from hell. In all these years, there are those who have cried out their pain and their thirst for just justice. The various procedural procedures have not given the expected answers, since there is not yet a guilty party to this massacre. Victims' associations have launched this viral message: "Moby Prince," 140 dead and no culprit; gentlemen, we work today in this legislature to finally put the banner that they have been carrying in their commemorations for twenty-four years. What many fail to grasp is the absurdity of the events: a ferry that hits a tanker a few meters from the coast, burns, goes out of control; the call for help for radio, which spreads disturbed; the rescues that do not arrive; boats engaged in rada in operations and ambiguous movements (it had been at the end of the Gulf War); other boats that are there and some escapes leaving the area. Those who arrive and see the ferry on fire are unable to obtain the prompt intervention of other means of rescue. Meanwhile on board 140 people try to shelter themselves from the flames: they will burn alive within a really long time and close to the coast to be able to consider all this an accident. If it happened in the open sea, in sea conditions force 9, or because of an iceberg, perhaps I could make it a more easily reason, helped by the mental representation of the context, but in the case of the Moby Prince no, a few miles from the dock no, with other ships present in the same mirror of sea no, with a ferry fired visible from the coast no! 140 people couldn't have died in ten minutes. This cannot be accepted only as a tragic accident. Humanly, I can't. This is just one of the innumerable comments of those who touched this tragedy closely. To liquidate this memory by blaming the fog or a crew distracted by a football match is unacceptable. In 1991 in the waters in front of the port of Livorno 140 people lost their lives at the stake following the collision of the ship Moby Prince with the oil tanker Agip Abruzzo. I would remind you that already in the thirteenth legislature some proposals for parliamentary inquiry on the matter were presented; precisely in 1997 a first political attempt was made to shed light on this affair, but with a negative result, to the point of defining this massacre the "Ustica del mare." Why didn't these proposals follow? What was not possible in 1997, I hope will be possible today, because the need to clarify what happened is also shared by the second office of the State, by yourself President Grasso, who rightly stated in 2013 the need for the establishment of a Commission of inquiry into the unsolved massacres in Italy. Accepting your invitation, President Grasso, together with the requests for truth and justice that come from the family members of the victims of the ship, today finally, after twenty-four years, we are faced with the vote in this Chamber to give life to this Commission of single-cameral inquiry, even if as a 5 Star Movement Group we had proposed a bicameral inquiry, with the presentation of our bill No 1423 of 2014, which perhaps would have had an even more complete and qualified composition, being integrated also with the members of the Chamber of Deputies. However, of course, our explanation of vote is in favour and I would add that it is about time. Gentlemen, we hope that at least once the word 'justice' can be properly celebrated. It is also necessary for memory, this memory, to continue to be protected. Here I want to publicly thank the family members of the victims who have never given up a step in the pressing request of this inquiry; I thank all the family members, members of the associations 10 April - family victims Moby Prince and I are 141; a warm thanks goes to Mr Angelo and Luchino Chessa, sons of Commander Ugo Chessa, but also to all those who have never given up, to the citizens of Livorno who have struggled for the truth in recent years. If this committee of inquiry is finally part of today, it is thanks to your perseverance and your and our indignation at receiving as an answer to the slaughter the formula that the fact does not exist. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The relatives of the 140 victims of the greatest tragedy of the Italian marines of the post-war period, after various filings by prosecutors and courts, today they wait at least for a historical reconstruction of these last twenty-four years and today perhaps finally there are the political conditions not to pull us away from our responsibility as legislators. Finally, let me give one last, fraternal hug and thanks to the citizen Loris Rispoli [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] that gave me the best chance to play my role as spokesperson and that he was able to convey to me his infinite compassion and passion in the search for truth and justice. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u89	Matteoli (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it may seem absurd - and perhaps it is - to propose after twenty-four years the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the causes of the disaster of the Moby Prince ferry, after the trials have been carried out without ever finding the person responsible or those responsible. As has already been mentioned, on 20 November 1996 the House received a similar request, signed by more than 100 Members, but it was never possible to set up that Commission. As has been said, there have been trials: we understand, I believe that none of us wanted any culprit; we wanted the culprit, if the culprit was there. In my opinion, however, it is also necessary to explain why, after so many years, we are in favour of setting up this Commission. Let us look at what happened, for example, on 8 September 1992, when the Committee of the Victims' Family, which held a demonstration in Livorno on 10 April each year - even if the term is improper - to commemorate that tragic anniversary, wrote this letter: After the disaster, as is sadly in use in our country, many hypotheses about the events of that Wednesday night have begun to fade. It would be too long and painful to summarize them all. Many have, unfortunately, proved to be sick and twisted fantasies; many have followed the normal course of these grievous occasions. So the human error was theorized, conditioned by the fact that that evening on the television screens was planned an important football match. (...) Then there was a talk of a fantastic little table that could have crossed the ferry causing a turn from which he had not recovered in time ending against Agip Abruzzo. It was argued that the latter vessel was at its base in an area not permitted. There's been talk of a mechanical failure at the Moby Prince. I mean, there's been a lot of talk. "But, beyond these tragic explanations" - concludes the letter - "the task of judges and technicians appointed by the court, what shocked the national public opinion was the slowness of the rescue, the difficulty with which they left and the sad outcome to which these deficiencies led. Who knows Livorno, who knows the place where all this happened knows that, starting from the Mascagni terrace, by swimming, you would surely arrive before the rescue arrived. This is a reality that no one can refute: a swimmer, not even of great ability, would have arrived long before the rescue. When all this happened, during the night, we parliamentarians were warned of the accident - then there were the districts of Livorno, Pisa, Lucca and Massa Carrara - and we went to Livorno: the ferry had been taken to port, but, at a distance of meters, the heat of the fire was still felt and on the ferry there were bodies incinerated. None of us have ever been able to explain. However, there is something worse that has happened and that is why it is right that this Commission should be set up. There was in fact an admiral, responsible for the port of Livorno at that moment, who from the first hours after the terrible tragedy released discordant and incredible statements, as a drunk can do in front of a story like this. On April 11, the admiral declared: It was the bow of the ferry, because of the fog, that spurred the tanker. It was so thick that I couldn't see the stern from the bow of my motorboat. The next day, on April 12, he declared: The thick fog may have obscured everything, including electronic systems such as radars. And on April 14, the same officer declared: The visibility was good. Now, the rapporteur, Filippi, was born in Livorno. I was born near there, but I still know the area. And in that area, believe me, Mr President, in so many years I have never seen the fog. This admiral was also able to invent the fog. Most likely even our investigation will not lead to find the truth, but we owe it to those family members and also to the whole city of Livorno. Because the city of Livorno, whatever the political color of Livorno, this story feels in its own guts. I repeat, in fact, that it is impossible to think that a ferry burns and that only one person is saved who, without even being able to understand how, has remained clinging somewhere. But it is not possible that 140 people died 500 meters from the shore, burn alive! It is impossible and, twenty-four years later, none of us can be resigned to how this happened. Therefore, the establishment of this Commission, even if it will not bring the desired results, will certainly serve, at least to those families and to a whole city. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, PD and CRI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u92	LAI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party will vote strongly in favour of the establishment of this Committee of Inquiry into the Moby Prince tragedy. We do this with conviction, thanking some of the protagonists of this choice that the Senate is about to make; thanking, first of all, the whole Senate, which until now has voted unanimously; thanking the Transport Commission, which has carried on this proposal; thanking Luigi Manconi and the first signatories of the other measures presented at the beginning of this legislature; and thanking Senator Filippi, who was rapporteur in the Commission and then here in the Chamber, and who pervicaciously carried on this initiative together with other Groups; thanking the President of the PD Group, Senator Zanda, who made a commitment last week and who confirmed it today, bringing home this important result: and thanking the President of the Senate, who has worked hard and has worked hard to get this work done. It is now Parliament as a whole that is voting in favour of the establishment of this Commission and this unity will be very useful for the results to be achieved. I am convinced that this will not be a Commission that will bring no results. I am convinced that there are many new elements and many important signs that need to be grasped, facts that have not been taken into account during the judicial process, facts that have been brought out lately and that today can say more pieces of truth. In any case, we are making a commitment in a parliamentary term that has also seen the President-in-Office make new choices, with respect to documents that have been secreted up to now, to information and data that had not been possible up to now. Therefore, it is a new phase that can lead to truth that up to this moment have not been represented. A commitment made by the PD, confirmed in recent days and respected. But also an answer to some useless controversy and some unmotivated accusation, such as the one that had again emerged last week and that can only be justified by the pain, which strikes and that has affected these people in recent years. But the PD remained with a clear cold blood and maintained the commitment it had made. We will vote in favour, also because there is a debt to the family members of the victims of that tragedy, who have been left without guilt, as many people have said, without responsibility and without answers to the many open questions. In the face of pain, there are people who react in one way and people who react in another; the reactions are different. However, in the face of such great pain, these questions, which have no answers, leave the wounds open. And those open wounds have led in recent years family associations to always keep awake the conscience of each of us, of the institutions, of politics. They continued a battle not for themselves, not for personal justice, but above all for an important truth, which unfortunately the judicial path did not represent. We always say that the sentences are respected, but, unfortunately, when they are the sign of impotence, the truth of the case is not enough. I do not know whether this was a case of malpractice, we do not know that; I hope that the Commission can clarify this too. But I know that it can be the task of politics, when the truth does not give satisfaction, when the case is not enough, to fill that wound and that pain that keeps it so open. There are many questions and many hypotheses that need to be examined and that the Commission will have to consider, because there are too many open questions about why there was that confrontation, but especially about the following - as has been said authoritatively - about what happened after the confrontation. The judgment on human error cannot be sufficient. It may be; but human error alone would not have generated, on its own, what happened then. Without the inadequate conditions of the ship that emerged, without innumerable malfunctions and anomalies it would not have come to this; without the tampering of the established places it would not have been so difficult to clearly determine the responsibilities in court. And, without the delay of those rescues (a few swims), this would not have been the number of victims. It cannot therefore be accepted that it is only the conduct of individuals that is the cause of this tragedy; a judgment such as that which says that the fact does not exist cannot be accepted. The rapporteur, Senator Filippi, said it well: there can be no prescription for pain, but above all there can be no prescription if the pain is caused by a catastrophe, by a massacre like this. Only justice and truth can soothe that pain. Now, this is a catastrophe far away in time and I know that in some people it can also dwell on the idea that it is a distant fact, in some ways even a minor one, of which not everyone remembers perfectly the feeling in those years, a feeling that has struck the city of Livorno and I add, as Sardinian, also Sardinia. There were many Sardinian families on that ship, because at that time it was not possible that it was the planes to transfer and allow to reach Sardinia to people in economic conditions not particularly suitable. There were many humble families, with many Sardinian children, who returned to Sardinia. So it is something that certainly struck the feeling of a city like Livorno as much as the feeling of Sardinia; but I think it has affected the whole of Italy. I was saying that the idea can dwell on the fact that a fact so far in time can make it useless to look for the truth again twenty-four years later and engage Parliament in this. But, look, there's something more. I think that such an affair cannot be left unanswered not only for people, but above all for the dignity of the State, because a State cannot forget to give an answer to any of its children and cannot forget any of its children. This Commission will have an important task, because it will have to look for answers without prejudice (I say this with conviction); it will have to look for them having the consciousness that an activity is being carried out that is born together and that I think can lead to unity also in the conclusions of its work. It will be important that the policy, which through that Commission can write, as the Senate is writing today, a nice page, concludes that beautiful page by uniting its work. Unity is a real challenge for politics, an exemplary challenge in clarity, an exemplary challenge arising from the choices we are making at the moment. It is a Commission which has important tasks, as I said, which we will firmly support and which will have the gaze of many Italians on itself. And we feel the responsibility for this look. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u95	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u96	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the unified text of documents XXII, Nos. 14, 17 and 18, under the following heading: The establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the causes of the disaster of the Moby Prince ferry. (The vote was followed). It's approved. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u99	Mr Azzollini (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would just like to say that my intention was to vote in favour of the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry into the causes of the disaster on the Moby Prince ferry, but, although I am here, I did not, by mistake, activate the voting mechanism. I therefore ask that my vote remain firmly in favour of the proceedings. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that, Senator Azzollini. [[Senator Susta points out that he wants to intervene.]] Was Senator Susta wrong to vote too? SUSTA (PD). Yes, Mr President, I too wanted to vote in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that, Senator Susta.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u100	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1997. The rapporteurs, Senators Compagna and Vattuone, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Compagna.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u101	Mr President, this measure is aimed at ensuring the participation of military personnel in the European Union operation in the Mediterranean called EUNAVFOR MED from 27 June to 30 September 2015, the expiry date of the decree covering all the missions in which our country participates. Hence the greater importance for all related aspects of what my colleague, the rapporteur for the 4th standing Commission, will say with greater prestige than I do. I would just like to remind you that this is a military operation decided by the Council of the European Union on 18 May last, with the aim of dismantling the networks of traffic and trafficking in human beings in the Mediterranean - a subject that has been bounced several times in this House - by means of systematic measures to identify, stop and eliminate the vessels and means used by traffickers. The operation will be carried out through successive phases, the first of which is aimed at the identification and monitoring of migration networks, the second involves arrests, inspections and seizures of suspicious vessels and the third phase is directed to the elimination of the means used for the traffic, also in the Libyan territory. While the first phase of the mission is already authorised by the European Union decision of 18 May last, the second and third phases of the operation can only be carried out through the authorisation of the United Nations Security Council or with the consent of Libya. 18.48 p.m. (Follow Companion) It is expected that the operation will work in close coordination with other bodies and agencies of the European Union, including Frontex and Europol and was entrusted to the Italian command, in view of the credibility of our armed forces and, of course, also the objective and particular exposure of our country. It is therefore a measure, which makes tangible the further assumption of Italian responsibility, in the action to combat trafficking and trafficking in human beings in the Mediterranean, which has been mentioned several times in this House. Many aspects of our foreign policy and national interests today have as their objective what is taking place in the Mediterranean. Addressing the challenges that this season of political and institutional instability is reserving to the countries that face the former sea nostrum must be an absolute priority of Italian politics. I would add that it is precisely to the Mediterranean issue that our Foreign Commission has dedicated a round of informal hearings in the context of an assigned affair - it is parliamentary terminology - and that the reorientation of European neighbourhood policies on the Mediterranean has been the subject of a special resolution, signed by my colleague, Mr Verducci, which we have recently approved. I therefore leave the floor to my colleague in the Defence Committee for the strictly military aspects of the measure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Vattuone.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis situation in the central Mediterranean area caused by the continuing internal conflict in Libya is of course well known, and among the consequences of this state of crisis there is certainly the exponential growth of the migratory flow that, through Libya, reaches the coast and, by sea, then tries to reach the countries of the European Union, Italy in particular. This increased migratory flow is facilitated, and above all exploited economically by unscrupulous traffickers, who profit from every human being who tries to embark on this journey. The consequence of this state of affairs, as is well known to all, is the repetition of dramatic shipwrecks, with the deaths of hundreds, and more probably thousands, of migrants, often a few sea miles from the starting point from Libya. On the basis of a strong direction expressed on several occasions by Parliament, also here, the Government has endeavoured to ensure that the European Union finally becomes fully aware of the particular crisis situation in this region by arriving at the decision, as the previous colleague reminded me, of 18 May, when the European Council defined the general framework for a military crisis management operation. The EUNAVFOR MED mission, which is the subject of this measure, has its legal basis in the decision of the European Council, as I have just said, whereby a European Union military operation in the central-southern Mediterranean is authorised, with the aim of dismantling trade based on trafficking and trafficking in human beings, by adopting systematic measures to identify, stop and eliminate means and vessels used by traffickers, in accordance with international law. The mission shall include three successive phases and shall coordinate with other bodies and agencies of the European Union, in particular Frontex, Europol, Eurojust and the European Asylum Support Office and the relevant Common Security and Defence Policy Missions. The subsequent CFSP decision of 22 June 1972 therefore decided to initiate the mission. The act in question stipulates that it is for the Council to decide whether the conditions for progress beyond the first phase of the mission are met, whereas the decision on the carrying out of transitions between the various phases of the operation is entrusted to the Political Security Committee. The mission is complex and very articulated and will see more European countries operating. Italy has a role as a leading nation; the operational command of the mission is in fact in Rome and the mission itself is commanded by the admiral of division Enrico Credendino. The decree-law before Parliament authorizes the performance of the mission from 27 June to 30 September 2015; in practice we align everything with the expiry of the mission decree, scheduled for that date, so it is a matter of granting an authorisation of only three months. Article 1 provides for provisions concerning the authorisation of expenditure and the reference to the national legislation applicable to the mission, in analogy to the fact that already provided for in the Italian Decree-Laws on participation in other international operations. In particular, paragraph 1 carries the authorisation of expenditure (26 million euros in the period 27 June-30 September 2015) and commits about 1,020 staff units; paragraph 2 recalls the provisions to be applied to the military operation, which are the classic ones of the mission decrees and which concern staff, criminal discipline and accounting discipline. Paragraphs 3 and 4 shall therefore bear the financial cover of the mission during the period considered. In particular, for 19 million euros, the coverage is found in the fund for international missions referred to in article 1, paragraph 1240, of the law n. 296 of 2006; for seven million euros, the coverage derives instead from the use of the sums related to refunds paid by the United Nations as consideration of the performances rendered by the Armed Forces in international operations Finally, Article 2 sets the time limit for the measure to enter into force. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the planning carried out at European level, each European country has made available a series of military capabilities that are necessary for such a complex operation. Italy intends to contribute by making available the operating headquarters and the aircraft carrier Cavour, with some aircraft boarded, which will be supported by an aircraft device composed of a submarine, two aircraft remotely piloted, sanitary supports boarded and on the ground and logistic resources in the bases of Augusta, Sigonella and Pantelleria. But at last we can say that we are not alone: 14 European nations have already expressed their will to contribute to the aircraft device and - I would like to remind you - will be commanded on board the Cavour by a high Italian and Ligurian officer - to give a territorial connotation to me very dear - which responds to the name of Rear Admiral Andrea Gueglio. We can therefore well say that the decision taken at European level on 22 June last finally responds to the request made several times by the Italian Parliament for a real and incisive involvement of Europe in the current crisis situation in the Central Mediterranean. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u103	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Alicata is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senators, Secretary-General, we have already anticipated in the Commission that we are likely to vote in favour of this measure, despite the many doubts raised about a European Union military initiative in the Central Mediterranean which should help to dismantle the smuggling of migrants by measures to identify, stop and eliminate vessels and the means used or suspected of being used by traffickers. An initiative that, however, is not born, since the military action envisaged in the draft law under consideration is composed of three phases and the one currently put in place is only the first one that will limit itself to collecting intelligence information. The other two stages, which are the core of the problem or should help solve it, will only start if and when the United Nations Security Council resolutions are in place, as well as the approval of some European Parliaments, including probably ours. That is, the naval mission under Italian command will be limited only to collecting information on the traffickers of men, but if they do not start the two successive phases, which include interventions in Libyan waters or on the Libyan territory, we are talking, President, of fried air from the cost of 26 million euros. The fundamental step remains then the new desired nascent Libyan Unitary Government, which should make the request for intervention; Government that, despite the efforts of the UN High Representative Bernardino León, is beyond to come. In this period of time, what will happen, in anticipation of the Security Council resolution, on which, moreover, can affect the right of veto of Russia and China, which have already expressed opposition to any force intervention in Libya? In the meantime, perhaps the mission could turn into a new Mare nostrum with all that has involved this mission on the incentive effects of the migratory phenomenon. What will the fleet do in case of drifting boats? It will certainly help, as international standards and humanitarian law require. In that case, however, the naval device would certainly be weakened in order to enable ships to rescue boats in difficulty. So, Mr Undersecretary, some aspects should be clarified. Then, Mr President, when presenting this draft law, it refers, with an out of place emphasis, to an Italian push; there is talk of constant Italian pressure, without which the European Council would not have adopted CFSP Decision No 778 of 2015 transposed into the draft law under consideration. But never! The much praised Italian semester, as it is before the eyes of all, has passed painfully in vain, precisely with reference to the measures to be taken to stop the traffic of migrants, and no one has noticed any Italian or European initiatives to put an embankment to the phenomenon. It was, vice versa, a useless, unheard continuous barking at the moon by the many professional words (of one in particular), which make up this Government of the blah blah, devoid of the albeit minimal international importance. Italy, apart from the six months of the European Presidency, remained for a year and a half as a spectator of what was happening in Libya, to the point of assisting as a neutral observer at the coup which forced the legitimate Government to flee to Tobruk. Yet, even the United States had given, at the time, as is well known by the Undersecretary Minniti, an unofficial mandate to Italy to deal with Libya. But that ghost of Minister of Foreign Affairs of the time, who today is a million non-existent merits and contributions on the hypothesis of nuclear agreement with Iran, did everything except deal with Libya and - I add - our two maroons. We had tabled two amendments to the Commission so that the naval mission, in the absence of the UN resolutions, would be more clearly marked with regard to the objectives and timing. The amendments have been rejected, but yet Forza Italia will once again make the sense of responsibility prevail over foreign and security policy issues, especially for the deep respect for our Armed Forces, certainly not towards a Government without the slightest international authority. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u105	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u106	Mr President, this decree-law arrives in this House with incredible speed and urgency; we discussed it a few days ago in the Commission and no one knew that it would be incardinated, a little overtaking the order of the other proceedings of this House. This is a very important and very interesting measure for us, but the most interesting aspect is that it entered into force on 22 June, that is about a month ago; and the urgency of the treatment did not allow us to go and recover some material. In June, the League, in full progress of the operation Triton in the Mediterranean, said that it is all wrong, that you must avoid the deaths, block the migrants before they leave with the famous naval blockade and negotiate with the legitimate governments or anyway with those who rule more or less legally in the countries of the ports of departure. We would probably be able to collect a list, a very long list of well-thought-outs who took positions with regard to the naval blockade and said that it cannot be rejected at sea, but we must help people because we are not barbarians. But no one here is barbaric. The problem is that none of these thinkers would have imagined that we would get there, because Europe is now imposing this on us with the CFSP decision that we are implementing with this measure. As the North League, we must say that we are particularly satisfied because, although a little slowly, there is a recognition of all our positions and of all the reasons that, so far, we have pointed out, not all of them in a block, but for deletions. Let's start from the first, Mare nostrum: Italy starts and we give this humanitarian characterization we save the people loaded on the carts of the sea. The League immediately objects: and the problem of the Mediterranean, immigration, the difference between North and South and the attraction that our countries exert towards other populations? In fact, here we are not talking about those who run away from wars, political refugees or asylum seekers, but about those who try to find luck in another country in an illegal way, that is, illegal immigrants. The League poses the problem: it is not that only Italy can take charge of all these problems, also because we are not able to accommodate them. Well, despite the suddenness, accusations and objections in the end, our observations are being transposed and we are beginning to argue that, it is true, it is not only Italy that can cope with everything, also because we could not afford the 10 million euros per month that cost Mare nostrum operation. The operation, at this point, assumes another characterization: Europe itself, through Frontex, takes charge of it and the new operation is no longer Mare nostrum (even if the aims are identical), but Triton, which involves the entire European community. Well, an approach to the positions supported by the League. However, the League continues to ask to distinguish: we help people who have a title to remain in this country, but let's verify these titles, before people embark favoring crime and those who speculate on the trafficking of human beings, knowing that many deaths will inevitably happen in the Mediterranean; we do these checks in the countries of origin. But, in order to do the checks and to set up the reception camps, we must create a naval blockade: if they cannot leave, they will stop there and there we will do all the operations. We know - because it is very recent news, of these last days and of the last weeks - the objections raised on the naval blockades, even if veiled some newspaper, a little more objective, had leaked even the positions of the United Nations that, through the Commissioner spokesman, Bernardino Leòn, claimed that the only way to face this phenomenon, meanwhile, is to create a naval blockade; after that, in one country or another ( Nigeria, Niger or any other country), we realize reception camps and verify who has title. We will host the very few - about 10% - who have the right to asylum as political refugees or fleeing humanitarian emergencies, but 90% have to deal with them in another way and we cannot get them there. Very well, the UN, through León, says these things but, vox clamantis in the desert, nobody listens to it. Now comes the position of the European Political and Security Committee, which requires us to understand what? Exactly what we were asking for: a naval blockade. We do not call it a naval blockade; it is not a matter of soup or wet bread or terminology, but the mission is carried out in just three stages. First phase: monitoring of migration networks and gathering information. Second phase: patrol on the high seas, with stops, inspections, kidnappings and hijackings of suspected vessels. Third phase: adoption of all necessary measures with regard to vessels and means, including their elimination and making them practically unusable. More than that, honestly, we never asked, we never went any further. Therefore, it is a good thing that the well-thought-out Italy, at least under pressure from the UN and Europe, should do the only thing that we could and should do, perhaps with a wide margin in advance. If we can dare to raise objections, the first would be: But why do we end this operation on September 30th? I have heard the rapporteurs telling me that we are likely to engage the period of stay with the approvals of all international missions. Being that ends on September 30, we also organize and finance this until September 30, unless we know that September 30 is not all over because the emergency is over or because the migratory flows have suddenly disappeared. We would like to make our contribution, but we cannot do so because it was only in the early afternoon, after 1 p.m. today, that the Group leaders decided to bring this measure to the House and no one could be prepared to table amendments because there would be no time to do so and the possibility of intervening with corrections on the conversion of this decree. As a League we have tabled an agenda which calls for a very simple thing, which I think the Government will be able to accept with the constraint that comes from an agenda. We ask that, after 15 days, i.e. by 15 October, the Government should be able to communicate all data relating to kidnappings, detentions, ship removals and all other measures taken to understand development. The Chambers would like to know how this operation proceeds and what kind of results it will have. Honestly, all I could do was rejoice. On behalf of all the colleagues of the League I say: finally a measure that goes in the right direction. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u107	Senator Cotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following us from outside, we are faced with yet another measure which should solve a problem which is not clear whether to save lives at sea or to contain immigration in Italy. In fact, we have set up a three-stage operation, of which I sincerely do not understand the usefulness and not even the operation, because we are sending a ship like the Cavour, along with a contingent of about a thousand military. We're talking about a ship whose only move requires a lot of money. It's a warship with people on board prepared to do the military and not do rescue operations at sea. Probably some will also be competent on these things, but the military are not actually prepared for the function, because it is not their specific task to save people at sea. We do not even understand how well the three phases should be articulated. The first phase of the identification and monitoring of immigration networks is discussed. There is probably no need to spend EUR 26 million on such a thing. The second phase should be a kind of boat blockade. I do not understand how we should block boats full of people who risk falling into the sea, unless we block them at the start, but we know that it is very difficult to identify them at that time. We do not understand what should be done in the third, which is the one in which we should make boats unusable. We know that most of these boats are abandoned by the same boatmen who lead them and then once the boatmen have escaped there is no need to make them unusable. In my opinion, this is an operation that is all facadeded. It serves to turn some money into the military system, which is always useful to someone, but in fact we are throwing away for the umpteenth time a package of 26 million euros in order not to solve anything. Immigrants will continue to arrive. Maybe some more will be saved at sea. But there is no need for a warship like the Cavour to save people at sea. We are therefore faced with a completely useless measure and a great waste. Certainly, as has already happened with so many others of these operations made around the world, also this will not give the results hoped for. For these reasons, the movement of which I am a member cannot give confidence to such an initiative. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u109	He's enlisted to speak Senator Minzolini. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is meant to be reunited to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u110	He is enlisted to speak Senator Tonini, who was on the stand of the Presidency. We're waiting for him to reach his station. Senator Tonini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u111	Mr President, I was on the Presidency bench because there is a problem with the order of business. This evening the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of the Mafia was convened, and my colleagues asked that the vote on the very few amendments tabled be postponed until tomorrow morning and then moved on to the explanations of vote and to the final vote. Coming to the measure before us, it is an important step in Italian foreign policy and also a first success of our foreign policy, which has been working for a long time to move the axis and focus of our attention and Europe towards the Mediterranean. Europe is, of course, concerned about the deterioration of our relations with Russia. This is certainly a problem of absolute and extraordinary importance, because the European Union is placed, from geography and history, at the borders with Russia. These borders have narrowed as countries that were part of the so-called Soviet bloc before the fall of the Berlin Wall have gradually called for and obtained entry into the European Union, into what has been called the enlargement strategy (but perhaps it would be better to define the strategy of European reunification). None of us can therefore overlook the importance and strategic value of this scenario, namely the relationship between the European Union and Russia. However, it would be short-sighted not to see that there is another major issue to our attention and to the agenda, which has instead to do with the southern border of the European Union. I am referring to the border of the Mediterranean, which is taking place today, perhaps, the largest, most serious and serious world conflict, which concerns the vast Arab-Islamic world, with its tensions. It is a world behind which, moreover, there is Africa that is boiling, that is moving and that is in the grip of a crisis of growth of extraordinary importance and also difficulties. We are talking about two phenomena: on the one hand, the great civil war (we could call it that, even on the lines of the great European civil wars of the last century), which is waging the Arab world and on the other, behind the desert, the great movement and revolt of Africa. These two processes, together, push on the Mediterranean and see Italy at the forefront, for our objective location. In fact, we are the famous logistics platform in the middle of the Mediterranean, the natural bridge between Europe and the Mediterranean. It is therefore quite natural that our governments (not only the one in office, but in particular this) have pushed and are pushing Europe to deal with the problem of the Mediterranean in a careful, conscious and responsible way; a problem that in particular knows the point of greatest tension and difficulty in Libya, because that is at the moment a failed state, one could say a country without a state, prey to a civil war, even at a low intensity, but of which it is difficult to see an outlet, despite the diplomatic efforts of the UN and the special envoy Bernardino Leòn. Through this space left empty by politics and statehood as Libya is (a geographically very vast space, as it is known), this pressure that comes from the Arab-Islamic world and Africa pours into the Mediterranean through the phenomenon of immigration, refugees, those who flee from wars, conflicts, both Arab-Islamic and African, and try to land on our coasts. The mission set out in this decree-law is an important first success for our diplomacy, because we have managed to bring to the attention of the European Union (which has decided to give life to its mission) and of the United Nations Security Council a resolution that has allowed and is allowing at least a first phase of this commitment to combat human traffickers. It is therefore a two-fold commitment: for a verse we are engaged in the rescue of human lives, as we have been doing for so long, since the time of the Mare nostrum mission with increasing effectiveness, to prevent the deaths at sea, while knowing how difficult it is to save people from the sea; on the other hand it is a security mission that allows to avoid the infiltration of terrorists through this flow from the South to the North and to realize the most effective contrast possible to the traffickers, also through some first military measures that have been assumed, such as the sinking of many vessels used for this absolutely aberrant traffic. I therefore believe that today Parliament can peacefully approve the conversion into law of the decree-law under consideration, knowing that it is not making war on anyone, except human trafficking, and that instead it is laying down the conditions for a garrison as careful and rigorous as possible of waters that have become so important from a strategic point of view. Above all, however, it is laying down the conditions for a reorientation of European foreign policy towards the southern flank of our Union, towards the Mediterranean, on which it depends not a small part of the hopes of peace and of a new world order based on justice and peaceful relations between peoples, such as the issue of the Mediterranean. [[Applause from the PD Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). A "new world order"? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u112	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Compagna.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u113	Mr President, I would like to say very briefly that my fellow Members, particularly the Senators of Alicata and Divina, have a sort of obligatory consensus on the content of the measure, obviously dissenting on the terms that guided the constitutional path of the measure. On the other hand, with regard to soldiers abroad, relations with Parliament are essential. The measure therefore had a need and urgency of a somewhat preventive nature in relation to the deadlines, to the three stages that did not convince other colleagues. Having said that, I think we can certainly listen to the Government's opinion and move to the vote on agendas and amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u114	I call the rapporteur, Senator Vattuone.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u115	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u116	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u117	Please, Senator Rossi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u118	Mr. President, I'm not actually a senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u119	Excuse me, Mr. Undersecretary. I raised her to the rank of senator, even if the Senate is on the verge of abolition: you are a Member of Parliament, so you hold your office tight, it could last longer.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u120	Mr Rossi, State Secretary for Defence. Thank you, President. I want to say that from a statistic it would seem that the current one is the legislature with more Rossi, so there is possibility of confusion [[Laughter]] I mean with more senators and honorable with the surname Rossi; I don't know if everyone knew.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u121	Rossi by name, colleagues, not for ideas.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u122	Mr Rossi, State Secretary for Defence. Mr President, I would like to add to what the rapporteurs have already highlighted two aspects. First of all - I would say almost of course - I want to claim anyway, as has already been said by someone, the success of the Government because, in our opinion, EUNAVFOR MED is a success of this Government and we can say it loudly, especially if we have seen the film since we started. We started from Mare nostrum, that is, from an operation that we have carried out in absolute autonomy precisely because of Europe's inability or unwillingness to come to regard our sea borders as European borders and not as national borders, to arrive today at a military operation that involves 14 countries. I do not think it was so clear, however, that the objective, as is clear in the deliberations of the European Council, of which I read: To help dismantle the business model of traffic networks and trafficking in human beings, by taking systematic measures to identify, stop and eliminate used or suspected vessels and means of being used by smugglers and traffickers in accordance with international law. We had never succeeded in achieving such a clear objective in Europe, which was voted in favour of by all European governments. If we start here then, we can say first of all that the three stages - and I am addressing you above all, Senator Alicata - are all essential, because the current intelligence phase is the fundamental prerequisite for any military operation. I would also like to point out that, in the context of the operation, EUNAVFOR MED will work in coordination with all other Union bodies and agencies, in particular Frontex, Europol, Eurojust, the European Asylum Support Office and relevant CSDP missions. This first phase, therefore, is a phase that we did not have until now and that is essential for any development. It is clear that the operation is in progress, because clearly there are phases that cannot be implemented without UN resolutions, but on these phases there is clearly already the initial consensus on the part of those who have acted in this direction and of those who obviously want to carry out the mission to the final goal. Senator Cotti, at the moment when you say that the military is not competent for rescue operations at sea, I believe that - if I may afford - the Italian people, as they have done so far, should elevate a thank you to the Navy and to the Harbour offices for what they have done and are doing: they are men with small stars that only in the context of operation Mare nostrum have saved about 200,000 people. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Santangelo]] These are facts. They are objective and visible, as is objective and can be seen the fact that already inside Mare nostrum there were 1,100 scafisti. To Senator Cotti who asks for the reason of the use of the ship Cavour, I answer that, for such a complex operation, that involves 14 countries, they serve ships that have the possibility to make a coordination. If the Cavour had not been used, which is an Italian ship, because the leadership was entrusted to Italy (and the Cavour represents our flagship, that is the flagship), it would certainly have been used a ship of similar scope from other countries. There is no will to employ ships that do not serve. We use ships because they serve and because they have a purpose. SANTANGELO (M5S). That's what you say. Mr Rossi, State Secretary for Defence. I shall conclude by returning to Senator Alicata, to say that this is a measure whose departure began on 22 June. It is at an early stage of implementation and clearly the results can only be evaluated in the course of work. What we hope, and indeed we are sure, is that the results will give due credit to those who wanted this operation, to those who have carried it forward, for the purposes finally decided on in Europe.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u123	Colleagues, at this point we should proceed to the examination of certain agendas and amendments which have been tabled. Senator Tonini had, however, represented the fact that at 8 p.m. there is a meeting of the Anti-Mafia Commission. Now that we have to proceed with the examination of the few orders and amendments and explanations of vote, the senator asked that this stage, which is not particularly long, be carried out tomorrow morning at the beginning of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u126	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the decree rains in the Chamber with zero times because, as Senator Divina said, the times were truly inconsistent with the importance of the text itself. We agree with the proposal to continue its examination tomorrow. In the meantime, of course, we will also be able to verify the statements made by the general himself and understand how much they are adherent to the decree-law that we have in conversion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, who is the general? You certainly meant undersecretary Rossi. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). No, Mr President, it is General Rossi, because we have now understood that he commands the ship. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Mr Rossi is here as Undersecretary. It is a democratic and free Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u129	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, the 5th Commission has also suspended its sitting in order to continue our work. And it is not by chance that the Commissioners of the 5th are present in this House. We are therefore of the opinion that the measure should continue to be examined this evening. That methodological vice of convening the Commissions at the same time as the House can be changed once and for all by moving the anti-mafia committee sitting to tonight after 8 p.m. Mr President, I also note, once and for all, that this is not the first time that any senator has stood up in this House to talk about the new world order. These indications, which are of fascist type and of Masonic type, must be returned absolutely to the sender. In the Italian Parliament, it is unheard of on Italian territory that any senator, of any deployment, can speak of a new world order! Mr President, I would ask you, in this case as Vice President, to note that Senator Tonini refers to national superstructures which are not covered in this Italian Parliament once and for all! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] The 5 Star Movement, therefore, asks to continue the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u130	But the new world order is a speech like many others, which can be used when speaking.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u131	SANTANGELO (M5S). She's a fascist! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Frankly, it does not seem to me that there is a ban on it, although of course it is up to the Presidency to prevent insults and outrages.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u134	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business and not on the world order, because I will speak on this in another place. If we want to proceed to the vote, we have no difficulty in doing so. As you can see, in fact, our Group is very much present. As far as my colleagues in the anti-Mafia Commission are concerned, we had asked for a postponement until tomorrow morning, as it is already 7.30 p.m. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Tonini, as you put forward the proposal, if you now withdraw it, we continue our work. TONINI (PD). If there's a group that doesn't share it, let's move on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. At this point, we proceed to the examination of the agendas, which are intended to be set out, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u137	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we agree, but I believe that the illustration must take place before the opinions are given.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u138	We are talking about the agenda, Senator D'Alì, on which opinions can be expressed, because the explanation is provided for during the speeches in general discussion and they can be taken again in the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u139	I am in favour of the G100 agenda, with a rewording. In part of the premises, at the last paragraph, I propose to expunge the words from "and" would be up to "activity", concluding the period with the words "in stalemate", thus removing all the part relating to the operation Mare nostrum. In the commitment mechanism, I propose that the second paragraph be replaced completely by the following words: It shall report to the Chambers by 15 October in order to verify that the commitment of the military means has been aimed exclusively at the purposes of the military operation EUNAVFOR MED. With regard to the G101 agenda, the principle and spirit are acceptable. However, we refer to the Government as regards the security conditions and the possibility of monitoring the Italian cemetery in Tripoli. Finally, I am in favour of the G102 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u140	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on the G100 agenda. As far as the G101 agenda is concerned, it is clearly the security conditions that make the operation possible or not. Then I propose the following rewording of the device: • commit the Government to consider the possibility, as soon as the necessary security conditions have been restored, to monitor (...) •. On the agenda, Mr G102, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u141	Senator Minzolini, do you accept the rewording of the G100 agenda proposed by the rapporteur? MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the G100 agenda (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator D'Alì, do you accept the rewording of the G101 agenda proposed by the government representative?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u142	Mr President, the G101 agenda stems from a concern, which is also recorded through the press, that the Italian cemetery in Tripoli is being subjected at this time not only to danger but also to tampering with elements of ISIS, which insult our memories. I would like to stress the importance of that memory, which is not a colonial memory, but a memory of emigration, like the same emigration that we are protecting in the opposite direction today. Since I certainly speak also because of my geographical origin, but not only (I could say, without inciting too many laughter or too many reactions, national), I point out that most of those memories are of the Sicilian people. I would therefore really like to ask the Government not to underestimate and not to trivialise our request. It is clear that there is the problem of safety conditions. But if there were adequate security conditions, there would be no need to call for action to protect our memoirs in Libya. So I would like to ask the Government for courtesy: it is okay to change the text of the agenda by including the words "to assess the opportunity," but at least delete the sub-order relating to security conditions. It is said that the Government undertakes to evaluate the opportunity to intervene, then establish the Government itself as and when to do so. I remember that in 2005 the Berlusconi Government carried out a similar operation in Mogadishu and secured, with a return to Italy, the bodies of our compatriots who were there and were at risk of continuous attacks and vileness. So I really ask my colleagues, if necessary, to vote on this agenda too, because today we are protecting emigration and lives, but we must also protect our memories, which are not colonial in nature, but are memories of emigration, of work and also of civilization, if I am allowed the term, which we have brought to those shores, reclaiming most of Libya's soils and giving a great example of dedication to work and altruism, as the Italian people have always done. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Laniece and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u143	I would ask Mr Rossi to comment on what Senator D'Alì has proposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u144	First of all, I would like to reassure Senator D'Alì about the government's sensitivity to what has been indicated. If in my treatment I seemed shallow, I apologize, because that was not my intention. The spirit of the G101 agenda, as I said, is absolutely acceptable, but in the same way Senator D'Alì will not fail to admit that the conditions relating to Libya today are absolutely different from those of the Italian cemetery of Mogadishu in 2005. Among other things are different even by extension, because if I remember correctly in Mogadishu we did an operation on about 600 or 700 bodies, while in this case they are a number about three or four times higher. We are therefore in a situation where I believe that you too agree that the safety of the personnel who should be involved in this operation is certainly an essential condition. What we can do is change the agenda, not writing to evaluate the possibility, as soon as the security conditions have been restored, but taking into account the security conditions. I believe that the use of this expression is the least to say that safety conditions are taken into account. I therefore propose that the agenda be reworded as follows: [[Senator D'Alì's consent.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u145	Senator D'Alì therefore accepts the reformulation, also because, I think a reasonable consideration, unfortunately given the current condition of Libya. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G101 (text 2) and G102 will not be put to the vote. I inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u146	Mr President, Amendment 1.3 also partly refers to the speech on the agenda that has just been accepted, albeit with changes, by the Government. In my opinion, there is a psychological, political and international problem. The risk of the mission is that what happened in the previous two missions will be repeated, that the humanitarian part will be implemented and the other, subject to the UN resolution or the acceptance of the coastal countries, will instead remain in the acts. I believe that such a thing risks not putting everyone's attention to it, which is not the way to solve the central problem of our relationship with immigration from Libya, because there seems to be an almost inertial attitude. We did a mission and we changed her name, then we changed that name, and now we're at the third name change. If we do not proceed to an intervention that goes to the root of the problem, we risk taking it with us. Why do I say this and therefore want to keep the amendment in the vote? It has also happened with regard to the affair of the Marò: I believe that to be taken seriously in the international community cannot be taken for granted the task that Italy does out of duty and also out of conviction. We need to have a dialogue and we need to understand that we are making commitments, in relation to a major problem, if the international community takes its own. It is not that this problem - just read the newspapers every day - we are facing it lightly and it is not putting a strain on the condition of our state: the whole prefectory system on the issue of immigration is skipping. Even organised crime - I am talking about Mafia Capital - has found a way of investing in immigration. So, either we give a strong signal from this point of view - and, therefore, we take care of the humanitarian side, we do our job, but we make it clear that another way goes to the root - or else we risk being at the mercy of a dramatic situation of which there is no awareness even between us. If we think of the four workers who have gone into that reality, and now we do not know where they are, we must also understand that in our country there is not even awareness of what is happening in those places. So this is a call to say whether or not we participate in this conflict, because it is a conflict: we have a conflict 300 kilometers away and we cannot pretend anything going on with the ostrich policy. I therefore maintain Amendment 1.3 and request the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u147	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u148	Mr President, on Amendment 1.1 I am calling for a withdrawal or otherwise the opinion is against, because it aims to delete the article establishing the mission itself. On the other hand, dissent can very well be expressed by a vote against the whole measure. I also call for the withdrawal of amendment 1.2 because, among other things, the content is included on an accepted agenda. The opinion is opposed to amendment 1.3, since Senator Minzolini has already said that he does not want to withdraw it, because it indicates the end of 20 August when the mission ends on 30 September. In any case, an accepted agenda is already in this direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u149	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u150	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Marton and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u153	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we do not understand why we should not include in the text of the bill the fact that the mission is aimed at helping to dismantle traffic networks and trafficking in human beings, the adoption of measures to stop and put the boats out of use, and so on. So far the results on this level have been between zero and low, which is why I believe that we, but above all the Italian citizens, would be much more reassured by the fact that all this is enshrined in a rule of law rather than in an agenda, which we know is usually the end.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u154	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3, tabled by Senators Minzolini and Alicata. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u155	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u156	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u158	TARQUINIO (CRI). Mr President, the vote of the Conservative Group, Italian Reformists will be in favour, but it must be highlighted - as Senator Alicata has done well - the meaning of the mission under consideration, which will eventually be resolved practically in nothing, if anything in an action aimed at saving human lives, which is still an important act for us, Italian and European citizens first and foremost. It seems that we are always postponing something that will inevitably come upon us and is already coming upon us. If we want to continue to ignore what has been happening in Italy for several years now - the continuous rhythms of the landings that do not end here, a malaise of the population that grows more and more and certainly is not talking to you an extremist - we will not in the end control the situation in any way, despite the good will. There are serious and serious situations that we cannot exorcise with words and chatter or with such an action. The UN - as Senator Alicata said - will never give us the opinion. And, therefore, if we continue in this way, if we do not beat our fists once and for all and we do not understand that the Libyan and North Africa affair in general takes place at our home, and that we will also have to pay expensive prices to unlock all this, we will find ourselves here at two or three years in a huge tragedy. How can you be so blind? In the name of what and whose? When we Italians - without making any distinctions - will we become aware, as a Government in this case and as a Parliament, that this problem must be tackled at its root? When will we stop waiting for other peoples to solve our problems? When will we stop thinking that what was once the gendarme of the world - by the way it is no longer - that is, the United States, will solve this problem as well? It is a problem that concerns us and we cannot pretend not to see it: soon it will be ungovernable and what is a huge tragedy will become a tragedy totally Italian, because the other European countries, beyond the chatter, well defend themselves, closing the borders. That's the real thing. I do not want to be an extremist, but I just want to say that if we do not realize that the problem is ours, if Europe does not support us in serious terms of foreign policy, which also means intervening militarily, if necessary - this is the real fact and I am certainly not a war-maker - they will definitely bring war to our home, as they have already begun to do. We will have our populations now exasperated and I speak of serene, quiet and moderate people. So you don't go anywhere. As Senator Alicata said, nothing can be solved. The first phase will be over by the end of August, and we will have to wait a long time for the UN to say something. We need to be more active, harder. Italy must demand and not just talk and boast about results that are not there, and we all know that. Blocking those tragedies with our own action also means limiting the deaths of thousands of people drowning in the Mediterranean Sea. Our vote is in favour, because we will always be in favour of military missions involving the whole of Europe and our country. Honestly, however, I think it is time to say with serenity that we must take concrete action and not boast of nothing, because our foreign policy has been irrelevant for several years, as we have seen lately. We can have the leadership of European foreign policy, but we are not being considered. France and Germany decide for everyone and that is not possible. Italy is the most exposed country of all. You have to raise your voice permanently, otherwise we will have to raise our voices in other cases. We always run, and our men are everywhere in the world. Someone, however, must be with us in this decisive battle, because Italy is the most exposed of all. We stop looking in the mirror and pretending nothing. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u161	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have already discussed the draft law in general. My colleagues have followed the debate, and I have paid attention, like everyone else, to Mr Minzolini's arguments regarding the neutralization of the measure. As a League we have asked ourselves a question: how can we say no to a measure that follows our positions, according to which we do not finally go to sea to act as a taxi bringing the poor to our home, and with which we put a blockade and reject the ships, indeed we seize them, eliminating all the boats and the traffic organized by the merchants of human flesh? How can we say no? One could say: the League wanted the blockade and what does it do now that it takes place? A little caution, however, serves and Senator Minzolini pointed out why: there are conditions. What if all this, which in principle we cannot fail to share, is neutralized because we add phrases such as 'taking into account the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council' and 'the consent of the coastal state concerned'? We would not want these two posts to frustrate everything, as Mr Minzolini correctly said. If a United Nations resolution were to oppose the CFSP decision, by establishing exactly the opposite of what it prescribes, or the coastal state, for whatever reason, would prevent the operation from being carried out at the time when jurisdiction passes into its territorial waters, it could actually be said: we have ships, we want to do the blockade, but we are in a position to not be able to do so, in fact. We would not want the government to use these two posts as pretexts to do nothing. The problem is big. We can't say no, but let's point out that there are some critical issues. We could only say that we kindly start this provision, but we keep our hands free. And we asked to have a relationship by 15 October - time passes quickly - with all the data relating to the arrests and seizures of the destroyed boats, to understand if this really is an operation that makes sense or is of facade. We'll know in two and a half months, and from then on we'll settle accordingly. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u164	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we will vote against this measure because it does not convince us for many reasons, that honestly it is not only what we have heard in the various speeches, which are also the subject of reflection. The fact - for example - that the so-called phases 2 and 3 of intervention are only possible with the involvement of the United Nations, which is not yet there, is a very problematic first element. There is a fundamental reason why we express a clear dissent with regard to this operation: it seems to us a great mystification - if I may say so - which is put into effect in response in this way to the propaganda we have had to hear during all these months, and which is often denied by the facts. There is no such thing in this House, because it is easier to blow on fear and respond to propaganda with propaganda. On the other hand, it would be interesting to dwell on the official statements made yesterday by Prefect Morcone, who is not really the last one to arrive, but the person who for our country must provide the numbers on the migratory phenomenon. Yesterday, this prefect - be careful - told us a truth completely different from the one that is told and agitated, that is that the number of landings in the first six months of 2015 is exactly the same as in 2014. So, the so-called gigantic migratory pressure we are talking about, which would have been determined over the past few weeks and months, given to the hand, resoundingly is not there. 19.58 (Followed by Mr de Cristofaro). The measure we are talking about this evening is, therefore, the usual propaganda operation, even with an element of mystification, with which the underlying theme is removed - in our opinion - and that is the complex phenomenon of migratory flows, its causes, deep motivations, faults and why it is historically determined. It is thought, on the contrary, to solve the problem of what, obviously, is not an apocalypse, but still a very significant issue with which we must confront ourselves, simply moving the line of the border - let's say it all - with a nice dose of hypocrisy on the part of our country. A migrant who died in the middle of the sea off Lampedusa, who ends up on the front pages of the Italian newspapers, bothers our enlightened conscience, while a migrant who died - for example, in the Libyan desert or on another migratory route, as it is not seen, is much less annoying. It is indeed an unacceptable simplification and mystification. In recent months we have had to make a much more serious speech in this House, which has been completely lacking: there has been absolutely no courage to put in place a political line contrary to what the miserable propaganda has told all these weeks. We should have talked about how to activate the humanitarian channels. We should have talked seriously about why Mare nostrum was interrupted, when it was entirely assumed and assumed that, despite the assurances given several times in this House - for example - by Minister Alfano, the Frontex mission, if anything else because it was made with different rules of engagement, it would inevitably not have replaced it. But this discussion, in fact, has been completely missed and the numbers spoken by Prefect Morcone have been completely erased. And while we are discussing this provision, we do not realize that, instead, they increase, and also very significantly, the dead on all the itineraries by land, but of which, of course, we do not deal. They are no less lethal, indeed, precisely as a result of the increasing political crises and the civil wars in place, they concern many countries and many routes: Eritrea, Syria, Iraq, Mali, Niger, Nigeria. But obviously this stuff doesn't concern us and we don't care. Among other things, we know very well the issue of Libya, which we have often also addressed in the Foreign Commission itself. We are always convinced of a fundamental point: the management of migratory flows is strongly connected to the reconstruction of a framework of government and peace. And we're very concerned about the kind of approach we're building tonight. We should have put in place a completely different course of action. Do not be surprised if this provision Left, Ecology and Freedom will not vote, unlike the League. It is very clear why this happens: it happens precisely because you have removed a fundamental issue from this debate. And I say this thinking that the government made a serious mistake to get dragged into this initiative, because it didn't have the courage to put in place a radically alternative basic idea. We should have discussed what has happened over the last few months. You must have the courage to recognize that all experiences and data teach that, if you stop one itinerary, another one is produced; there will be no migrant who will renounce to escape from war or hunger as a result of this measure. [[Applause from Senator Campanella]] It will probably use an even more risky route than the previous one. It is not true that in this way the flow is blocked. It is a great hypocrisy, it is a great mystification the second one that blocks the flow. The flow is made invisible, it doesn't stop; it puts it away from the eyes, it doesn't look at it, it doesn't bother our western consciences of the first world. It is what is done with regard to the flow, but it is not true that it is blocked. I think this thing is very, very negative. It is really a cultural regression that fists with the most advanced debate, which also existed in our country, and with the choices - those yes, instead, very serious and noble - carried out over the past months, as I have said a thousand times, one of all Mare nostrum, which would have deserved much more seriousness and which, instead, has been replaced by a line of conduct, that of the last months, completely wrong. I do not think that they are in any way comparable to what we are discussing this evening, but some things have also been brought into play in this political debate. I am talking, for example, about the anti-piracy missions carried out over the years off Somalia, which is quite another mission, which is absolutely not comparable to this one. Really, I am sorry if I have taken time and if colleagues will have to wait a few minutes, but for us this is a very significant point. Since we are among the few to express a dissent, you will allow me. We do not think that we can isolate this debate as we have done in the last few hours. We think it is a real political mistake that this Parliament and this parliamentary majority make. Think a lot about the fact that Left Ecology and Freedom does not vote for this measure and that, instead, the North League votes for it firmly. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senators Campanella and Bocchino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u167	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I am speaking only to announce our Group's vote in favour of the measure. I apologise to the Presidency for the inelegance for which one of the rapporteurs is also the bearer of a Group's opinion, but it is only to speed up our work. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] SANTANGELO (M5S). I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u168	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that we understand what is happening in this House. I state that the 5 Star Movement will vote no to this bill and I will try to articulate the motivations. But before I get to them, Mr Undersecretary, allow me to remove any misunderstanding. The 5 Star Movement is close, in an absolute way, to all the workers and military who, over the years and always, have fought for the population, for the rescues at sea and for the many other episodes in which in a commendable way they have done more than their work. On this there is no kind of doubt or misunderstanding arising from the interventions of the members of the 5 Star Movement Group. We are talking about an operation that is due to start on 27 June and will end on 30 September. The duration is, exactly, ninety-six days. The objective - this must always be clear for the defense - as has been said in part, is to help dismantle the business model of the networks of traffic and trafficking of human beings, adopting systematic measures to identify, stop and eliminate boats and used or suspected means of being used by the pastors or traffickers. As you can see, this is only part of the objective that the mission aims to do. It is a part of the objective that the 5 Star Movement does not share. We believe that we cannot stop and block the enormous exodus that we are witnessing through a naval blockade so evoked by our colleagues in the League. To avoid misunderstandings I say: not even in this measure there is a naval blockade. If you go to examine document No II of the International Affairs Service, Mr. Undersecretary Rossi, you can see that there are many objectives that are absolutely acceptable. I only want to tell you one thing: to address the causes of poverty, crisis and conflict by improving the situations of humanitarian security and human rights and socio-economic conditions in the countries of origin. We're talking about something completely different. We do not need the Cavour ship to do this and we do not need submarines or planes. It is a work of diplomacy that had to be done in previous years and of which, now, we had to reap the fruits. If we go to read another point, concerning the cooperation with the countries of transit, the control of the flows and the effective contrast to the traffics and the traffickers, it is clear that it does not take the ship Cavour. I don't want to do the military's job, but it's clear, Mr. Undersecretary, that they don't even need the submarine and the planes to do this. The objectives are - yes - important, but they are not achieved at all, because it is already specified that, in the absence of the UN resolutions, stage 2 is not applicable. We are facing not a cost, but an investment that our country is supporting as part of this mission. We are talking, in fact, of EUR 270,000 per day - I repeat: EUR 270,000 per day - in order to implement a military action that will not reach its goal. In your opinion, is it common sense to spend EUR 270,000 a day? Yes or no? You have to answer that. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And you must also be able to understand the roles that two of our military are playing at this stage, because the command of the operation is entrusted to our admiral, Enrico Credendino, and the actual military operation, on the field, is led by Rear Admiral Andrea Gueglio. What tasks are being carried out in this first phase of intelligence with the Cavour ship and submarines? This is over €26 million. When will the 11,200,000 euros be given - if given - to Italy from the countries that should participate? Colleagues, for these reasons, the 5 Star Movement will vote firmly no, because this is not the idea of sustainable defense that serves, among other things, the country immediately. Instead, we need a completely different approach to what led us to the war in Libya in 2011. So, ours will be a double-convincing no. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u171	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the measure, although with a number of doubts, questions and concerns that we have expressed both in the amendments signed by the Romans and Senator Minzolini, and, in part, on the agenda that has been accepted. What's the matter? In the face of the migratory wave there have been naval initiatives in the Mediterranean, including the first catastrophic (so we call it) operation Mare nostrum. Today, by paradox, the President of Malta, meeting President Mattarella, thanked Italy for the operation Mare nostrum. Of course: we have removed the chestnuts from the fire in Malta, which is certainly a geographically small and limited reality and cannot take care of the emergencies in the Mediterranean, but which kept everyone away and did not even lend the slightest help. Therefore, it is obvious that the Maltese President thanks our President of the Republic, since we have taken on all the despairs, and not only of the Mediterranean, but also of Africa, since only a small part of the illegal immigrants who land in Italy comes from war zones. That is something that needs to be clarified. Today's agency news reports hundreds of arrivals and one of the AnSA's communications reports the list of countries of origin. Clearly, these are almost all countries that experience hardships, otherwise people would not run away from them. I've never seen someone run off with a boat from Los Angeles or New York to get to Pozzallo. Those who run away - it is obvious - always do it from more or less uncomfortable places. However, not all the countries listed are at war. Only a small part of those who, even in these last hours, have landed meet the requirements related to refugee status. In recent days, we have made an international impression when the number of refugees to be divided between European countries has fallen from 40,000 to 32,000, with a two-year timetable (I did not understand correctly). Malta will welcome 60 of them. It is clear that the President of Malta smiles when he meets the President of the Italian Republic, since his country has dodged any burden. I first heard Senator De Cristofaro commend Prefect Morcone. I, on the other hand, don't praise him at all, because he's lying all the time on television. Dear colleagues, perhaps Alfano should hunt Morcone and not Treviso's prefect. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Alfano should change the list of prefects to be removed. He dismissed the prefect of Treviso because he was guilty of an agreement with the citizens and for having found with the President of the Region a barracks to place people, who were not driven out violently, but relocated. However, that prefect was removed, while other prefects also go on television. I would also remind you that Morcone has also been a candidate for elections. I say this because, a few minutes ago, Minister Alfano spoke very harshly about the prefects, making them aware of them and almost Threatening them. However, Morcone is held alternating attempts as a fucked politician. In fact, he applied to the Municipality of Naples with disastrous results, so much so that he returned to the Ministry to be the general manager and, under the Morconian kingdom in the management of immigration, at the Viminale they prospered Odevaie and other characters. Therefore, dear colleague De Cristofaro, we cannot take lessons and numbers from Morcone. He should explain to us how he chose some collaborators. Having said that, Operation Mare nostrum was a catastrophe and the European mission Triton served to land in Taranto, Crotone, Palermo, Naples, Salerno thousands of illegals and some refugees (the law of large numbers makes there also some refugees). Therefore, Triton was another very negative mission for our country: no help and no money from Europe. However, we have had the help - yes - from the Dutch, the Germans and the British who have dumped foreigners at us. Even one day the British Foreign Minister, who was aboard a ship (perhaps represented Cameron), showed up (it seems to me in Taranto or I don't know which port) to dump some illegals in Italy with the English ship. One might wonder why, with all the criticism, we are voting in favour of this measure. We do this because, in theory, this operation is intended for different purposes and it is said that we must fight the hullers by dismantling the nets. We saw the cynicism of these people - for example - the other day when a child died because she was deprived of the medicines to deal with her illness (the insulin was thrown into the sea by the boatmen who had to lighten the load). As we begin to conclude quickly, we hope that the EUNAVFOR MED operation will make a contribution, but we will be very careful. In this sense, the agenda G100 (text 2), which has been accepted, reiterates that military means must be used exclusively for this operation which provides for various phases for intelligence, research, identification of networks, with the difficulties that exist and that before Senator Minzolini rightly recalled. Libya today is in its condition. Even the G101 agenda (text 2) of Senators Amoruso and D'Alì was accepted to protect Tripoli's cemetery. I understand undersecretary Rossi that he has rightly said that this will happen as far as possible. Even if he was a general, he is undersecretary today and, if tomorrow he arrives in Tripoli for a humanitarian operation, he does not know what context he finds and whether he needs the Undersecretary or more the general. We are aware that this is an attempt - I am pleased that the Minister is present - to make a contribution to the dismantling of the networks under management. The operation has a limited duration, because it is a matter of arriving at the beginning of October. The agendas commit the government to come and report on the use of the means mentioned, our ships, and to understand what will happen. I conclude by saying that, however, there is one condition: the UN resolution. A few weeks ago Minister Gentiloni came to the Commission to report that he had gone to speak to the United Nations. Knowing him for many years, I have allowed myself to use a little lighter tones and to tell him that perhaps he had intercomed and no one had opened the door to him of the Glass Palace, because there is still no trace of the United Nations resolution, indispensable to give this mission also a value, an effectiveness, a possibility of action that must take place within the framework of the international rules of the UN. We do not ask that we act in a reactive manner and outside the context of international standards. We are a great country and we must demand that the United Nations approve the necessary resolutions and that the international concert of forces, which also recalls this operation, can act effectively against the bandits, speculators, murderers (so we can define them) who organize the turbulent traffic, which is not aid to refugees, but often speculation on a desperation that certainly exists and must be arginated and governed, because we cannot accept all the despairs of the world. We therefore vote in favour of the spirit of this initiative, the role that our armed forces will once again play, in the hope that the United Nations too can be awakened - I say not from a torpor, but from the lack of a political will, that in fact so far there has not been - and that our Government knows how to raise its voice in international fora and then can come and report to us in a few weeks - we are now at the end of July and are a few weeks away from the beginning of October - before assessing any extensions. I am telling you honestly, Minister: let us see what happens before we continue, in case we need, after Mare nostrum and Triton, another transport operation, which goes to encourage the boatmen who leave because they know that there are those who charge the illegals. The scafists, however, make themselves pay, speculating on desperation. Ours is, therefore, a very careful yes, very careful, because we want to protect the security of our time. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u174	LATORRE (PD). Mr President, I have heard that Senator De Cristofaro, in his explanation of vote, has been concerned to specify which groups will vote in favour and which groups will vote against this measure. I will only list to Mr De Cristofaro those who voted in favour of this measure: the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Spain, Slovenia, Greece, Luxembourg, Belgium, Finland, Hungary, Lithuania, the Netherlands and Sweden. With all due respect for the Left Ecology and Freedom, we are doing an act of significant national and international political significance. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio]] In confirming the significance of this measure - the political meaning of which, moreover, Mr Tonini and the rapporteurs have long focused - it has a particular value in the presence of the events of recent weeks. I have heard so much about immigration - and I will also come back briefly - but I would like us not to forget that four Italians have been kidnapped in these hours and I believe that I interpret the sentiment of the whole House in expressing to the families of these young people all our solidarity and our closeness. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups, AP (NCD-UDC), from the Government and Senator Santangelo's benches]] I confirm, then, the commitment of our country, the Government and Parliament to conclude this affair in the best way and as soon as possible. All these issues, immigration and the latest events, however, allude to an issue that is the absolute priority for us, namely the stabilisation of Libya. In this regard I would like to say that today's choice of our country is not separated from the line that Italy has decided to follow on this issue, namely to support to the full and with determination the initiative of the United Nations, which wants to create the conditions so that the international community can contribute, in the forms and ways deemed most appropriate, to the reconstruction and stabilisation of that State. We know that, until the situation in Libya has stabilised, we will have to deal with all the issues that we are talking about in this debate. We are convinced that any military initiative would be insane and wrong, which would make the situation in Libya even more paradoxically destabilised today and would only risk sending people or our compatriots to the slaughter. It is also true, however, that the timing of an agreement in Libya cannot be greatly prolonged. Yesterday I had the opportunity to meet with the representative of the United Nations, Bernardino Leòn, who told us how significant progress has been made and that we are probably in the vicinity of a political agreement. Our country cannot stand still these days. We must continue to do all the diplomatic work we need to do so that even those members who have not yet signed the agreement do so. When this agreement is reached, our country must - and it is ready - assume all the responsibilities to contribute to this operation of State building. This is the key, also on the subject of immigration, and this is the meaning of this mission. On the subject of immigration, too, I have heard many statements. The dramatic nature of this phenomenon is not so much in its quantity. I would like not to overlook the detail that we are currently dealing with a migratory flow which, to date, is nothing more than 8% more than what was at the same date as last year. The dramatic nature of the phenomenon is in its structural nature, that is, in its being a phenomenon that will be long-term and that will mark this phase for a long time. In this sense, we cannot objectively address this issue on our own, and in this sense, it is a duty and a necessity for Europe to assume this responsibility. We know that addressing this issue requires, on the one hand, the need to continue on a European mission, that of Triton, which also has the purpose and the objective of saving lives. In this regard, I want to say very clearly that we can certainly express any assessment of how to manage this phenomenon, but on one point we cannot give up some of the principles and values of our society: saving human lives is a duty that comes first of all. This must be said very clearly. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Of course, this does not mean not to pose the problem of how to manage a phenomenon that has this drama and that our country alone cannot in any way face. From this point of view, a few steps are being taken, but I believe that there is still a great political and cultural battle to be waged in Europe. It is true that yesterday it was decided to share the management of about 35,000 people with refugee status, but that is not enough. It is clear that we must demand much more, and we can do so, and by participating in this kind of mission, we also help to strengthen our contractual power in addressing this issue. In reply to some of the objections I have heard, I would like to say that this mission has a clear objective: to declare a war, this without a neighborhood, to the traffickers of human beings. This is the meaning of this mission: to block traffickers! [[Applause from the PD Group.]] This was explained in the illustration made by our rapporteurs. We are in the first phase and I would like to say to my colleague Mr Santangelo, and also to my colleague Mr Cotti, who has spoken, that this phase should not be underestimated, because the reconnaissance phase, the intelligence phase, to which the first phase of the mission is aimed, is preparatory, is fundamental and essential to be able to proceed, in the presence of a resolution of the United Nations, in the next phase, precisely that which allows to intervene and act also in the Libyan territorial waters in order to stop the trafficking of human beings. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Well, that's the way it is. I would have wished myself a strong unanimity. In the Commission we had a debate in which the different views were clearly expressed, but I had the feeling, perhaps wrong, that there was a strong consensus about the true meaning of this mission. Then it is clear that, when we are in this Chamber, unfortunately, we must also please our voters and our primordial moods, and so we sometimes lose control of the situation. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] I think that this is another great step on the road to sharing the management of this phase with Europe. These have been terrible days for Europe, from the Greek crisis to the difficulties we have experienced on the subject of immigration management, in order to share this phenomenon. We can record, both in the light of how the Greek affair has ended and in the light of how this situation is evolving, and then at the end of this Europe we know that we all have a great need for it. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] and therefore every opportunity that leads us in this direction must be usefully valued, as precisely the consensus that we want to give to this initiative. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u176	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u177	Mr Manconi (PD). Madam President, Senators and Senators, Minister, Representatives of the Government, I have briefly voted against my group's choice. I think this measure is inadequate and insufficient in relation to the same objectives that it says it understands and wants to pursue; more, I think it is a fallacious diversion, insidious and perhaps even exificial in relation to the urgency and the priorities that the framework of the Mediterranean and of the countries that face it places and imposes on our country. I would add that the government representative spoke about the Mare Nostrum mission, which I have always considered sacred and very important, and not only a fundamental humanitarian initiative. This definition is also correct, but it risks giving that mission a reductive and restrictive meaning. It has also been an important geopolitical initiative, the opportunity for our country to play a role as protagonist, an opportunity to give sense of belonging to the members of the Navy and the Harbour offices, even one of the first traces of a sort of supranational patriotism, which constitutes an important contribution so that our Country has, can have and, if it will be able, can have a role not secondary in this serious crisis. Well, with regard to the Mare Nostrum mission, which - I would like to remind you - was interrupted nine months ago, the measures, measures and initiatives, even of a military nature, provided for by this decree-law not only constitute an acute contradiction, but risk being seriously dangerous. For this reason, I will abstain. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u180	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u181	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u182	Colleagues, appreciated the circumstances, I refer the discussion of draft law no. 1962 to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u185	PADUA (PD). Madam President, I would like briefly to draw the attention of the President and the House to the infrastructure network on the island of Sicily. In this regard, I recall the great commitment made by Minister Delrio, who is really doing his utmost, but everyday life in this land is becoming unmanageable and unbearable. At the moment when the flow of tourists in our country is increasing and entering into the midst of the summer season, I would like to remind this House of the truly dramatic situation that the Sicilian citizens have been living for a long time in the field of transport and mobility. The region, in addition to suffering from obvious structural deficiencies, is now literally broken in two parts, the eastern and the western, due to events occurred during this year. In essence we are in the presence, in Sicily, of a context of continuous emergency, in which problems - rather than solutions - are added problems. The failure of a pillar of the viaduct Himera on the highway that connects Palermo with Catania took place at the beginning of April and despite the time spent there is no next solution to solve the problem, thus exacerbating further those infrastructural deficiencies that - unfortunately - weigh on the right to mobility of the citizens and the Sicilian towns and on the entire system of the transports. We just have to hope that the work on the section, which as a time programme will begin on 10 August next, will not find any obstacle whatsoever. In the meantime, however, the inconveniences continue, indeed increase. We are always on the road network: yesterday an accident occurred to a TIR, which caught fire, on the alternative route of the A19, i.e. on the state road 643, blocked this temporary solution as well. In addition, both the 643 and 120 highways are crossed as alternative routes to the interruption of the closed section of Palermo-Catania and, therefore, there are also heavy vehicles, with good peace of the asphalt estate and the aggraviation of already critical conditions in themselves. It is no coincidence, therefore, that accidents such as that which occurred yesterday take place. Last May I tabled a question that, taking the cue from the facts related to the collapse, actually had the objective to keep high attention on the identified infrastructure priorities, in terms of design and investment, relating to the development, the strengthening and the safety of the Sicilian road network. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Padua. PADUA (PD). We have been waiting for 30 years for the doubling of the Ragusa-Catania road, for the railways to be older than I used when I attended university, thirty years ago, to go down to Rome to go to Milan, if you start from the outskirts, and there is an intolerable gap between the South and the North. But it is not a protest, it is a proposal, Madam President, which I would ask you to accept. At the beginning of the legislature, I presented bill No. 800, which contained rules for facilitated air transport, to ensure that there was continuity between Sicily and the rest of the country. I would therefore ask you - please - to insist on this timetable, because we do not have trains, we do not have roads and a plane, even booked two months earlier, costs between EUR 450 and EUR 500. Sicilian citizens and citizens, as provided for in the Constitution, have the right to mobility: I know that the Minister is working hard, but we must make it even faster. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u186	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u188	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, as usual, I would like to speak in order to continue the inevitable and unacceptable protest that there is no answer to the questions and questions that are being tabled and to which the Ministers and President Renzi are insisting not to answer. This is a mess that is being carried out and perpetrated, with an absolute indifference to all those questions and questions that lie in the Ministers' drawers and which have no answer. I believe it is time to put an end to this and I hope that a motion in this respect will be drawn up, because this unacceptable situation must really be brought to an end, in contempt of the Rules of Procedure, common sense and the dignity of the senators of this assembly. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u189	Senator, you're right. I personally will speak with the President so that the Rules of Procedure can be applied strictly, and then the Government, if it is unable to respond, will explain the reasons for this, because otherwise one of Parliament's fundamental functions, such as the inspection union, is totally frustrated.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u190	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u192	BENCINI (Mixed). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, some of you will remember that in May 2014 the work carried out by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation led to the positive outcome of the affair of the 24 Italian families blocked in Kinshasa and unable to leave with their adopted children. The newspapers and televisions talked a lot about it. I do not know how many of us know, however, that, almost two years after the decision of the Republic of Congo to suspend for a year the issue of exit visas for children adopted, there are still hundreds of families, of various nationalities, waiting to be reunited with their children regularly adopted. A situation that would be grotesque, if it were not dramatic, and for some families, unfortunately, already tragic. In fact, some children died waiting to live in Italy, with the affection of their families, and in the most fortunate sanitary conditions. One hundred and thirty Italian families are in this condition, waiting to see their children grow up and to remove them from a situation of unsustainable uncertainty. They have so far patiently waited, despite the understandable state of mind, but, also due to the lamented lack of attention from the CAI and those who should be concerned to give them timely and continuously updated information on the progress of the negotiations, they have reached the limit of endurance. I therefore appeal to everyone to be able to put more pressure on the Government and to commit themselves to finally resolving this situation, and at least to constantly inform the families involved about the attempts being made.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u195	Mr Albano (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today I bring to your attention the paradoxical situation of rail transport in Liguria; paradoxical because, while the Italian Government makes the speed of change and communication its banner, in Liguria there remain structural problems and performances, in terms of mobility, equal to decades ago. The Liguria is still not entirely served by the double track; the stretch between San Lorenzo al Mare and Finale Ligure, consisting of 158 kilometers, is far from its completion; there are problems inherent in the safety devices and the diversity of electrical voltage makes the passage of the convoys to France laborious. Yet, the train necessarily remains the public medium par excellence in the Ligurian territory: every day there are about 105,000 people who use it for reasons of study, work and tourism. The past regional administration had signed with Trenitalia the extension of the service contract until December 31 of this year, providing for the renewal of the same within the month of October. The Government has done well with the financing for the safety of the international line Ventimiglia-Limone Piemonte-Cuneo, financed with 29 million euros through the Ministry for Infrastructures and Transports in the decree unlocks Italy, but in the last year several cuts and remodations of the service have occurred both for the lines from that for Piemonte. In September 2014 four races (two pairs of Torino-Savona-Ventimiglia) were cancelled at the will of the Liguria Region, while the Piedmont Region cut six of the eight pairs of trains from Ventimiglia to Cuneo (Limone Piemonte line) and all the trains departing from Taggia to Cuneo were cancelled; the remaining trains departing from Turin stop at Savona. In April, Intercity from Lombardy was replaced by Thello (joint venture between Trenitalia and Veolia Transport SpA). The replacement of Intercity with Thello is Trenitalia's decision motivated by market reasons. Trenitalia for Intercity receives funding from the Ministry for Infrastructure and Transport. Several committees of commuters call for the introduction of several fast regional trains, so that they can combine economics with an adequate journey time: currently to travel about 180 kilometers from Ventimiglia to Genoa it takes from two to three and a half hours, while from La Spezia to Genoa you pass from the hour of the White Arrow to the two and a half hours of the regional ones (I say it with cognizance of cause, since I travel by train). Finally, we must not forget the issue of safety on board trains, the safety of workers and passengers. As I asked in the past, you can't spend reviews on the Polfer, you can't close the garrisons at different stations and let there are no agents ready to intervene for tens and tens of kilometers. Italy starts again, also starting from modern infrastructures and communication routes, we do not let Liguria remain behind. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u196	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u198	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, I have spoken in this House on several occasions on the NCA case (New Apuania yards) in Marina di Carrara. This year I have already filed two acts of inspection union, the first addressed to Minister Poletti on 17 February and the second addressed to Minister Guidi on 22 April 2015. The situation is now known to the Government and I wonder why no answer has yet been given to questions and, above all, why the right of access to documents which form an integral part of the agreement allowing the transfer of the subsidiary from Invitalia to a private individual has not been guaranteed. This concession regards not only the sale of sheds, warehouses and machinery, but above all the future of many workers of the ship yard. After the transfer, the workers were left in a situation of uncertainty, precariousness and inoperability. The politics and the institutions at local and national level have laid out red carpets to the entrepreneur Costantino Giovanni, guaranteeing him the possibility to have a concession thirty years on the mirror of water in front of the port, places public cars become to exclusive use of NCA, permissions and authorizations in record times on all that he has wanted to construct and in addition the possibility to organize pharaonic festivities with fireworks in a productive site where the rights of the workers are disappearing with the complicity and silence of those who had to supervise and has not watched. Perhaps that is why the MISE has not yet provided the required documents in December 2014? I remember that the local institutions simply called tables in Provincia (to Massa) and in Comune (to Carrara), which in fact guaranteed full freedom of action and white paper to Constantine, who could even close the business canteen and transform it into a place of temporary detention in which to relegate 43 workers, unique case in Italy and I believe in Europe. Precisely at this moment in Carrara there is an extraordinary municipal council to ask for clarification and to invite a national table to the Ministry. The Mayor of Carrara has just said that it hovers the date of December 2016 for the mobility of workers; it would be crazy. NCA does business without blackmail and pull out the famous industrial plan that no one yet knows. The workers and the union are strongly concerned about what has been illustrated in the Tuscany Region after the meeting with the regional council member Simoncini and the mayor of Carrara, held a few days ago with the management NCA. Unfortunately the air that pulls into the exhibition made is once again that of the company's will not to comply with the agreements and commitments made for the territory and the workers. We in the 5 Star Movement certainly remain close to the workers and are here to ask for transparency, urging first of all the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Economic Affairs to provide more-faced documents required. Above all, let us remember that the dignity of workers can never be trampled on. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u199	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u201	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to inform the few remaining colleagues and the citizens who follow us of a very serious fact: BetuniQ company has been kidnapped, along with other companies with 1,500 gambling betting points, worth EUR 2 billion. It was kidnapped because it served - this is what the investigators say - as a laundry of dirty money for the 'ndrangheta, in particular for the Tegano cosca. This is not an absolute news, because we have long known that this type of activity is often used for money laundering from illegal origin. The news is that nothing is yet done to prevent this traffic; indeed, today we have electronic devices (VLT) that seem designed specifically to allow it: if I want to clean up the money of the dealing, I go there, insert the notes, then I think about it, hit a button and the machine returns my money with a receipt, as if they were won. Another fact that emerges from this article is that money was brought to Malta and then, through a series of Chinese boxes, into tax havens. This is also not news, because we know that it is the big multinationals that have in hand and centralize the business in this sector. The news is that nothing is done to avoid it. In fact, we have a very important element, a tool to break down online gambling and also this margin of illegality, and it is to ban advertising. It is a simple action that asks us, also for a cultural, ethical, moral, civil issue, the associations that fight for the health of citizens against pathological gambling, and that is not done. Undersecretary Baretta has let the tax delegation expire, but there is no need for a tax delegation: just sign the RAI service contract and at least on public networks we will no longer have advertising that offends adults and hurts, really bad, young people. Other important things that can be done immediately are the following: to exhume (because they buried it) the law that is already ready in the Social Affairs Committee of the House, to which the 5 Star Movement has contributed and which represents a great step forward for citizens and for health; finally, after the tax delegation has expired, we must not give in to the flattery of making a coup, perhaps in the next law of stability, but to build a law that truly rearranges this sector, doing it together with the citizens and associations that fight for a better Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u202	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-489.ana.u203	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 23 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.53 p.m.
