ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u4	LANGELLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on document LVII-a, No 3. The rapporteur, Senator Guerrieri Paleotti, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Minister, the report presented by the Government in Parliament today is before the Senate in order to update the policy objectives of public finance that have been set out in the Economic and Financial Document. This in compliance with the provisions of article 10-a, paragraph 6, of the law of accounting and public finance. I would like to point out that, under this rule, the Government, if, due to the occurrence of exceptional events which cause significant deviations in public finance developments, intends to update the policy objectives set out in the DEF, it is required to submit a report to Parliament explaining the reasons for the update. This report must also provide the reasons for the deviations as well as an indication of the actions that are intended to be taken to correct them. This, therefore, is the purpose of the report that we are considering today, which aims precisely to inform the Chambers of the effects produced by the decision of the Constitutional Court No 70 of 2015, on the public finance framework for 2015 and subsequent years. At the same time, the report explains the intervention, carried out by the Decree-Law of 21 May 2015, aimed at implementing the operative part of the judgment, also ensuring the sustainability of its impact on public finances. I would also like to point out that the decision of the Constitutional Court declared the illegitimacy of the first part of Article 24, paragraph 25, of Decree-Law No 201 of 2011, which suspended for the two-year period 2012-2013 the re-evaluation of pensions for treatment holders exceeding three times the minimum. Now, in declaring the unconstitutionality of that rule, the Court has in fact put back to the Government the determination of the new threshold below which to guarantee the full or partial indexation of pensions in order to maintain their purchasing power over time. However, since the judgment was retroactive, the burden which it would bear on the budget was assessed as very substantial. The review of the indexation mechanisms for the 2011 measure affected around 30% of pensioners, i.e. 4,400 million citizens. To the class that is between three and four times the minimum treatment, that includes - I would like to remember - almost half of the audience of the interested ones, competes approximately one third of the total amount of the non indexing. The highest class, in which nearly 16 percent of the subjects involved are included, would have been more than 27 percent of the same amount. If it had been applied in full, the judgment would have produced, for each pensioner more than three times the minimum, two distinct effects of increasing the amounts paid for the purposes of the pension. First of all, a so-called direct effect due to the permanent increase in the pension, which, of course, is equal to the revaluation that would have taken place in the two-year period 2012-2013. But this is actually to be added an indirect effect due to the fact that the revaluation for subsequent years would then be applied on the highest basis. When calculating the effects and impact of the Court's judgment, the current accounting rules must be taken into account, which stipulate that they should be charged to the year of application of the judgment, therefore in 2015, the charges relating both to the payment of arrears from 2012 to 2014 and the charges relating to disbursements for the current year; while, of course, for the years from 2016 onwards, these charges will be entered with reference to each year. If we take all this into account, the impact of the Court's judgment, according to the calculations presented by the Government in the report, which were validated by a report of the Parliamentary Budget Office, the additional expenditure that the judgment would have produced, net of tax effects, is equal to approximately 17,6 billion euros; of these, 4,5 billion with exclusive competence 2015, and of course the other increases, considering the structural character of this impact, would affect the following years, although this amount would be gradually decreasing, remaining however more than 4 billion for the period 2016-2019. If we want to calculate how much the impact of the judgment would have worsened the net trend debt, this deterioration can be estimated at around 1.1 percent. This means that, compared to the 2.5% indicated in the Economic and Finance Document in 2015, according to the judgment, net debt would have risen to 3.6%. In 2016, this deterioration was lower and would have resulted in an increase from 1.4 to 1.7 percent. It is clear that with a debt of 3.6% our country would have violated the European budgetary rules both with regard to the criterion of the public deficit, since this deficit would have largely exceeded the threshold of 3%, both with respect to the criterion of the debt, no longer allowing the path of reduction of the same debt programmed in the DEF for the purpose of compliance with the European budgetary rules. What would have happened is easily foreseeable: Italy would have been the subject of an infringement procedure by the Commission and, equally serious, could no longer have availed itself of the flexibility clause that has been recognized to us, allowing us to distribute over a longer period of time the process of adjustment of the public accounts. If this is the framework, which I have tried to sum up through a series of figures, which - I repeat - are in the Government's report and have been validated by the Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget, it can be understood that the Government's intervention is directed on the one hand to apply the Court's judgment, but on the other hand it has the aim of preventing such very negative results. This intervention is implemented by Decree-Law No 65 of 2015. The intervention should therefore also be seen in the light of the changes introduced to Article 81 of the Constitution by Constitutional Law No 1 of 20 April 2012. I would like to point out that these rules have constitutionalised the obligation to balance the budget and, therefore, the prohibition of recourse to debt to finance new expenditure or lower revenue. These provisions also derive from the constraints that our country has voluntarily assumed with its participation in the European Union. It is also well known that, after the introduction of this principle into the Constitution, the procedure for approving the annual budgetary documents to which the Government and Parliament contribute internally has been strengthened, while at European level there is a procedure involving monitoring by the European Commission that must approve the programmatic level of the balances presented by our country, as from other European countries. These balances must draw a path towards the return of the deficit in a first phase and then ensure the stabilisation of the balance of the budget, as well as ensuring a gradual reduction of the debt. Of course, it is very important for this monitoring to ensure, through the European Commission's scrutiny, the credibility of the measures implemented by each country - and therefore also by our own - with regard to the achievement of the policy objectives. It should be recalled that changes in deficit and debt levels that are defined by budgetary documents can only be allowed under specific circumstances which are, as we recall, exceptional causes, such as the case of a severe economic recession or events outside the control of the State. This, of course, also involves the application of enhanced procedures involving the approval of new balances by qualified majority in the Chambers and, therefore, further evaluation by the European Commission. Taking all this into account, Article 1 of the Decree-Law presented by the Government is then defined the criteria and procedures for intervention, which must obviously take account, on the one hand, of the solidarity criteria of the social security system and, on the other hand, of the principles of adequacy and proportionality set out in the judgment of the Court itself. The other equally important aim is to ensure the adjustment of pension treatment taking into account respect for budgetary balances and public finance objectives for the reasons I have tried to summarise previously. What was the content of the Government's intervention? For the two-year period 2012-2013 - we are talking about arrears - a revaluation of pension schemes has been recognised through a mechanism that divides the indexing mechanism by classes. In other words, for the class between three and four times the minimum treatment (the lowest pension class) is expected to be 40% recognition of the reference inflation. For the class between four and five times the minimum treatment is expected a re-evaluation of 20 percent. 10 percent is recognized to the class between five and six times the minimum treatment. It is clear that this proportionality, which focuses mainly on lower pensions, is the greatest effort with regard to the recognition of adjustment. Moreover, for the 2014-2015 two-year period, a fifth of the revaluation identified by the same measure for 2013 is recognised as partial reimbursement, while for 2016 the revaluation rises to 50 percent. We can thus identify the intervention as highly concentrated, for more than two thirds of the recovery (about 60% of the resources), on the pensioners of the class with an amount between three and four times the minimum; therefore, the resources allocated were mainly directed to recognise a revaluation with regard to the pension system of the class above three times and up to four times. Overall, therefore, the refund that provides for the decree-law aims to cover for the years 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 with the allocation inversely proportional to the thresholds that have been identified and with the possibility to concentrate the reimbursement on the lower pension classes. If we look at the intervention system as a whole with regard to the return of non-indexation, we are obviously in the presence of a partial refund covering only a part of what indexation would have foreseen, concentrating - as I said - these limited resources in the lower treatment classes of pensioners. The reason for this partial refund is soon said and is intended above all to limit the impact of the application of the judgment on public finance balances. The return, in fact, allows to limit the impact on the public finance balances of approximately 2.2 billion in 2015 and then, under regime, to make this refund oscillate around 0.5 billion (something around this or little less). This will make it possible to improve the trend of public finance balances which, if the judgment had been applied in purely quantitative terms - as I have mentioned - would have led to an increase in the budget balance of up to 3.6%. Instead, compared to this trend, the intervention allows to improve the effects for about 15.4 billion in 2015 and then, starting from 2016, to achieve improvements for 3.9 billion, always compared to trends. As regards debt, therefore, it is possible to fully confirm this level of debt foreseen in the DEF estimates for 2015, i.e. that of a programme of 2.6% of GDP, thus slightly higher than the trend value which - let us remember - was indicated in 2005, using the margin of 0.1 per cent that had already been identified to cover the resources of the measure. In addition, for the following years, the trend levels that had been registered in the submitted DEF are confirmed. I would like to remind you that these levels provide for a gradual reduction of the deficit to 1.4% in 2016 and 0.2% in 2017, and then to switch in 2018 and 2019 to slight surpluses of 0.5 and 0.9%. The Government's report also makes it clear that the action taken by the measure in question does not lead to negative effects as regards structural net debt, which - let us remember - is very important in order to ensure both compliance with Article 81 of the Constitution and respect for European constraints. The structural net debt, in fact, is confirmed on the path that had been foreseen by the DEF presented at the time and that plans to achieve, in 2017, the achievement of the balance of the budget in structural terms and also allows, in 2015, an improvement of the same structural net debt of 0.25 percent. It should also be noted that on this balance the decree allows an improvement with regard to the current year, since only a part of the 0.1% that is foreseen for the coverage of the balance will affect the DEF's policy framework, since these are resources intended for the payment of the arrears of the judgment and therefore of one-off resources used. This is the overall picture that emerges from the Government's report, which, as I have tried to explain, aims both to apply the provisions of the Constitutional Court's judgment with regard to the criteria of adequacy and proportionality, and to maintain compliance with public finance constraints as regards the constraints imposed by our law and those entered into at European level. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u10	We greet the students of the seminary of parliamentary studies and researches "Silvano Tosi" in Florence, who follow our works and who have carried out important studies, which we will be able to avail ourselves of. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u11	I would remind you that the timing of the debate has been divided between the groups as set out by the Conference of Leaders. Motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are thinking about something that has caused a particular stir in the debate on the state of public finance, because we all remember that, when the decision of the Constitutional Court which declared the intervention at the time desired by the Monti Government was unlawful, so many have gone up to say theirs. I remember just now - he is not the President of the Republic, so I can quote him, isn't he, Mr Grasso? - what was stated at the time by Deputy Minister Morando, that this sentence would put the public accounts in serious difficulty, but that the sentence itself would be honoured. I still remember the words of the President-in-Office of the Council, who said he was not concerned, although the effort required would have been challenging. He came precisely to define this condition as an absence of concern, contrasting what had been said precisely in those hours by Deputy Minister Morando. Well, why this contradiction? For a simple reason: the President of the Council, perhaps already at the time, had decided not to apply a judgment of the Constitutional Court. In fact, as can be read in all the reports that have accompanied the analyses carried out on what is decided by Decree-Law No. 65 of 21 May 2015, it can be found that the return that is made by the Italian Government, by the Italian State, of what is illegitimately and debt stolen from pensioners is equal to little less than 12% of what is actually due. As a result, addressing the children in particular, he recapitulates: there is a decision of the Constitutional Court that requires to return all the ill removed. Very well, the Government decides to return a little less than an eighth: between everything and a little less than an eighth there is a sea of difference, but this is Italy! It is an Italy which, for example, forgets how much the President of the Council himself, in a famous television show, which is just urged and pressed by the questions of journalists, said about the need to reform pensions. On that occasion Renzi argued that it was necessary - yes - to intervene, but first of all, to consider that the system of calculation according to the remuneration method was still, then and even more so today, something that shouts scandal if we then have categories - but, I say, even more, individual, or, even better, privileged - that receive pensions that are even higher than 60, 70 percent compared to the amount that these pensions would have if they were calculated with the contribution system. When does the "breaker" follow the words? In fact, these considerations have been made by Matteo Renzi and not by anyone else and it seems to me that Matteo Renzi, unfortunately for all of us Italians, has been in the government of the country for now fifteen months. Moreover, I would also like to reason for cumulation, because this is another taboo topic. In fact, among those who are privileged there are those who, for example, can accumulate multiple pension treatments, as well as pension treatments and self-employed or self-employed treatments. It would be necessary to reason on all this. I have listened carefully to what Senator Paleotti has just said (I do not remember the full name of his colleague and I apologise), but let us remember that the macro-economy cannot fail to take into account the demands of social justice that are very clear to anyone who has a minimum knowledge of our Constitution. It is therefore true that the establishment of the contributory system is based on solidarity principles precisely because, in Article 53 of the Constitution, it is stated that those who have the most must give the most. However, in this case it is equally true that, intervening with the usual very low profile for which everyone is struck indiscriminately, the sacrifice that has been demanded by so many is not staggered at all. This is one of the reasons (but not the only one) why there would be so much and so much to object to this decision of the Executive. Finally, I would like to recall the absurdity of the budget balance that you - especially you - wanted to insert into the Constitution, except then do as that crocodile crying after overdoing. Well, politics is serious. I do not know if I have to put myself in relation to Renzi one, Renzi two, Renzi three, Renzi four "vengeance" because this is what our President-in-Office of the Council says. I repeat: I don't know. I would simply like a more serious government, but above all more just. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur has explained very well the legislative framework and the figures relating to the document submitted to us by the Government, so I do not want to speak on this part of the subject. On the other hand, I would prefer to make a few more general points, partly because I believe that the political debate on this should focus on it. Similarly, the legislative framework in which Decree-Law No 65 of 2015 and the reasons for which this House is called upon to intervene seem clear to me. We are in fact in the context of new budgetary discipline and European legislation which, since 2015, has imposed an increasing interaction between Member States and the European Commission on the issues of budgetary balances. This is a framework that had changed significantly earlier with the new Article 81 of the Constitution, which has changed the very nature of our budgetary document and our law of stability. No less, we are in the context of the effects of one of the most serious financial crises in our country, which since 2011 has seen us bear increasing costs for all citizenship, so much so that in that context, in 2011 alone in particular, there have been three corrective manoeuvres that our country has had to face, for a global value of more than 200 billion. Two of them, following the radical change in the pension system, have taken a forward action on the growth of social security expenditure - which cannot be tolerated under those conditions - in existing legislation or in their non-compatibility with existing constraints. These are maneuvers that in 2013 allowed Italy to exit the condition of infringement and to obtain in 2014 and for the next three years access to the flexibility provided by the European treaties for a gradual and more careful exit from the crisis situation, precisely because it is accompanied by a broad programme of shared reforms. As the rapporteur has made clear, the intervention on the pension system has allowed the country to block a negative spiral, avoiding remaining in breach conditions. In this regard, a rigid response and an accountant's restoration such as that hoped by some would have caused us to fall back into that spiral, frustrating four years of sacrifices in the country. The first consideration is as follows: the debate of the first days, following the judgment, has been handed over to a dualism that is not fruitful - but I see that even today, with my colleague Morra, we return to it - because it represents defensive positions on the part of some political representatives, assigning to the Court disattentions and omissions, in some cases even political designs; then there are those who, on the other hand, thought they could use the opportunity given by the judgment, objectively costly, to put our Government in trouble and in crisis. These are extreme and wrong positions in the face of both a constitutional body and the general interests of the country. It is wrong to give partisan political intervention to the Constitutional Court, when it is to demand that it chooses, conditioned by the budget, which is instead the responsibility of politics. As also stated by the rapporteur, by judgment No 70 of 2015, the Court, in declaring the first period of paragraph 25 of Article 24 of Decree-Law No 201 of 2011, so-called Salva Italia, has considered the limits of reasonableness to be crossed, in terms of proportionality and adequacy of pension benefits. If we wanted to synthesize, too dry and too rigid the jump, after the triple of the minimum of pensions, a staircase that did not meet the constitutional criteria. Now, the right to retain purchasing power and expectations and to have an adequate performance was considered by the Court to be unreasonablely sacrificed in the name of financial requirements not detailed in detail. It is possible to intervene here, whether or not the legislative path actually illustrated it: however, this is the fact and what the Court has pointed out. I wonder: did the Court not have to do so, because of the economic conditions of the country? I consider this unreasonable position to be the bearer of grave consequences of distortion, because it is the task of the Court to call for respect for the necessary constitutional rights, whereas it is the task of politics to make the choices, when it is necessary to make them between more rights and options. It would be difficult for the Court to rule only in a predefined economic framework, which is never neutral, when the rules which Parliament approves are applied to it. It would therefore be impossible for the Court to rule on a right of burden, if Parliament or the Government, in its choices, had already committed the whole budget to less than fundamental expenditure. On the other hand, fundamental rights could be denied through legislative rules that favour spending choices conditioned by partisan and non-general interests. Should this prevent the Court from ruling, because the state budget is already fully committed? I think it is the duty and obligation of the Court to rule on constitutional rights even when they are not properly respected - indeed, especially if they are not - and the task of politics is to make the most appropriate choices to apply them, even by modifying previous decisions. And that it cannot be the Court that replaces politics in decisions also results from the fact, appropriately clarified by the Court itself after the first controversy, that the judgment - dear Senator Morra - is not self-applicable, does not bind the modalities of application, nor does it oblige the pure and simple deletion of the norm; indeed, it clarifies to those who had considered to use the judgment as an instrument against the Government, that the application and the overcoming of the denounced unconstitutionality are totally referred to a responsibility of the same Government, to the specification of the conditions given and to the restoration of proportionality and adequacy to the limits possible. The Court's ruling, therefore, not only does not make politics a commissioner, but confirms that politics, faced with a contingent financial situation, can and must intervene, but must do so respecting the proportionality and adequacy that the Constitution guarantees to all. If the Court had given the green light, in the case of similar precedents and even in the specific situation and in other precedents it recognized the possibility of those blocks, it also acknowledged that in Decree-Law No 201 of 2011 there is a diversity, namely the biennial and not annual duration of the block of adaptation and, above all, the non-progressiveness of that block, because it is total over three times the minimum, violating the principle of adequacy, Article 38 of the Constitution, and the sufficiency of pension treatment, provided for in Article 36 of the Constitution. I make a third consideration of the decree-law. I think that the government's reports, validated by figures and contained by the Parliament's budgetary office, are clear on the limits within which to intervene. The rapporteur's words are clear. The limits are the possible spaces in 2015, in 2016 and in the following years, already sufficiently and adequately extended by the condition of flexibility obtained by the Italian Government, thanks to the path of reforms started in the last two years, the insurmountable limit of the deficit-GDP ratio for this year and for the coming years and the insurmountable limit of the structural lowering of the debt and the medium-term objective. Within this margin, the Government responded to the Constitutional Court's ruling by favoring lower pensions. Is this a biased opinion? I do not think so, and the Parliamentary Budget Office itself, in pointing out that the decree provides for a very partial refund - i.e. 12% of the total - but clearly acknowledges that it concentrates the limited resources in the retired classes with lower treatment, attenuating the "scale effect" generated by the rule declared unconstitutional. To those who then say that this initiative of the Court takes away power and force from politics, I say that it restores balance, leaving intact the functions and prerogatives of politics. On the other hand, Decree No 65 of 2015 moves within the budgetary constraints and not outside them, and tends to carry out a rebalancing action, not only within a pension system that had been burdened in that way by the articulated one, but, if we look also at the choices of the last year, we see that it moves within an action of rebalancing the wider system of low incomes, on which we have already intervened before the law of stability and then with the latter, as regards incomes up to 1.000 euros. As for the coverage - it is my last consideration - I think it is clear that this comes from what was called the treasure, already provided by the DEF, available, under the conditions given, for any further investments. What has been chosen to do under a constitutional rule to be applied is to use that little treasure to rebalance the lowest pensions. That little treasure was present at the conditions of growth that are not invented in the DEF, but are confirmed to an even greater extent by the major international institutions and even if this does not secure the accounts from extraordinary conditions not predictable, such as the case of a Greek exit from the euro, however it is on those numbers that we make the forecasts and on those numbers that the Government and Parliament can make their budget. Ultimately, I think that this decree has produced an important effect of rebalancing income in the country, which has been a net choice on lower incomes: to them two thirds of the intervention are destined against a third that would have been destined in the case of the full cost, obviously of lower size, but with a principle and a shared right, codified and clear. I think that the government has done well, that it has made a right choice, constitutionally recognized and - I say this disrespectfully with regard to the Constitution, but that is certainly not my will, nor my intention, because I think the Constitution is right - it has made a left-wing choice above all. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u15	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u16	Dear colleagues, it is not my intention to produce a constitutional commentary on the judgment that is at the origin of the government's measure under discussion. However, it is not possible to fail to note that this decision of the Court has raised many doubts among the constitutionalists themselves. First of all because it runs counter to previous decisions: it is enough to compare it with the judgment n.10 of 2015 (the Robin tax) rendered only a few weeks before, in order to spontaneously raise the question of what is the point of view of constitutional jurisprudence in the difficult question relating to the balance between rights and economic and financial balance of the State. Those who read the two decisions in parallel would be faced with an antithetical interpretation of the constitutional value of Article 81. According to some, then, the judgment n. 70 of 2015 (on which today we try to spread a veil) would even represent a bad page that has a delegitimante effect on the same Court, yet another real trespassing of the judges in the sphere reserved for politics, aggravated also by the split in half that would be consumed within the college and that testifies how tearing and divisive the choice adopted. When questions that have significant economic repercussions for the state budget and for the rights of taxpayers and citizens of different generations are being discussed, it would perhaps be more appropriate for the Court to declare the mere incompatibility of the laws against constitutionem, thereby leaving wide freedom to legislative policy in finding an adequate and responsible response to the citizens of the electorate. However, judgments must always be respected, and I would not like to appear to be affected by that typical vice of Italian politics of parties or movements that dare and criticize the Constitutional Court at alternate stages. In this regard, I would like to censor what was seen in the recent election campaign, with the party race to defend the automatic revaluation of all pensions in order to go against the Government and earn some more votes, even when this position appeared to be in perfect opposition to what was otherwise supported by those same parties. As I find it right to censor those who, in the Government, criticized the Court's ruling showing little institutional respect. Respect for judgments does not mean, however, that a real and fundamentally political problem is not recognized. It is probably true that, as has been pointed out, it was not inevitable to block pensions in 2011 and that alternative interventions could be put in place; but it is also true that it cannot be denied that the problem of intergenerational solidarity is now strongly posed. In fact, I will say more, a problem of intergenerational justice. Maybe we want to deny the evidence, that is that the Italy that we are leaving to the young citizens (who follow us also from the forums, indeed have gone away, maybe have lost hope!) is an excessively generous state with them than it has been and is it for their fathers and grandparents? The contributory method for pensions, the lack of work for young people, the blocking of wage increases in the public service, the economic crisis which conditions in negative contractual renewals in the private sector, public health which will be less and less free for patients, the reduction of the protection of permanent workers not only represent a worsening of their future expectations or a loss of purchasing power, but are the condemnation of an entire generation called upon to pay the debts of their fathers. Fathers who sit at the command posts until death and who judge from those command posts what is right acquired and what is not. They judge what is privilege and what is not. It is not surprising, therefore, if privilege becomes young with an indeterminate job protected by Article 18 and, instead, protecting the revaluation of a pension higher than that which would be due on the basis of the contributions actually paid becomes defence of an acquired right. Well, then, the government has acted as it has done, and my opinion on this report is positive. But even more should be done to ensure that such situations do not occur again in the future. We should promote a constitutional change that would affirm with greater clarity and force a sacred principle: the right that the new generations have to be protected from the rights acquired by the old when these become privileges in the light of changed economic and social contexts. Finally, as the investigation by Pisauro, President of the Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget, says, this exogenous event will make the treasure disappear, reducing the room for manoeuvre. This will eventually certainly lead to an increase in VAT, to cash; it will be a cost to everyone, especially in terms of productivity and work. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u17	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u18	Mr President, I would like to say straight away that we absolutely do not agree with the Government's report to Parliament to update the Economic and Financial Document, because we consider it inadequate and insufficient. We are very concerned about the confusion in which the President-in-Office of the Council finds himself. In fact, after the decision of the Constitutional Court that is the subject of this discussion, on 18 May the Prime Minister, in an official press conference, in the presence of Minister Poletti, said: When this rule was passed (...) I used to plug the holes in Florence. It is the end that now those who voted for it say that everything must be returned. And he said that it is simply ridiculous that those who wanted that rule criticize us who want to remedy the damage done by the Fornero law. Deputy Minister, you should explain to the President-in-Office of the Council that this rule was approved by a parliamentary majority of which the Democratic Party was part, that he participated in the primaries for the leadership of the Democratic Party secretariat and that in those same days he stated that the Fornero law was a good law. As I said, we are very concerned because we have also read a recent interview, after the election results of the last few weeks, in which the President of the Council, speaking of himself, said that there is a Renzi one and a Renzi two, the day after he also said that there are plans A and plans B. We have to worry about the situation we are in, because we have a President-in-Office of the Council who says that Renzi one would not lose the elections, while there was a Renzi two who allowed some people inside his party to lead the elections, to choose the wrong candidates and, consequently, to lose this electoral competition. I believe that a premier who affirms these things or suffers from a split of personality, a crisis of identity, or is saying things that are neither in heaven nor on earth; in both cases we are in a very worrying situation, because the problems of the President of the Council cannot fall on the destinies of the country and on the skin of the citizens. We believe that this judgment of the Constitutional Court must be defended because we have a concern: that the acquired rights of pensioners, beyond those which have been the subject of the rule in question (i.e. medium-high pensions) must be defended. In fact, in the future, the acquired rights of pensioners who have a pension well lower than that attacked by the Fornero law and the Democratic Party in December 2011 could also be affected, creating a precedent for which Parliament can decide to reduce the pension of citizens. We believe that this is a worrying step, even more so because there is a debate at European level on Greece these days: the current Greek Government has been asked to reduce pension benefits to citizens, but not exclusively to those Greek citizens who enjoy medium-high pensions, but to all citizens. If this is the future for our country, in which the troika or the European Commission can commit and oblige national governments to adopt such rules, I believe that it is Parliament's duty to defend the rights of pensioners and not, as the current Government does, circumvent the judgments of the Constitutional Court. Speaking of numbers, in fact, we must point out that, in the face of the rule of December 2011, which in fact has taken away from the pockets of Italian pensioners a sum of around 17.6 billion euros, the Government intends to return only 2.2 billion. What happens to the other 15.4 billion? He's not gonna return them. This is obviously a patch on the part of the Government to a sentence that is clear; it is a begging that is painted as a gift by the President of the Council, as if it were his will to give this gift, while it is not. We find ourselves strong, therefore, to a government that allocates imaginary resources, increases public debt without any concern with financials that always go in this direction, continues to increase taxes without worrying about the effects they have on the real economy and continues to multiply the safeguard clauses, putting mortgages on mortgages and signing bills on bills of exchange. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. TOSATO (LN-Aut). This situation is not good for us: the Government is not acting in the interests of the country and there is a President of the Council who has lost his sense of reality. All these elements concern us very much and for these reasons we can only give a negative assessment of the Government's report. [[Applause from Senator Comaroli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u19	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2011 he cashed in with pensioners. This has been done by the Fornero law and the Constitutional Court has made it clear that this has happened unlawfully. Let us repair and repair ourselves in an honest way: try to imagine if it is possible for someone who causes damage - damage that is clarified in the entity and existence - to compensate him only in part because he cannot be too indebted by paying his dues. The government's behaviour on the issue of the recovery of the indexing of pensions, illegitimately eliminated by Fornero, is the classic example of a patch worse than the hole. The Government has stated that with the decree-law it has safeguarded the objectives of public finance, combining this path with the solidarity criteria within the social security system and with the principles of adequacy, graduality, proportionality and so on. Said in money, consider that our citizens - we are talking about people earning 1,200-1,400 euros per month - retirees, cannot correct their economic situation; they are often also very old people. The government told these people it would save goats and cabbages, but it's not. Allow me to make a joke: the Government saves the goats of the European Union and cabbages are pensioners, who see a right affirmed by the Council and see their satisfaction denied by a failing Government. It'll be said there's no money. Now, the answer is too easy: there is money in all known waste, because it is denounced in this House too, but beneficial for individuals and social partners protected by this Government. Another problem is that the choices made by the European Union, and by Italy which, on the other hand, accepts them, are aimed at the reduction of the socio-economic rights of constitutionally guaranteed citizens; those same rights which are regarded by the markets as hindering the free deployment of the energies of large companies; such obstacles as to require the modification of the Constitutions of States and the denial of the participation of citizens in political life. The amendment of the Constitution that you are proposing to us significantly reduces the participation of citizens in political life. Colleagues, allow me: I would like and we would like a Government that, as in Greece, opposes the bloodletting of its people instead of a Government that keeps him stationary while he is being slaughtered. One final consideration. Colleagues, acquired rights must be safeguarded by an elementary principle of law: if we change everything, if we say that everything can be changed, the right is no longer there. If we say that the pension earned after so many years of work by a person can be attacked in his purchasing power in this subtle way, with the elimination of indexing, we say that in our Italian State there is no longer a right that can be considered untouchable. Is that what we want? [[Applause from Senator Simeoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u21	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u22	Mr President, when we look at the Government's report on the financial effects of the Constitutional Court's judgment on the indexing of pensions, we express a series of reflections contained in our motion for a resolution, which strongly comply with that provision which intervenes by declaring the constitutional illegitimacy sanctioned by the Court. In view of the fact that the provisions contained in Article 1 of that famous Decree-Law No 65 of 2015, which, by amending the rules on pension revaluation retroactively, define in fact a partial (too partial, in our opinion) refund of the total amounts re-evaluated, we believe that, compared to those 4 million pensioners entitled, the approximately 18 billion - compared to the two who are placed by the Government to partial sanatorium of this measure so wrong in the depth of the constitutional dictation, as has already been recalled, but also in its economic and financial determination - would instead be necessary to avoid the censorship of the Supreme Court for the violation of Articles 36 and 38 of the Constitution. We think this is not going in the right direction. The choice of the Government is obviously dictated by the contingent financial situation (sure, that we know well) and yet it is contrary to the principles of proportionality. This was already pointed out at the time, when that decision was also formed in this House, with all the perplexities and fears about not only the constitutional profile but also the sacrosanct principle of proportionality that we have always invoked. With regard to the right to a pension, which is being violated by this provision and which is now being tried to remedy with the report presented by the Government, too little has been done. According to us, the choice of the government appears substantially in contrast with that principle of budgetary balance that is so much wanted to safeguard, considering that the return in question constitutes an operation that is all in deficit, due to the use of sums deriving from hypothetical resources (which we have called for some time treasured), that the Executive would have identified in the recent Document of economy and finance for 2015. All this is wrong because to go and heal one wrong thing you make another mistake. The full repayment of arrears to all entitled persons constitutes for the whole audience a possibility not only theoretical, but also effective, in the light of some judgments of the judiciary on the appeals lodged against the non indexing of pensions established by the measure save Italy of 2011, and that they have imposed on the INPS the full refund of arrears. We are then faced with a further legal confusion resulting from the constitutional dictation that will result in other appeals and we will continue to chase this error without ever healing it. This possibility, although it represents the most direct way of ensuring compliance with the principle of equal treatment by those who paid contributions and those who must receive an equivalent sum in real and not only monetary terms, would in the short term constitute a vulnus to budgetary discipline, adversely affecting macroeconomic parameters and opening the way to an inappropriate and unsustainable intervention of the safeguard clause and procedures for an excessive deficit which, as highlighted in the report, would constitute an insurmountable obstacle to the possibility of recourse to the reform clause. That is where, in all this mess, the general framework of reference that we must try to safeguard: how balanced is a budget to be safeguarded that, if it were not so, would also put at risk those rules of flexibility that the Government has managed to achieve and that are for us the main objective to look at in order to guarantee, today, tomorrow and always, what is right and what the constitutional norm states, to which we are referring. Having said that, I think that on this occasion too the Government is a sin in dealing with the question of the origin of the resources necessary to heal this legal reproach. The issue of spending review has not been dealt with for too long and as it should be, and it is likely to put our country back not so much and not only on finding urgently needed resources, but in that credibility for which we have committed ourselves to reducing unproductive public spending, which is one of the fundamentals of the reform system that has made our commitment to the European system and the international economic and financial evaluation system convincing. In the context of pensions we do not have the courage to face some strong distortions, which are still present in our system, which is basically the subject of real, economic and monetary evaluation, just as it is right to do in the area of pensions, among those who have actually paid them all, and those who have paid very few and for many years receive a pension that is very disproportionate to what has been paid. There are many such pensions, Mr President: they concern 500,000 people only if we want to look at the case of baby pensions directly issued by the State or public participation. These pensions are worth € 9.5 billion each year, which are many more than these few billions that the government today makes available to heal a mistake, an injustice, a problem and a litigation that - alas - will drag itself over time and that has not ended here, does not end with this sentence. That is why we are opposed to the approach that the Government has given, preferring instead to help and support the Government to do more for the Italian pensioners and to return the malt. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u23	Mr President, there has been a judgment of the Constitutional Court here which has gone on a logical path of what our constitutional dictation imposes on us with regard to the right of the worker to a fair wage. He calls it proportional to the quantity and quality of work sufficient to ensure a free and dignified existence for himself and his family. Of course, someone might already think: But we're talking about pensions, dear Puglia! The answer to this remark is what is written in the Constitutional Court's judgment, even if the Court did not need to remind us of what I am about to say, namely that the pension is a deferred salary: I paid, after that, when I went into quiescence, when I stopped working, you, State, come back to me money. Obviously this money you have to give me back must allow a free and dignified existence to me and my family. How is this free and dignified existence ensured? Through the automatic equalization of pensions. What's that weird word? Simply adjusting the amount of the pension to the cost of living. What happens if I don't fit in? I'm sure that family unit will be in the middle of this. We also remind ourselves that pensioners today have become the social shock absorber of this Italian State, which unfortunately must have unemployment at exaggerated levels. There is no point in the President-in-Office telling us that unemployment is now at a calm level. No, unemployment is and is once again overcoming worrying levels. Very often these pensioners even have to bear the cost and life of their children, who still cannot find work or who had left, had made a family and then were fired from work through the jobs act. Bravo! [[Applause from Senators Simeoni and Airola]] You have also allowed us to make a law that will make it much easier to fire and these people suffer all of this. So, in order for the pensioner to be able to guarantee this dignified life also to his family, which at this point becomes enlarged again, there is a need for these remuneration amounts to be adjusted. Therefore, the sentence said: "Dear State, you must go back what you took, or rather, you did not give in 2012, 2013 and so on." What'd you think about doing "Shish" the easy-to-tweet liar? I am referring to the President-in-Office of the Council, Renzi, but I call him in another way, because then we understand each other and even the Italians understand it. The liar coined a new word: the bonus to pensioners! That said, a person may think: "Ah, how beautiful is he giving me something more; how beautiful, what have I won?." You won nothing, dear pensioner; you simply coined a word to give you what would be yours by law, or even, because it gives you even less. So technically, if he's gonna tell the truth, he's gonna have to say that he's a part of the arrears, and instead he's talking about bonuses. Mr President, I see that time is running out and that was just the premise of what I wanted to say. In any case, we have tabled a motion for a resolution for our part, which my colleague Mr Catalfo will be presenting. However, Mr President, I would like to say that we are in Italy where, on the one hand, workers are being attacked and, on the other hand, we do not want to give money to our pensioners and I no longer recognize myself in it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u24	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with today's report, in accordance with Law No 196 of 2009 (the Law of Accounting and Public Finance), the Government has intended to inform Parliament of the adjustments to the public finance balances necessary for the maintenance of macroeconomic balances following the decision of the Constitutional Court which declared the rule illegal, as referred to in Article 24 of Decree-Law No 201 of 2011, which temporarily blocked the indexation of pensions of more than three times the minimum INPS treatment. The Government intends to carry out the task of explaining to Parliament how budgetary balances can be maintained following a judgment with very heavy economic repercussions of 17.6 billion (of which 4.5 in the competence of this year and with a structural character, 4.37 in 2016 and 4.1 in 2017), simply presenting a two-page document, whose level of synthesis is inversely proportional to that of clarity and completeness. In essence, the government comes to explain to us how the solutions taken to deal with the Constitutional Court's ruling will not have significant economic effects on our public accounts. We are pleased to know this, we are reassured and reassured, at least until the next overall evaluation of our budgetary and policy documents by the European Commission. Everyone's gonna wonder how that's possible. It is simple: the Constitution, the laws, the rules in the Renzi era are rag paper, common sense is a feeling that no longer exists. The report notes that the increased expenditure required to comply with the provisions of the judgment would lead to a deterioration of 1.1 percent of net trend debt, which would increase from the 2.5% indicated in the 2015 DEF to 3.6%. These results would put our country out of compliance with European rules both with regard to the deficit criterion (which for 2015 would be more than 3% of GDP) and with respect to the debt criterion, not allowing the reduction path of the same programmed in the DEF for the purpose of compliance with the rules. Therefore, with Decree-Law No 65 of 2015 a solution is found; a modest, partial, arbitrary solution that tramples on the rights and this time the costs are the pensioners. The Government has therefore adopted a decree-law that recognizes, for the 2012-2013 period, a revaluation with a mechanism for classes, only for certain categories of pensioners and only for a small part of the amount that would be due to them. This mechanism provides for various levels of indexation: for pensions with an amount of three to four times the INPS minimum, 40% of inflation; for pensions with an amount of four to five times the INPS minimum, 20% of inflation; for pensions with an amount of five to six times the INPS minimum, 10% of inflation. Moreover, for the 2014-2015 two-year period, only one fifth of the revaluation recognised by the same refund for 2013 is recognised as partial reimbursement. For 2016 the amount of the refund is a little higher and rises to 50 percent; those who live will see. As the Parliamentary Budget Office reveals, those who have a pension of three and a half times the minimum (about 1.600 euros) will receive a repair of 17.7 euros monthly in 2012 and 37.6 euros in 2013, that is not even half of what would have been due in the absence of the unconstitutional norm. Indeed, the loss for non-indexation was 43.6 euros per month in 2012 and 93.4 euros in 2013. So far we have talked about the most substantial part of the refund, because for 2014 the same pensioner with about 1,600 euros of pension will receive as compensation only 7,5 euros monthly, against a loss of 94.4 euros. In summary, in the three years 2012-2014 the loss for the pensioner was about 230 euros monthly, that is about 3,000 euros total on an annual basis; but he will have back from the Government only 800 euros. In addition, the Government does not provide any reimbursement for those 688,000 pensioners with a cheque of more than six times the minimum, representing about 16% of those 4,400,000 pensioners involved in the overall judgment of the Court. The Parliamentary Budget Office also notes that the Decree-Law provides for a very partial refund of non-indexation, i.e. less than 12% of the total, by concentrating the limited resources in the classes of pensioners with lower treatment. In summing up: in the face of a loss due to the lack of indexing of more than 21 billion euros, the Government allocates less than 3, excluding almost 700,000 pensioners from the repair mechanism. The intervention of the decree-law limits the reimbursements to an expenditure of 0.13% of GDP in 2015 and 0.03% in the following years. That is why we believe that everything should be returned to everyone, in the ways and forms to be determined in the most appropriate and correct way, which we have pointed out on time in the motion for a resolution that we have tabled. Otherwise we will probably have to think of a whole series of other appeals that will put the state's coffers in further difficulty. Finally, the Government plans to cover these expenses using the positive difference between the trend debt and the programmatic one found in the DEF 2015 (the infamous treasurer). Once again, however, we find problems of coverage of this decree-law, because the Government intends to finance a measure of expenditure through a budget savings not yet recorded, which will be accounted for only by the laws of settling. In other words, the financing of the reimbursement of pensions is usually provided with an accounting trick. Already then, when the DEF was approved, we had warned the Government of the development of spending measures without certain coverage. But now the issue returns even more serious and stringent, because it is a matter of returning money unjustly stolen from millions of Italian pensioners. In conclusion, I would like to stress the obvious hypocrisy of all the left-wing narrative which, in recent decades, has incessantly taught that the judgments must not be contested, but must be faithfully respected, accepting and giving full follow-up to what the judges from time to time have. Obviously, now that there is the left in the government, the decisions of the Constitutional Court can be ignored or disapplied or applied only partially and insofar as they do not constitute an obstacle to the action of the Government, which must proceed expedited and without obstacles. Finally, I note that it makes little sense to say, as President Renzi has done several times: We were not there; we are repairing a trouble done and voted by those who criticize us. It makes little sense because the rule has also been voted by the Democratic Party itself (of which President Renzi today is also secretary), which today supports the Government and whose actions, even past, must be fully assumed responsibility. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u26	Senator Sangalli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u27	Mr President, I intend to use less than the 15 minutes I have been allocated for the course of the speech, given the very interesting things that the debate has made us listen to and, above all, what the rapporteur has said, which has made clear the terms of the difficult affair that we are facing. As a personal first consideration, I have to say something. In 2011 I was in the Senate, along with other senators I see here today, voting on this measure, in an atmosphere that seems forgotten by the country; obviously, the memory is very short [[Applause from Senator Tonini]] , however, since this is a room that can only be accessed after 40 years of age, no one can say that in 2011 it was not yet born. [[Applause from Senators Santini and Tonini]] Of course we all remember the situation: we were on the edge of the abyss (this was the term used most frequently). I went to write down what was in 2011 the value of the spread (word that became famous in Italy in 2011; before nobody used it and nobody knew what it was). In January 2011, the spread was 173 points compared to the performance of the German Treasury bonds. On December 30, the spread was instead of 528 points. It was said that if it had increased, roughly, by 100 basis points, we would have to close the country and declare it bankrupt. This would have meant no more paying pensions (not integration and contingency, but pensions); it would have meant no more paying salaries to civil servants; it would have meant, for a country as complex as ours and with a stock of debt like what we have on our shoulders for a long time, no more being in a position to operate. We would have been in an even worse situation than Greece is in these days. This is better remembered because that measure, which contained various measures, is the one that grafted the reverse than the abyss we were in. If we are here today to discuss what we could do, we owe it to the fact that, at that time, Parliament (among other things, in its great unity) had the courage to take unpopular measures. Parliament has dealt with many unpopular measures, on some of which it has also made mistakes. In fact, when things have to be done quickly, mistakes are also made. Of course, however, with that measure the social security system of our country has been safeguarded, which - I would like to remind you - is a more robust system than that of many other European countries. It is, in fact, a system that guarantees pension and pension according to the mechanisms and various reforms that have been made over the years (unfortunately, in the years some reverse has been done). We guarantee pensions for the coming decades with a balance between what we pay for retirement, the pensions that are taken by current pensioners and a solidarity system that is not based on contribution and remuneration, but on the fact that those who work now pay the pension to those who are retired now. This is the solidarity behind our system, which, of course, holds if we can make policies that create more jobs, that occupy more people, that increase gross domestic product and that allow young people and those who are at work to pay their pensions, which is the pension of those who are now retired. These premises are also the basis of the reasoning that I want to make and that must be well considered when evaluating what we can do from now on. I have also read excerpts from the judgment of the Constitutional Court - with absolute legal incompetence, however - that, of course, I think we must respect, as well as the Constitutional Court itself, for its full function. The judgment, however, says things not so peregrine with respect to the decree-law that we are about to consider, nor so different from its content, i.e. that we must respect, but safeguarding and maintaining, above all, the lowest pensions, indexed. This was already done in 2001, but this is all the more true now, because an intervention quota is being moved to the lowest part of those who have been punished by non-indexation. By the way, we are talking here about 30% of Italian pensioners, who have the pension that goes from three to six times the minimum. They are all pensions calculated using the remuneration method. I would like you to know, since we are talking about this: they are all pensioners who have earned their pension using the pay method; it is not that they have committed a crime, but that was the method by which pensions were calculated and who now all say with great peace of mind that they want to change, to make the contribution system pass those who have paid under a pay contract; we complain, but if you can not index a share of those pensions. In other words, we would like to remove the pensioners we are talking about 50% or 60% of their pension, while safeguarding the fact that 8% of the purchasing power has not been paid in three years: it would be useful to have less hypocrisy and a greater link to facts and data. Do we have to give it back? We give back, but to whom? To the lower bands (near the first, second and third), then to the fourth and fifth; we return according to systems of graduality, which are those that the Court recalls, saying: Attention, you cannot block the indexing of pensions from the day-to-day period; it does not say that you cannot block the indexing of pensions, but that you must do so for a limited time, with measures explicitly stated in their purpose. In fact, the government's measure corrects the two years, limits the intervention over time and acts exactly in line with what the Court has told us. Of course, we would all like to return to pensioners what has not been given to them, with interest, and no one here would not want to give full indexation, but we give what we can give on the basis of the principle that we must not only respond to Europe and correspond to Article 81 of the Constitution on balanced budgets, but also maintain some resources to make policies that allow us not only to engage but to drag economic recovery (which will certainly protect pensions and citizens' income). The effort should be common in analyzing things: did we make a decision on the basis of a state of necessity; was it perfect legally? She wasn't perfect legally. Many things had to be done even if they were not perfect legally, but today we have a country that hangs up the economic recovery, puts new energies in the field, it is within the European parameters, it has come out of the European infringement procedure and it is in a condition in which it can deal in Europe, we hope also in a more determined and determined way than has happened in the past years. We are in a condition in which growth can be grafted, which is the only condition to be able to create that minimum of balance, solidarity and graduality in the choices that are made, without which there will be no indexing able to protect someone. In order to come to the last thing I want to say, when we talk about public money, we avoid thinking that they are different from those of families or companies, because they are the same, that we cannot print with the monopolist machine, to make more pensioners, more civil servants, more guarantees, more holidays for all and more all that is needed in the public sector and, on the other hand, there must be a private sector that feeds permanently all public spending. This is not the case: the wealth that produces a country is made up of a set of voices, but it is the wealth that comes from the market that feeds the whole of public structure and wealth. Therefore, we should pay more attention to this market: it cannot be proposed, as I have heard these days, to take away resources from companies in order to restore the share of indexing pensions, because the risk is to shut down businesses and not to pay pensions or public wages anymore. I therefore ask a little more attention to what is said and a little more consistency in the reasoning. It cannot be proposed to save indexing and send the entire pay system to that country at once: be careful to say such things, because they combine big problems. It's like going in with a caterpillar in a crystal store, throwing it all down in one shot and then saying we saved the plaster. Attention, because you can make bigger trouble than the ones you tend to correct. There are things that need to be corrected and we will correct them as we can, with the strength we have to do so: I hope it is a conscious force. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u28	The debate is closed. I note that the following motions for resolutions have been tabled: No 1, Senator De Petris and other senators, No 2, Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, No 3, Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, No 4, Senator Centinaio and other senators, No 5, Senator Catalfo and other senators, and No 6, Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. The lyrics are in distribution. As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in reply, I can speak to the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Morando, to whom I also ask you to indicate which of the motions for resolutions the Government intends to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u29	Mr President, I would like to thank all those who have spoken during the debate, of course from the rapporteur, who, in my opinion, has put the debate on the right track, namely that of an objective assessment, in a context in which we must meet principles and objectives which are also partly contradictory. First of all, I would like to start with an issue that has been raised less explicitly during the debate in this House, but a little more precisely in the course of the debate in the Commission, concerning the relationship between Parliament's decisions and the decisions of other bodies, including those of the supervisory bodies, such as, in this case, the Constitutional Court. To do so, I would like to start from a point of view. In this regard, I will mention the Court of Auditors and its 2015 Report on the coordination of public finance, which we presented just a few days ago, in a room which you yourself, Mr President, kindly granted to the Court of Auditors to carry out this debate. The point is as follows: the underlying orientation of the Italian Government's budgetary policy in recent months - let us say in this year and a half - has seen a real turning point. To put it in the words used by the Court of Auditors in the report I have already mentioned, the Government has explicitly abandoned the hypothesis of fiscal policy neutrality, moving towards an approach which, on the contrary, refuses to adopt restrictive manoeuvres at a still flexing stage of the economic cycle. It is the Court of Auditors that says that and I hope it will not be said that this judgment has also been made on the basis of what pressure on the part of the President-in-Office of the Council or who else I cannot say. Twice, the first invoking the clause of the so-called continuation of a serious recession, the second in applying the reform clause, the Government has proposed, and Parliament has chosen, a programmatic target of debt different and worse, that is larger, than net debt under existing legislation. I would like to make it clear what that means, because that is what the basic orientation of economic and fiscal policy is. This complicated sentence means the following: if the Government and Parliament did not intervene with budgetary economic and fiscal policy decisions, the level of indebtedness would be "X," as documented by the budget under current legislation, but the Government proposes, and Parliament has arranged, not to accept this outcome and therefore to want to promote an expansionary fiscal policy, which would worsen the level of indebtedness; this means that the debt that is to be achieved is worse and greater than debt to existing legislation. In this sense - and this is the fundamental point - it can be documented, on the basis of the trivial numbers, that the underlying fiscal policy orientation of the Italian Government, by Parliament's decision, has become procyclical, i.e. restrictive in recession, to anticyclical, i.e. it is proposed to worsen the programmatic indebtedness, considering that it is no longer possible to continue on the ground that we have had to practice in the past restrictive fiscal policies that, according to objectives of fiscal consolidation, lead to a further reduction of gross domestic product, that is, a further worsening of the recession. In both cases - the point is very important - the Community bodies have shared, have not opposed the choice of the Italian Parliament, until the recent communications of two months ago of the Commission, which in turn constitute evidence of a significant evolution. I find it quite disconcerting that this element is not at the centre of the debate, since in Italy we have talked about these basic guidelines for a long time, denouncing their essentially recessive character (austerity is not expansive, it was said) and that therefore public finance measures of a recessive nature were being introduced in an already crisis context, exacerbating the crisis. Well, the Commission's latest communications on the direction of the prevention of excessive imbalances have changed, and it is on the basis of those guidelines that the opinion on the choice of the Italian Government to adopt an expansive budgetary policy has been positive. This development - and I say this incidentally, but I would like to say this - of the orientation of the European Commission and the Community bodies on the criteria for the exercise of the activity of preventing excessive imbalances has something to do with the work carried out by Italy as a whole, not only by the Italian Government, during the months preceding and during the European Presidency of the Italian Government. We have, in fact, concentrated on this point, that is to say on changing the orientation of the Community bodies on the criteria for the exercise of the activity of preventing excessive imbalances, our initiative during that period. Now, the question that one might ask me is exactly as follows: what does all this have to do with the Court's ruling on measures to adjust pensions to prices, which we are discussing here? My opinion is that it has a lot to do with it. Why? As has been said by the rapporteur, and as is written in the report presented by the Government and documented in an unmistakable way by the Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget - a third body, which is therefore able to assess the technical correctness and the basis in terms of economic and technical analysis of the figures and assessments made available by the Government, by Parliament itself - the mere application of the judgment, i.e. the return to the previous legislation - because the mere application of the judgment would have meant: to return to the previous legislation, i.e. to the rules on pension adjustment laid down by Law No 388 of 2000 - would have caused at the same time, ipso facto, as is said, the violation, before the European rules, of Article 81 of the Constitution, to which I will return later. Secondly, it would have led to the violation of the resolution adopted by the Chambers, with a qualified majority - as the rapporteur has pointed out - on the objectives of debt and structural balance for 2015; these objectives, which the Government had been committed to achieving by Parliament - not by another body outside Italy, or by a technical body that is in Italy - with a resolution even approved - you know - by an absolute majority of the votes of those entitled to the House and the Senate. We would have violated all this by simply applying the sentence, in the sense of returning to the legislation before us. Thirdly, we would have led to a breach of the 3% deficit-to-GDP rule, which is set not by the 'famous' fiscal compact, but by the Maastricht Treaty, which we all consider to be positive. We will have determined the violation of the rule on the rate of approach to the medium-term objective, i.e. the rule on the so-called structural balance (the budget balance net of the budgetary effects of economic cycle developments and one-off measures). And we will have determined the violation of the debt rule, which is increasingly important in the European context, and which, in any case, for us, is a rule that we know we have to meet, beyond the requirements proposed by the European technical rules, because our budget has a total debt too large in relation to gross domestic product. Finally, we would have violated the European rule on the characteristics and nature of expenditure. It is said that what you are saying, what you have said and what the rapporteur has said and that the violation of all these sums would not have been automatic, is not said to have happened, because the resolutions, which are of course presented in full legitimacy by the oppositions, say that we could have paid for the full adjustment, with a return to the previous legislation, to the prices of pensions from 13 to 17 billion, depending on the various solutions proposed in the same resolutions, by making an additional maneuver of public finance in the middle of the year entirely on the expenditure side - as some resolutions say - for figures that are higher - as I have told you - to a point of gross domestic product. I shall not dwell, because it is almost useless, on the rate of realism of such a direction: is it possible in the middle of the year, with an extraordinary maneuver, to make such an operation on the expenditure side, without determining immediate and powerful recessive effects on the performance of the Italian economy, which is tirelessly and timidly coming out of the very long recession that, in fact, we know uninterruptedly from 2008 to today? On the other hand, I would like to focus on the relationship that would have had such a choice with those same rules that we say we want to comply with. This is, in essence, an alternative that was not feasible, because - this is the point that concerns the role of the parliamentary decision - following a path of full application, with a return to the existing legislation in terms of adjustment of pensions to prices, we would have essentially determined the absolute impossibility for Italy, and not for the Renzi Government, to invoke the clause of the so-called structural reforms for the adoption of an expansionary budgetary policy. And we would therefore have been immediately forced to return to a restrictive budgetary orientation policy in a context of stagnation, if not of immediate return to recession. And, in doing so, what would we have achieved? We would have clearly violated Parliament's stance on the need to give this change to the fundamental orientation of the Italian Government's economic and fiscal policy. A choice of this kind would, in fact, have changed the sign of the fiscal policy of the Italian Government, whose characters I have already described. It is a consequence - and I say this quite clearly - that it could not and should not have been accepted either by the Government or by Parliament as a whole, because it contradicts the precise direction expressed by Parliament itself when assessing and deciding on budgetary documents. That's why the government acted to enforce the sentence. I would like to thank the Senator who mentioned a judgment I expressed at a hot time, immediately after the judgment was issued, when I stated that the sentence had to be respected, knowing that there are limits of public finance that must in turn be fully respected. We have, in fact, moved within two limits: on the one hand, absolute respect and application of the judgment of the Constitutional Court; on the other hand, respect for the boundaries defined by Parliament for the budgetary policy of our Republic. From this point of view, the problem has been raised - and I am going to conclude quickly, Mr President - that in reality we would not have respected the judgment of the Court. We are told that it is not true that we have respected it, but we have bypassed it. This was the critical assessment that emerged during the debate. Now, I would like to say firmly that we think exactly the opposite, as has been said by those who have spoken during the debate, and finally Senator Sangalli. The Constitutional Court justifies the illegality, declared by itself, of the block of pensions, decreed by the Monti Government in December 2011, on the basis of two precise reasons, which derives - excuse me if I return for a moment with the memory of the Court - from a comparative evaluation of the content of the decree of 2011, of which we are discussing, compared to the blocks of the automatic adjustment of the pensions operated before that rule. And also the Court makes a long review of the blocks operated later, as for example by the Government Read in 2013. Well, the Court justifies the declaration of illegitimacy with two assessments of the diversity of the text of the Monti decree compared to the previous and subsequent ones. The source of diversity and, therefore, of illegitimacy - the Court clearly states that it continues to consider legitimate both the other previous interventions and the subsequent intervention - is twofold: on the one hand, the blockade is too long, i.e. operated for two years instead of one; secondly, it is operated in a key that has no content of progressiveness, i.e. after three times the minimum blocking of automatic adjustment is total. The Court says that, in previous interventions, the blockade was progressive. What have we done? We have assessed that, in the Court's judgment, the declaration of illegality is based on these two points and we have acted on the basis of the overcoming of these two factors of illegality. This is so true that, in the block, we go on to consider the need for progressiveness, which has been explained analytically and it is not appropriate that now it is resumed (between three times and four times the minimum there is a percentage of adjustment, as there is between four and five times and between five and six times). Therefore, the progressiveness has been fully restored and, according to this restoration, there is also a refreshment, partial certainly, of what was to be evaluated as raising the starting mountain, from which later revaluation interventions will have to take the move. For this reason, I context the claim that the judgment was circumvented and not enforced. We have, therefore, acted to implement the Court's judgment that fully embraces the reasons for it, but retains the balance of budgetary policy as defined by Parliament. It is clear that the solution adopted is intended explicitly to favour the lowest pensions, because this had led us openly to consider the judgment of the Court itself. In particular, you have seen that the adjustment to price increases is more significant for pensions, which are at this point the vast majority numerically, which go to join those up to three times the minimum for an adjustment principle that is almost complete between three and four times the minimum. Of course, it is through this road that we think we have fully applied, within the limits of the budgetary decisions taken by Parliament, the principles of adequacy and proportionality. I would really like to make one last comment, Mr President, on the assessments that have been made here, on the new article - relatively new, since it has been amended for three years now - 81 of the Constitution, because perhaps a deepening of this issue in Parliament is useful to everyone. Basically, what has the new version of Article 81, which is now in our Constitution, innovated? Going to the essential, the letter and the spirit of the old Article 81, that is, of what we had until a few years ago, made the budget law a law that, in technical terms, was defined merely formal, that is, a mirror law: tell me what all the spending laws and all the laws of entry into force at this time provide. The budget law was nothing more than the translation into accounting language, the numbers, of what the existing spending laws and the existing revenue laws provide. This is... [[Comments of Senator Candiani]] I'll finish when I'm done. Anyway, it's the President who decides, and not you, Senator. I'm sorry. Taking up the thread, the budget law is a mirror law, in a purely formal sense, because there could not be a content different from that mechanically induced by the application of the existing legislation on expenditure and revenue. What does the new version of Article 81 do? It continues to respect this character of the budget law, but it introduces its own content, as is said in technical terms, i.e. an objective which the budget law as such must achieve, budgetary balance, taking into account the evolution of the economic cycle and so on. First, the budget law was only formal; now it is still formal in terms of its consistency with the existing legislation on expenditure and revenue, but a specific objective is added, which the budget law as such must achieve. From this point of view, there is no doubt that everyone, including the Constitutional Court, who certainly did so also in this judgment, must take into account, unlike what happened before, that the objective of budgetary balance is not a discretionary and political choice, but a fixed choice and a constitutional principle. This leads me to think that, since the Constitutional Court, a few months ago, had made a judgment on the so-called Robin tax that was only valid for the future, taking into account the new Article 81 of the Constitution, this time it did not deliberate in the same direction by making its judgment on pensions because it thought - in my view correctly - that it was possible to apply that sentence without violating the new Article 81 of the Constitution and, therefore, the principle of the budget. That is exactly what we have proposed in the report. [[Applause from the PD Group]] As far as the motions for resolutions are concerned, I am in favour of Amendment No 2, which is against the others. The reasons for the opposition have just been explained in my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u30	The 30-minute deadline for tabling amendments to the motion for a resolution accepted by the Government is now 18.34.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u33	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I begin by making a small impression. If we look at the beginning of the report prepared by President Renzi, we read: The Government intends to inform Parliament by means of this report. Mr President, the Government does not make a concession and, therefore, he does not intend to inform, but is obliged to inform Parliament. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] I now come to another small detail of this report, which partly motivates our opposition. I am referring to the fact that, according to the report, the levels of the net balance to be financed and the market use set out in the 2015 Stability Act remain firm. If we take the report of the Parliamentary Budget Office, we read that, again for 2015, the forecast of competence of the net balance to be financed in the budget law was 53 billion. And now I come to the key words of the report, according to which the effect on a net balance to be financed by Decree No 65 is quantified at 2,180 billion, which would therefore bring the net balance to be financed - it does not keep it equal, but increases it - to 55 billion. The figure is, therefore, higher than that established in the law of stability of 1,827 billion. What does that mean? Either that the report says one thing and the Budget Office says another or that it needs to be clarified. The Deputy Minister rightly said that debt must be done under existing legislation. But under existing legislation, as the Parliamentary Budget Office says, there is no such money and, therefore, the net balance to be financed should be increased. Another thing that creates some problems precisely on the uncertainty of the covers is that already in the approval of the DEF we were talking about this treasure, which is then deficit, which is used for the coverage in part of Decree No 65. All the people we audited, both the Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget, the Court of Auditors and ISTAT, said that 1.6 billion was a very uncertain figure, because it was based on a quantification of oil (it was then 57 dollars per barrel, while today we are 64 dollars per barrel), on the stability of the exchange rates between euro and dollar (at that stage they were 1.7 and today they are 1.27) and on a level of spread, on which we have to pay interest, calculated at 108, while today it is 153. Therefore, that margin is very weak and thinking of using it to cover a provision goes against our Constitution, since the same says that all laws must have coverage and recourse to debt is allowed only in order to consider the effects of the economic cycle and prior authorization of the Chambers. It can be said that the economy is starting again, that the economy is going. Renzi tells us every day. We're the owls. However - as happens - even today a figure from ISTAT says that, compared with last year, we have a fall in employees in industry by 2.8%. So where are you going? The economy starts again when recruitment increases. And the assumptions they speak of are not true, but they are simply changes in existing contracts: they are not new assumptions, that is, new workers and, therefore, more production. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] If we also consider the construction world's employees, we even fall by 5.3 percent: this is 5.3 percent of people who no longer have jobs. Moreover, I was very perplexed when Minister Padoan said that one cannot criticize the fact that public debt increases, because today it is 2,200 billion. I remind everyone that, in 2011, it was 1,907 billion and in 2013, with the Letta Government, it was 2,068 billion. So, Renzi management has produced over 130 billion more debt, which means more interests that end up in our account, what we have to pay. And then I would like to make an inscription on Decree-Law No. 65 of 2015, just to remember some data. The government has taken away 24 billion gross from the citizens and has returned 2.8 billion gross: this means that 21 billion has been held, that is, the citizens have paid 21 billion. Now the Government, which rightly makes observations to the Constitutional Court's ruling, makes at least one gesture compared to these 2,8 billion. If a citizen does not pay taxes, the government arrives and tells him to pay the penalties and interest. Now, out of the 2,8 billion that the government took, but it didn't have to take, you pay at least the interest. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with a consideration which is fundamental to us. If a citizen has a duty and must respect it, it is the Government first to set a good example by respecting the laws. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bulgarelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u36	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I should like to start by referring to some of the issues on which Mr Morando has now spoken and which are well-presented in the report. The reasoning is due to the fact that - it is said - the burdens associated with the application of the Court's judgment would be around 17.7 billion in 2015 and this would lead to the net weakening trend in relation to GDP in the current year from the 2.5% forecast to 3.6 percent. The essence of the case is, therefore, that debt would worsen, so the improvement agreed at European level would not be achieved and, consequently, Italy would not be able to benefit from the reform clause required in DEF 2016. First of all - this is the first question, which we also put in the motion for a resolution - this kind of reasoning once again tells us that, beyond all the fine words we have heard this year and which were also part of the European Semester programme, namely that we would go to Europe to tear, to have flexibility and to bring Europe back not only to the logic of austerity, the truth is another: we accept the European framework, without taking into account any further elements or other possible alternatives. Meanwhile, the existence of an excessive deficit on the part of Italy should be assessed by the European Union - this is the issue we have always asked - taking into account the exceptional nature, the temporary nature and the extent of the exceeding of the limit, as, among other things, the Parliamentary Budget Office itself highlighted in its report, all the more so if the disbursement was due. The second question is that other measures could have been taken, and the other one that we have highlighted is that if the payment were to take place in six annual instalments from 2015 onwards, costs would mean that the deficit in relation to GDP would rise in the current year, but in 2016 the deficit would rise from 1.4 to 1.3% only for the cash. Therefore, for 2015 the deficit-GDP ratio would in fact be less than 3%, exceeding this limit only for the competence budget, which is, among other things, a step-by-step approach in the accounting of European states. We say that, even if only taking into account those parameters, we could actually do a different operation. By the way, there have been other cases and precedents. I am thinking of the question of the installment which took place in a similar case, in the case of judgment No 314 of 1985 of the Advisory Council, and also of pensions. Therefore, once again, the Renzi Government does not at all take the opportunity to open a dispute with the European Union, aimed at reviewing austerity policy and the very criteria of the European treaties on fiscal policy. In fact, we have always witnessed the propaganda that we would have succeeded in bringing home and tearing Europe apart from a shift in the backbones that, to date, have marked European policy. On the contrary, we do the opposite operation, that is once again we accept everything supinely. I would like to remind you here that the European Union is in no way capable of immigration policies, but rather does the opposite. It is now the news that Hungary would have decided to even erect a wall. And we with this Europe not only do we not try to negotiate and discuss, but we even do a reverse operation, against the interests of our citizens and pensioners. On the other hand, it's pointless to go around. I'm telling you, Mr. President. Has there ever been such a fire of barrier against the Council? Here, we have seen an incredible debate that, in fact, has accused the decision of the Constitutional Court, with a clear attempt - evidently to put in place to prevent another ruling of the Court - of the actual delegitimation of the Constitutional Court before the public. And that will have consequences. Among other things, the Government's own introductory report to the decree-law, in some way and once again, refers to this kind of barrier fire and at the same time, in fact, continues to justify the decisions of Monti in 2011, when it is known to all that, in reality, in 2011 it was not inevitable to block pensions. There were alternatives. It is enough to look at public expenditure data between 2011 and 2013 to see that it has increased both in relation to GDP (by 1.8%) and in nominal terms. Therefore, we could have intervened on other items of expenditure, while we made that choice which did not at all settle our accounts, nor did it hold back public expenditure. The other question that I put to everyone's attention is that I find some statements by Minister Padoan astonishing, who, returning to the case of the Constitutional Court, even argued that the Court should have taken into account the impact of the judgment (and I remember that the Consulta, for tomorrow, left room for the legislator for modulation). Once again, this is a sign of what is being called into question and the delegitimacy of the Constitutional Court is being thoroughly tried. I was used to hearing, from a political point of view, that judgments apply. Of course they can be discussed, but they certainly apply. Apparently, air has also changed in relation to the issue of constitutional legality. Moreover, when a law disappears because the Constitutional Court has declared it illegal, it is not the Court that determines its consequences, but of course the legal regime of its decisions. So what was the government supposed to do? In the meantime, account should be taken of the rights of pensioners enshrined in the Constitutional Court. It is incredible that this has not been taken into account at all, by implementing measures which - in my view - do not intervene on what is the very root of the Constitutional Court's ruling. Therefore, once again, not only illegal abuse is perpetuated, but also a very serious issue from the constitutional point of view. In fact, what is said in the report? It is said that the decisions of constitutional illegitimacy and, therefore, the opinion of the Constitutional Court must also be subject to the accounts and demands of Europe and international finance. Indeed, it insists on true or presumed violations of rights and on the need for a new balance between rights and duties and balances which, however, make the economic question and the economic calculation of the matter of balance the only criterion for assessing the eligibility of a right. And, as far as we are concerned, this is absolutely not acceptable. I would like to remind Deputy Minister Morando, who was one of the authors, that the principle of budgetary balance has been incorporated into the Constitution. Italy is the only European country to have done so, because I do not think there are any more. From this principle all fundamental issues of rights are being brought down today. In this case it was only necessary to apply and respond to rights that were violated. Once again, a different choice has been made. That is why we shall be voting in favour of our motion for a resolution and against the motion for a resolution tabled by the majority.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u39	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to say straight away that we shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution approving Parliament's report on the development of public accounts, in view of the effects of the frequently cited judgment of the Council. However, we cannot fail to note that the constraints of public finance have imposed the transposition of the sentence, obviously starting from the bottom and reaching a condition that excludes from the benefits those holders of medium and medium-low pensions that contribute to compose a middle class further impoverished in the season we live. Let us not forget that these are often those groups of pensioners who have benefits particularly far from their last pay, which was considered in the 1969 reform to the extent that they can be adjusted not only to inflation, but also to developments and increases in contracts. Of course, the time has run out in which the Republic was concerned about the possibility of a drastic change in the standard of living, from the moment of active life to that of quiescence. We must not forget the fundamental problem, however, even before it is formal, of protecting also the conditions of the middle class, the perception of social security benefits, and especially at a time when unprecedented hypotheses are proposed in national life and in that of any Western country; hypotheses that would question benefits already paid - and, I would add, nevertheless close to being paid - through a recalculation based on the general application of the contributory method. The Consulta has taken on a determination that has posed significant problems for the immediate impact on public finance, but also decisions consistent with previous case-law. Over time, that is, it has been consistent and constant and, therefore, also for the future it has taken predictable decisions, which tell us that it is possible to assume determinations that intervene on the benefits already paid or close to being paid, but only to the extent that they are determined by extraordinary reasons of public finance, therefore by characteristics of absolute temporaryity, by logics of reasonable progressiveness, and not by interventions of a structural nature, even of recalculation of benefits already paid, according to the method to which they are distributed. The latter was shockingly criminalized as the one that benefited the generations who would have run away with the coffin, believing that it was the only method of distribution, forgetting that instead the current method of contributory calculation is also so. This means that it is based on intergenerational solidarity and that for it, for that of today as for that of yesterday, sustainability is determined by the developments of the labour market and demography, and not by the relationship between contribution and performance. Taxes and contributions competed yesterday, compete today and will compete tomorrow to maintain the social security system sustainable. [[Applause from Senator Marino Luigi.]] Let us never forget that, if we use only the contributions paid as a reference, we will punish the mothers who have had, have and rightly will have figurative contributions; the sick who have and will have figurative contributions; the cassintegrates and the unemployed who have and will have figurative contributions and the newly hired, on the basis of the measures of support to the employment that have zeroed the contribution, placing it at the expense of the budget of the State for a three-year period. So, what recalculation on a contributory basis are we talking about here? At a time when we are witnessing - fortunately - a correct and consistent production of case law by the High Court, we already know that it would never accept discussions on the recalculation of the benefits already paid or - I insist - those provided, i.e. involving people who would not be given the time to actively recover a sudden worsening of their income condition. For these people, the Constitutional Court would never accept Jacobin exercises - and I stress this adjective - that only a Jacobin culture can allow us to imagine and foresee a kind of Nuremberg pensions, criminalizing entire generations, who have had in their lived balances that cannot be structurally re-discussed. On the other hand, we know that the Court allows for limited levies of solidarity, transitional measures and, therefore, intergenerational solidarity. However, it does not allow - rightly and fortunately - the floor on which this nation must resume to grow to be called into question, because insecurity does not make growth, but rather feeds the rapture of consumption and social and economic dynamism. We must give certainty: this is the task of the Government. And I wanted to say all this also self-critically because, having participated in the coalition that voted on that measure, I have no title today, until the end, to criticize a decision voted by the most, for political assessments of general interest. However, we are now fully aware of this, and it would indeed be guilty to repeat mistakes already made, in even more socially unsustainable forms, and, from the point of view of the principles of our Charter, absolutely unsustainable. That is why we voted in favour of the Government's report. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) ePD and Senator Marino Luigi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u42	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, today this branch of Parliament is called upon to vote on the report on the updating of public accounts, presented by the Government following the decision of the Constitutional Court No 70 of 2015. The above judgment states that the rule providing for the automatic equalisation for the years 2012 and 2013 is unconstitutional for pensions exceeding more than three times the minimum INPS treatment. This is a rule declared by the Constitutional Court illegitimate and detrimental to the fundamental rights related to the social security relationship, the principle of solidarity, adequacy, proportionality and substantial equality. That task, according to the then President of the Council, Mario Monti, was a necessary operation to fall within the Maastricht parameters and give a strong signal to the European Union about the Italian will to secure public finances. The way, however, is perplexed. Putting people's social security savings on their own is a very questionable operation. To do so in a wrong and damaging way with the rights enshrined in the Constitution makes this operation, assessed after years, a disaster on all fronts. The decision of the Constitutional Court is the last, in order of time, of the horrors of that Government precisely in the matter of social security. Even today we are discussing the disasters caused by the Fornero reform, precisely the reform that created the social emergency of the exodus and that this Parliament and this Government do not yet want to resolve definitively. Today, as in the past, the government once again decides to touch citizens' rights and not privileges and waste. It has been decided to dump on the weakest, on those who live on retirement, work and sacrifice, the excesses and errors of a sick system. It was decided to make the still healthy part of Italy pay the weight of a financial and economic crisis caused and wanted by the strong powers of banks and Europe. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Tens of billions have been allocated for the rescue of credit institutions and today this Government wants to make believe that you can not find the resources to return what is unconstitutionally collected to millions of Italians. The Monti Government has unduly taken away from millions of pensioners about 17.6 billion euros and, with the mechanism of return to bands proposed by this Government, will proceed to a mockery refund of the sums. The danger of a new judgment being repeated cannot therefore be prevented. The government's task was to restore legality, not to mystify a sentence. The presentation of this decree to the press is also semantically stride - I say it in a good manner. The expression "Bonus Poletti" is offensive to pensioners. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Disbursement is not a bonus! It is not dictated by the Government's will to guarantee more resources for pensioners, but it is the only partial return of what is taken away from a rule that the Constitutional Court has declared illegitimate. Moreover, in the report sent to the Houses by the Presidency, the intention to frame the refund not as a structural but as a one-off refund is even leaked; therefore, the two years taken into account in the judgment will be definitively lost for the purposes of calculating the pension base. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government, pensioners do not want alms, and I heard this with my own ears, on the street, talking to people: they want what has been taken from them, not part of the resources wrongly taken away, but all the resources. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Moreover, the Government is not taking into account a previous judgment of the Constitutional Court, n. 316 of 2010, which declares legitimate the suspension of the equalization only for pensions that exceed eight times the minimum INPS treatment. All this said, according to the 5 Star Movement, the solution proposed by the Government is unacceptable. The 5 Star Movement, in compliance with the judgments of the Constitutional Court, in the resolution presented, proposes to this Assembly the immediate return of what is unduly withheld to the beneficiaries of pension treatment between three and four times the minimum treatment; the full return of the due to the beneficiaries of pension treatment between four and eight times the minimum treatment, even by delaying it in five years. The intervention that we are proposing has a cost of EUR 13 billion. We therefore call for the recovery of the 11 billion needed to restore the harmed right, by adopting measures to revise and reduce public expenditure following the following priorities: immediate interventions to strengthen centralized purchases of goods and services by the public administration, in order to achieve savings; immediate measures to spend reviews for rationalization and the fight against duplication of functions and waste in the performance of public functions; use of possible margins of improvement of net debt, or of any greater tax revenue at the refreshment of the rights recognized by the Constitutional Court judgment No 70. This Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, has no more excuses. It will immediately restore pensioners or it will be like declaring to Italians that the policy that this Government and this majority want to pursue is not the policy that takes care of citizens and protects the rights enshrined in the Constitution, but it is the policy that protects waste, the corrupt, the illegality of tenders. The events involving the parties of the majority in these days are the clear testimony: Mafia Capitale, the ban of the CARA of Mineo, the use of the assets of the Food Bank even to make sale of the votes, and it is a few hours ago the news of 44 investigated between Rai, Mediaset and La7 for corruption. Politicians, undersecretaries investigated, corrupt officials who should have thought of citizens and not their own interests. If you really want to show a change of direction towards legality and protect citizens' rights, prove it by voting for the total compensation of the amounts due to pensioners. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u45	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it should first be noted that the report under discussion is a due act of the Government towards Parliament. Due report, as provided for in paragraph 6 of Article 10-a of the Law of Accounting and Finance. The same accounting law clarifies that the effects of the decisions of the Consulta must be accounted for in the year in which the judgment is issued, of course for the years completed. The government's efforts in producing this document in Parliament have not been enormous, because an important issue such as equal treatment of pensions is exhausted in two pages. The presentation of the report is made after the Government issued and presented to the Chamber the Decree-Law of 21 May 2015, n. 65, in which the issue of pensions raised by the decision of the Consulta is addressed, as well as other interventions related to the issue of pensions and work. So this report is only an update - even a partial one - to the general framework of public finance, mainly relating to compliance with European standards. It is clear that full compliance with judgment No 70, which concerns the mechanism for indexing pensions, would have resulted in higher amounts than those provided for in Decree No 65 and consequently the failure to comply with the European parameters, both in the deficit-GDP ratio and in the debt-GDP ratio. The full reactivation of indexation would have determined, in financial terms and net of tax effects, quantifiable charges in approximately 17,6 billion euros for the year 2015 and about 4,3 billion euros in 2016, down to about 4,1 billion euros in 2019. Public finance balances would have reached values incompatible with the pursuit of the public finance objectives required by accession to economic and monetary union. Net debt in 2015 would have risen from 2.5% to 3.6%, while net debt trend for 2016 would have reached 1.7%, instead of 1.4% programmed in the DEF. An excessive deficit procedure against Italy would in all likelihood have been opened. The Government then decided to proceed in a path that does not foresee the implementation of the judgment, but the rewriting of the rule concerned by the censure of the judgment. In this way, the financial burdens resulting from the full application of the Constitutional Court ruling are very limited, but the impact of equalization is certainly almost nullified and limited only to the pension bracket, which ranges from three to six times the minimum. Basically, around 2,180 billion are returned in total and then just over 400 million from 2016. In addition, the "drag" effect is delimited, as a result of the fact that the revaluation for the years after 2012-2013 would have been applied to a higher base. But in this way even the equalization mechanism that would start at the end of the effects of the norm censored by the Consulta, that it is well to remember, when it was approved it concerned only the years 2012 and 2013. The Renzi Government unfortunately continues a path initiated by the Monti Presidency, which always asks for sacrifices to the same subjects. Infausto was also our vote on Salva Italia: it was a trap that measure, as have been traps governments that have attested themselves on the same political line. The only justification is that at that time it was asked for a sacrifice to the Italians for a period limited to two years. Sacrifice that the successive governments have, on the contrary, continued to ask, with an absurd tax and that has contributed in this matter remarkable to depress the economic growth in our country. The growth of public debt continues to show a steadily rising trend and the last given the lead to the historical record of 2,194 billion euros. All that Renzi has granted so far to the "people" has been done by creating new public debt, that is, by loading the children and grandchildren of the momentary beneficiaries of some economic measure of new responsibility for the expenditure on interest on public debt, which they will have to face in the coming years. Unfortunately, at the end of the Renzi Government's experience, even its current censors will realize that it will have left the country a public debt to its historical record in real terms. It seems clear to us that the role of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance is no longer merely the exercise of political will, if it is true that from there passes both the management of the debt, and in general that of the public accounts. There are therefore many effects on public finance balances. Growth of expenditure in both 2015 - when for the purposes of the structural balance the part of the reimbursements for previous years is charged as one-off - that in 2016 and subsequent years, but, above all, as said, increase of the stock of the public debt, because the previous repayment paid as one-off and that which will be due to the regime will be done in debt, i.e. issuing new government bonds, even if only for the part identified by the Government between the trend expenditure and that in implementation of the judgment n. 70 of 2015. It should be noted that the report is totally absent on this point. At what level of debt will be achieved in real terms and what debt-to-GDP ratio is not known: these are issues ignored by the Government. It is not difficult, however, to predict that we will come to a percentage that will deny the forecasts of the recent Document of economy and finance. In this way the Government thinks that the sentence can for the moment be preserved - without prejudice of course to the further appeals in this matter - and that it should also protect the spirit of saving Italy, which we can thus summarize: so much money is taken from the big numbers. It is precisely from Salva Italia that the dangerous tax slope of the Monti Government began, followed by the Letta and the current Governments, which led to the increase of taxes everywhere and to triple taxes on the house. The two certainties of the Italians, the house and the pension, are the well to which the Renzi Government prefers to draw. We note profound contradictions in the economic policies of the Renzi Government. On the one hand, you reward with 80 euros those who have a working income below 1,500 euros net per month, but you ignore pensioners to the minimum. On the other hand, it penalizes those who have a pension of 1,500 euros gross per month, limiting its increase in purchasing power. In our view, if we overcome the risk of opening a European procedure for excessive deficits on the European side, then the decision of the Constitutional Court will not be exceeded. The Consulta considered that with the provisions censored the fundamental rights related to the social security relationship, based on the proportionality and adequacy of the treatment of quiescence, understood as deferred pay. The permanent suspension of the equalization mechanism, censored by the Court and reproposed by the government's regulatory changes, clashes with the principles of reasonableness and proportionality. For pensions exceeding 1,506 euros gross, which are 1,280 euros net, the mechanism imagined by the Government provides a one-off return of 70 euros and 18,8 euros from 2016. The main purpose of protection inherent in the mechanism of equalization, which must provide for a regular defence of the power to acquire pensions, continues to be completely cracked. A pensioner who lives alone, for rent, with 1,280 euros net per month, that will become 1,298 from 2016, does not see safeguarded his purchasing power: he will continue to live, unfortunately, miserably. But again, for example, those who have little more than four times the minimum pension - we are talking about 2,250 euros gross, that is, 1,800 euros net per month - will lose monthly due to the lack of indexing 120 euros. We believe that the measure is unfair and that this report is insufficient, because it does not analyse all the variables related to the problem of equalization of pensions. The financial cover for the levels of equalization that the Government has proposed - found by updating the levels of expenditure to current legislation - seems to us all to be demonstrated. To the eye it would look like an accounting artifice, but luckily every call to the fantastic darling has disappeared. Above all, the intervention that reduces the level of equalization to 45 percent of what it would have to do to reintegrate the purchasing power that is gradually lost, towards all those medium-low pensions that exceed three times the minimum and are within six times. These can't be said to be golden pensions! They are also left out of the intervention, which concerns 4.4 million pensioners, at least another 700,000 pensioners, whose level of pensions stops forever because of the lack of equalization. Perhaps a revised calculation of the contributions paid by all pensioners will have to be made again, because by now it seems to us that, by means of blockages and lack of equality, the pensions of Italians are shrinking too much. For these reasons we shall vote against this dark one and - let me say - we shall be voting in favour of the resolution of Forza Italia, which provides for full compliance with the judgment of the Council, so that all that is given to pensioners, including by providing instalments of the amount due or by providing for a tax credit to compensate for what is owed by the State, but above all in full respect - and this is what matters most - of the Italian pensioners. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u48	D'ANNA (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PpI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, I have listened to the speeches made by my previous colleagues and I have made a rather varied impression, in the sense that there are those who believe that the Government should follow the Court's judgment, imagining that this does not result in a further burden on the state's finances. Now, if, on the one hand, we are demagogically posing that citizens, and therefore voters, should be grateful to those who propose that all malt be returned, on the other hand, we should explain how this is compatible with the objectives of reducing expenditure, given that the first item of expenditure in the state budget is represented, if I am not mistaken, by more than EUR 300 billion in pensions. In the years when there was happy growth at the expense of the leverage of public spending, we have granted millions of states, in the times of fat cows, to enjoy pay and non-contributory pensions. Even today, it is estimated that most Italian pensioners receive 60% more than they paid to the pension fund, i.e. to social security institutions. If that is the truth, I would like to know from my previous colleagues that they have invoked the pedissequa application of the Constitutional Court rule as to how to be so prodigal, so patronized in calling on the government to give everything to everyone, regardless of any other consideration, and as soon as the government is asked to cut the expenditure, waiting that the pension is the first item of expenditure and absorbs 45% of the entire revenue of the State. Evidently one should then tell the government to do what it can do, but at least to do so with a feeling of equalization. And what is the feeling of equalization, Mr. Deputy Minister Morando? That of taking a part of what you do not give to the categories who have pensions of a certain size, to give it at least to the social pensioners. It is the famous social justice, this oxymoron, this non-existent concept that is the ethics of the tribe, because in fact it is nothing but an element of disturbance both of the market and of the state accounts. But I want to convert myself for a moment to statism and then I tell you to use an element of equalization: justified the fact that a part of what you do not give to those who have pensions eight to ten times the social pensions you give to others, that is to say to the miserable ones, to the last. You come from a socialist school and I want to quote you Nenni, just so you don't deny me, who said that socialism is to carry on all those born back. If this is, and if you cannot give everything to everyone for the reasons of public finance that I have just recognized, it will be good for you to return to someone at least a part of what you do not give to those gentlemen who then feed in public the fairy tale that in order to restore the accounts you have to close the State because there are 320 more senators, because our pensions are higher than those that others perceive, because in fact the cuccagna in Italy has lasted for forty years and regards 20 million pensioners who perceive more than they have given to the Erario. It is an uncomfortable truth, that does not produce votes, that arouses antipathy, but it is the truth that must be faced if we want to govern this country and bring back the accounts that hinder our economic recovery to the limits and numbers allowed and desired. I do not know which is the best of the motions for resolutions, but I am inclined to vote on what the Government is proposing because I believe it is sticking to the concrete realism of the numbers and the safeguarding of the levels of expenditure that we all invoke here. But if you want to give a part of what you do not give to those who already have pensions eight, nine or ten times more than social pensions, if you want to give 100 euros to social pensioners, you will really do not only an act of social justice, but an act to make people who are at the limits of poverty and poverty survive. [[Applause from Senator Albertini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u51	SANTINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government's report which we are called upon to vote illustrates in a very appropriate and clear manner the effects of the Constitutional Court's ruling on the public accounts, as the rapporteur has explained in detail, from the 2012-2013 block of pension indexing, and equally clearly illustrates the type of intervention that the Government has taken in relation to this judgment in order to fulfil its obligations in relation to both arrears and increases after 2015, according to criteria of adequacy, proportionality and solidarity. From this point of view, we share the report and above all, on the subject, we share the decisive point, namely when it states the compatibility between the application of the judgment and the holding of public accounts, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, and the conditions as regards our stay within the euro mechanism and Europe. From this compatibility - I would like to say this to the many colleagues who have asked for the application of the judgment on different quantitative parameters, total, partial or installmental - comes the amount of resources possible to put in place for the implementation of this judgment: from this comes the 2.8 billion allocated in compliance with those rules and compatibility. The question I would like to ask myself aloud, but also to the many colleagues who have spoken with arguments in the opposite direction, is: could this compatibility be avoided? Could a substantial amount of resources be allocated, as the report says, which would have had a decisive impact on the delicate balance of public finances and the deficit-GDP ratio, which would have passed, as the report tells us, from 2.5 to 3.6% in 2015? This balance and this relationship, as we all know, is the indispensable condition not only to respect Article 81 of the Constitution, but also to obtain and take advantage of the margins of flexibility that our Government has obtained in Europe in order to achieve, even in such a harsh crisis, policies of economic and labour growth, that is, GDP. The question is: could we do more and compromise these objectives that are so difficult to achieve but so necessary? I think not because, as I think we all know, but it is worth remembering, GDP growth is a condition for the social and economic holding of the country and specifically - it has been mentioned in so many interventions - it is also the condition for maintaining and safeguarding the social security system in two respects, which I would like to stress. Someone in some intervention spoke of disaster with reference to this government measure. I believe - I don't say it rhetorically - that the real disaster would be if this country in 2012 or in future years was not able to pay systematically every month the 270 billion per year of social security expenditure. This would destabilize the country in depth on the economic level, but first and foremost on the social level of the coexistence of relations. Secondly, I note that growth in GDP and labour is also a prerequisite for the value of pensions. Many have objected that these billions allocated are largely insufficient for the value of pensions and we have said why this is the quantity. However, I would like to point out - and I think everyone knows here too - that the value of the individual pensions that will be paid in our country from here on depends intrinsically on the amount of work and the amount of GDP. It is a mathematical index that re-evaluates pensions year by year with the contribution. If GDP does not rise, pensions fall for all workers and all citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We must bear this in mind, because without this we do not go far. From this point of view we think that on the quantitative level the resources allocated have allowed to maintain a difficult balance between the respect of the judgment in its fundamental points and the equally fundamental respect of a path of fiscal consolidation and growth of the country that we consider fundamental. In this regard, I would stress that the recipe that some have highlighted, according to which the intervention could be financed by cutting public expenditure, is an evocative hypothesis, but it is already a busy space. We know, for example, in 2015 on 2016 that we will have to cut about 10 billion public spending and spend reviews, precisely to maintain the consolidation and prevent the release of the safeguard clauses in January 2016, which would represent a step of shrimp for our economy and make us return to what we do not want, that is, to a halt of the growth and to the circumstance in which the occupation returns to being a mad variable. As far as the second and final consideration is concerned, the issue of the distribution of this quantity, which was the maximum available, as the report rightly says, I believe that it appears - and we also think here - to be absolutely appropriate from the point of view of the criteria which the Court has indicated. The Court tells us that progressivity in indexing has not been achieved; solidarity has been lacking. Let us see in concrete terms the figures, as the report by the Parliamentary Budget Office tells us, in concrete terms what the effects of this judgment are. I would also stress them in order to make it clear how we have tried to go within these criteria of progressiveness and solidarity. As you all know, there are about 15 million Italian pensioners; 10 million or more are under three times the minimum and are not affected by this affair; the ones touched are about 4.5 million. These, for about half of them, are within the parameter that ranges from three to four times the minimum, and these, as the report of the Parliamentary Budget Office says well, will have, even if they are half, 67%, that is, two thirds, of what is returned. There is, therefore, a strong focus on the lowest scales of this class of pensions. Then, between four and five times the minimum we have another bracket (about 7-8 percent) to which it will go about 25%, so it is a balanced ratio in relation to what is available. To the highest part, which amounts to about 15 percent, will go a fairly proportional share. Therefore, we have a strong attempt, well explained by the numbers (and also by the calculations, if they do them in the right way), to go in the sense of redistribution with a criterion that puts progressivity back in motion and that, as Vice Minister Morando recalled, engages to what was done in the following years restoring a proportional and solidarity mechanism towards the lower echelons with regard to indexing. For these reasons, both in quantity and in relation to the need to outline the country's path of recovery and recovery, and in relation to fair solidarity distribution, I believe that the intervention has the conditions to be evaluated, approved and in this sense the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the report to Parliament presented by the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u52	Two amendments relating to motion for a resolution No 2 were received within the prescribed time limit, which was accepted by the Government. I therefore call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on Amendments 2.1 and 2.2. Mr Guerrieri Paleopti, rapporteur. Mr President, I call for the withdrawal or I am against Amendments 2.1 and 2.2. Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u55	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, today in this House we have heard representatives of the Government, the rapporteur and the members of the majority talking about respect for European constraints. Above all, they have reminded us that even with the measure there will be no need for the use of debt, because it will certainly be within the framework of the DEF. Therefore, Amendment 2.2 simply commits the Government not to resort to debt, as stated in the Government's own report, where it states that the levels of the net balance to be financed remain firm. The Commission has already said that it will not resort to debt, so the amendment simply writes it out in black. Amendment 2.2 simply proposes this. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u58	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to say that the Forza Italia Group voted in favour of both amendments, which sum up what we have asked for in our motion for a resolution, which will probably not be voted on because the majority will approve the proposal. I am referring here to the fact that everything must be returned in compliance with the Constitutional Court's judgment, because we have heard so many times - in other cases - that the judgments apply, so we must do so also in this case. In addition, of course, Article 81 of the Constitution must also be respected (amendment 2.2 refers to this) and no further debt should be used. I would remind you that this month, as Senator Mandelli mentioned earlier, has reached 2,194 billion public debt, exactly 285 billion more than when the Berlusconi government was dropped to restore public finances. With this consolidation we have earned 285 billion more public debt, which corresponds to 16 or 17% of the increase in public debt. I therefore believe that this recovery is going in the opposite direction, both to the detriment of the State, as well as the pockets of citizens in general and in this case of pensioners.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u61	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u64	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, Amendment 2.1 states a very important principle. In the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of Conservatives, Italian Reformists there is a precise reference to that balance of public accounts that we are obliged to safeguard. In this amendment there is a strong reference to that constitutional change which was recently voted on by our Parliament, just a few months ago, precisely to prevent financial crises in some way from jeopardising the balance and balance of the budget that we strongly wanted to put in the Constitution. It is precisely for this reason that the reference to Article 81 is certainly precise, but it is absolutely absorbed by Article 81 itself. So that amendment is exactly in the direction that the League's amendment calls for, which is an amendment that has the support of all of us, but which repeats a concept that is already clearly included in that amendment to Article 81 so strongly wanted to secure the Italian public accounts and that we have convincedly voted. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u65	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.2 tabled by Senator Comaroli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on the SenatorsZanda, Schifani and Zeller to vote on the motion for a resolution No 2 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It is therefore foreclosed that motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12 1, presented by Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 3,
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u68	PADUA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been talk of the absolute availability and acceptance of the municipality and the citizenship of Ventimiglia, renamed the Lampedusa of the north. It is in Ventimiglia, in Milan, in Rome - that Rome shows its good side against the scandals of the capital mafia - and in many places of South Italy that comes out solidarity, that with the "S" capital, true characteristic of the Italian people, that distinguishes us from who, in the face of a situation in which one should act in concert, refuses to collaborate in the name of an alleged superiority. The Italy that welcomes is that of the people who are present in the places of the landings or in the points of arrival, each time with the determination of those who are aware that those who come from truly desperate situations need a support, whatever it is, it was also a glass of water, a blanket or a small plush to give to a child who waits and looks, because these people really have nothing left. Generosity, despite rash factions and statements of an instrumental nature, is an intrinsic characteristic of our people, of which we must be proud. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Ministers of the Interior in Luxembourg, some progress was made on the so-called quota system. The government is looking for a real solution, but it is not simple: it cannot be simplified, trivialized, a really complex issue, which requires a structured, integrated and long-term political response. Overcoming the rules laid down in the Dublin Treaty (which many of us have repeatedly stated, including in this House) is absolutely necessary and is certainly more complex than threatening the municipalities that welcome migrants to block their transfer of resources. On the other hand, it is quite clear that, despite the words spent on voluntaryness and the obligatory acceptance of quotas, we must wait for the decisions taken to draw the sums of a question which, so far, is incontrovertible that Italy and the South, first and foremost, have borne the greatest burdens. In fact, in Sicily - it is worth remembering - there is about 22 percent of migrants who have arrived in our country. If, therefore, the Government is to seek concrete solutions at the next European Council so that we can implement, with a true sense of responsibility and solidarity, that plan drawn up by the Commission to involve Europe as a whole in a process that has been delegated almost exclusively to our country, it cannot be forgotten that, behind those numbers, there are human beings. The reasoning for quotas cannot be without this emphasis, which many often try to forget or neglect. We talk about people, with their own stories and personal dramas, with dreams and legitimate hopes. When you make programs on reception and so-called partition at the table you cannot forget that, then, these policies are aimed at women, men and children: in short, at people. Propaganda on the skin of the unfortunate, as well as trying to oppose the North to the South on the subject of immigration, is pure exploitation. We, women and men of this extraordinary country that is Italy, in these days we have shown that we want to be those who believe, even today, that in comparison with other peoples there is an opportunity for human and social growth and that an exchange between different cultures can only enrich. We want to be the people who actively fight against the scourge of missing children: between 1974 and 2014, of the more than 15,000 children and minors vanished into thin air, most (13.489) are foreign children. As Marina Corradi wrote today on the pages of "Avvenire", our society pays the consequences of a real cultural impoverishment that starts from our hearts and consciences; hearts and consciences hardened by cries of alarm against an invasion of bearers of misfortunes and diseases that, in reality, for the most part, are only refugees fleeing with the right to asylum according to the international conventions to which Italy has joined "in the immediacy of the dark years of the last war" and of which today we seem to have no memory. If each of us strives to bring what can be positive within the great migrant question, starting from the language used, maybe a few steps forward we really do so, otherwise we will really close down as we ourselves, increasingly fearful and less generous. To get out of this impasse the first useful and positive move that each of us can make for free is to put ourselves at the service of those values of brotherhood and solidarity that broaden the horizon of our views and make us fully understand that indifference towards others is but a part of a process that impoverishes the mind and emptys hearts of energy and feeling. It is necessary that, in all this process, the Government is at the forefront, where the emergency is faced every day, especially in Sicily. There are - I have said it many times - even small municipalities, like Pozzallo, that risk dying from the economic and tourist point of view, because - let us listen well - they are not willing not to accept. In Pozzallo, you know, the only kindergarten was closed due to lack of funds. These funds have, however, been found - let us listen to this - to give honor and dumb the dead migrants. They shut down kindergarten, but the dead buried them, having respect for those dead, those people who couldn't make it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, no economic support has come to what, in my opinion, could be called the city of reception and peace and whose name should be promoted in Italy and abroad. This is a community devoted to tourism, which has invested so much in this respect: we cannot abandon it or leave it, because, in addition to the expenses that it has had to face without any support, it sees small, courageous entrepreneurs who are closing, because no one goes there anymore to take the holidays. That this becomes a positive brand then, so you say: "We go to beautiful cities where we welcome and help people to have confidence and courage." This is the paradox that has forced us so far to have a Europe in which goods, capital, services and citizens circulate freely, but only if they are European. I want to tell you one last thing: another immediate problem will arise in a few days' time, if those sorting centres for the identification of migrants that Europe requires of us become operational. Do you know which one of the cities were chosen? Once again, Pozzallo. We need insurance and also our commitment that charges and expenses do not yet fall on this city, which - like others - has been so hard tested. [[Senator Ciampollo's protests.]] MARTELLI (M5S). It would only be three minutes at your disposal! PADUA (PD). I understand that these are heavy words, but we must remember - and I would like to reiterate this - that Italy is a welcoming country, alive, not arid with feelings, that it does not resign itself to being an unconscious victim of its individualism: this is the virtuous model that Europe must really look at and copy, if it wants to respond to the dream of our fathers. This is the great opportunity that is offered to the European people to start finally building that political Europe which we dream and want and which will thus enhance the values of the European Union. [[liberté, égalité, fraternité. (Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u71	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, we are pleased to learn that the speeches at the end of the sitting last even twenty minutes, if they are from the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Ironic applause from Senator Filippi. Comments from the PD Group.]] Let's talk about palm oil...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u72	Senator Ciampollo, I believe you have the sensitivity to understand the value of that intervention and you have never been taken away from it, not even at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u73	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). He took it off this afternoon, so don't say that. [[Senator Adam's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u74	Let's talk palm oil.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u75	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). If you give me the video shot, I'd love to... if we'd stop playing with the button, thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If she wanted to start talking, maybe it would be better. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). All right, we'll take that into account, too, thank you. As I said, we are talking about palm oil: it is these days the controversy over the words of the French Environment Minister Ségolène Royal, who has invited us to stop consuming the nutella to save the planet. The accusation, as is well known, is that of the use of palm oil and the consequent negative effects on the environment. Immediately the understandable defense of the famous product was unleashed by all Italian public opinion, with a truly provincial and ignorant spirit. The truth is that very recent and authoritative scientific studies have shown that palm oil is actually a potentially dangerous product for the health of citizens and we note that it is contained in almost all cookies for children. In fact, according to what emerged in a research of the University of Bari, directed by Professor Francesco Giorgino, in collaboration with the universities of Pisa and Padua, palmitate, a fatty acid present in palm oil, would contain a killer protein at the level of human and animal pancreatic islands. In particular, the expression of this protein was measured in the pancreatic islands of rats fed a diet rich in fat and in those of overweight or obese human donors. The effects of a fat-rich diet have also been studied on pancreatic mouse cells and mouse insulinoma cells, in which the encoding gene for the protein p66Shc was "deleted," which could therefore no longer be produced. Simply put, with the intake of palm oil there is a serious risk of getting diabetes. By returning to the authoritative studies carried out on the subject one cannot fail to point out the importance of overcoming the conditionings of the multinational food companies, even when they are based in Italy. Health is not a good that can be the object of commodity or even become an instrument of nationalist support. It is essential to be serious and intellectually honest about the very serious damage that some food products are capable of causing to health. We must have the courage to take decisions that are also unpopular, perhaps finally applying the precautionary principle that is so much talked about in European legislation in this area. The rampant spread of diabetes cannot leave us indifferent, especially when science offers important indications that cannot see politics unwise. Obviously the reference is to the new politics, that of the 5 Star Movement, free from servility regarding the strong powers and the flattery of the dark world of large enterprises, so close to the Government of "Renzie and company." In this perspective is inserted the motion 1-00423 of the 5 Star Movement which, recalling the research of the University of Bari, aims to ban molten palm oil for food - and also energy - of which the immediate calendarization is requested. [[Ironic applause from the LN-Aut Group]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Long live Nutella!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u78	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, after listening to such high-profile speeches, it will seem like an amenity to bring to the attention of this House an argument that may seem trivial, but that is not at all. About twenty years ago, the Italian Government accepted a European project, called "Life Ursus" and, in dialogue with the Regions, asked them who would accept the introduction of bears, which - alas - in our country no longer existed for decades. The Trentino decides to adhere to this project and, therefore, is introduced a first ten bears and then another small quantity, but we know that the bear is a fairly prolific animal. The management, unfortunately, is not all thirty and cannot be attributed to the local authorities, because the direction and guidelines are the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment: I believe that Minister Galletti, in these days, has been quite solicited in this regard. In recent months, however, there has been a plurality of major attacks, with people who have been heavily marked: the most recent victim of an attack is still hospitalized and is said to be alive by miracle. Imagine in fact the size of a bear, weighing more than 200 kilograms, with a nail apparatus, that manages to dig the ground as if it were sand, what it can do in contact with human skin. Who has seen the man who has recently been attacked and how he has been reduced has been objectively impressed. So it happens that life habits are changing in Trentino: people who normally walked in the mountains, do not do it anymore, hikers no longer frequent certain areas, there are women who refuse to make certain routes in the areas where bears have been spotted and those who own a house in the mountains begin to abandon the habit of going there, especially if they have small children: we are changing habits of life. The mistake was probably made in due time. Biological data says a bear needs about 60 square kilometers. If we were to keep this benchmark still, today in Trentino, having exceeded 50 bears, we would probably have 30 bears more than the ones that the territory could accommodate. We must say, however, that we are not in an uncontaminated territory: there is no area of Trentino where there is no cabin, a casupola, a mountain hut or a refuge. By now the whole territory is anthropized, man is present everywhere and this presence of problematic bears in Trentino begins to worry. The invitation that I am making at this moment to the Government and Minister Galletti is that at least let us first of all secure an area corresponding to the entire Autonomous Province of Trento and then that we can at least take away the problematic animals. Some even talk about killing them, because when an animal is dangerous it is necessary to make a choice between the danger to man and the killing of the dangerous animal. These animals could then be killed or all problematic specimens taken. We would also like to add that it is necessary to return to numbers compatible with those that the territory today actually manages to contain, in a system of biodiversity, as alas the bear having no predators is an animal that will continue to increase its presence. We must think that we can continue to pick up individuals of the species in order to maintain numbers that do not prejudice the safety and health of those who have always worked and spent even playful moments in the woods, in areas that now, alas, the Trentinos begin not to attend anymore. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u79	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-467.ana.u80	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 18 June, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.02 p.m.
