ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr BERGER, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u8	Mr Lucherini (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out that I was unable to vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u9	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u10	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Conference of Leaders is still under way. The sitting will therefore be suspended until the end of the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 16.37 p.m. and resumed at 5.24 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u11	The Conference of Leaders approved changes and additions to the current timetable. With regard to the redefinition of the sessions, from tomorrow to Thursday 24 September, there will be single sessions with the following timetables: Thursday 17, 9.30 a.m. to 20 p.m., with suspension from 12.15 a.m. to 3 p.m., in conjunction with the mass of suffrage in memory of Senator Donato Bruno; Friday 18, 9.30 a.m. to 17 p.m.; Tuesday 22 and Thursday 24 a.m. to 9.30 a.m. to 20 p.m.; Wednesday 23, 9.30 a.m. and without closing hours. The Presidency will be able to set suspensions at the end of the morning in relation to the progress of the work. With regard to the topics covered by the timetable, the examination of the draft framework law on international missions will be continued tomorrow morning, where the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission has been received. Tomorrow the discussion of the constitutional bill for the revision of Part II of the Constitution will begin. The general discussion will be concluded at the single sitting on Wednesday 23 September. Amendments to the constitutional bill should be tabled no later than 9 a.m. on Wednesday 23 September. Finally, the timetable provides for the examination of the draft law on civil unions, where concluded by the competent Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u12	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted by majority - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration to the program of the Senate's proceedings for the months of July, August and September 2015 - Drawing of Constitutional Law n. 1429-B - Provisions for the overcoming of equal bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the reduction of the running costs of the institutions, the abolition of the CNEL and the revision of Title V of Part II of the Constitution (Approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u13	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted by a majority - in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current timetable. [[Thursday 17 September ant. h. 9.30-20 (*) - Following draft law n. 1917 - Framework law on international missions (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of constitutional law n. 1429-B - Revision of Part II of the Constitution (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) Friday 18 " ant. h. 9,30-17]] (*) The sitting of Thursday 17 September will be suspended from 12.15 p.m. to 3 p.m. For the other meetings of the timetable, the Presidency will be able to establish suspensions in relation to the progress of the work. [[Tuesday 22 September ant. h. 9,30-20 - Following general discussion draft constitutional law n. 1429-B - Revision of Part II of the Constitution (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) Wednesday 23 " ant. h. 9.30 Thursday 24 September ant. h. 9,30-20 - Following discussion draft constitutional law n. 1429-B - revision of Part II of the Constitution (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Drawing of law n. 14 and related - Discipline of de facto couples and civil unions (Ove concluded by the Commission)]] Amendments to Constitutional Act No 1429-B (Revision of Part II of the Constitution) should be tabled no later than 9 a.m. on Wednesday 23 September. The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 14 and related (Discipline of de facto couples and civil unions) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u16	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I had prepared two lines on changing the timetable. Honestly, however, I am considering whether to speak or not because, if I were to really express what I have inside, after having participated for two hours in a meeting at which you were present, I believe that terminology would not be appropriate to this House. If a common citizen had a chance to listen to you in there... Look, I really feel like crying. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You suck, you're a disgrace! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi, please use the appropriate terms in this House. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let him talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi, you have always distinguished yourself for a lordship you must not lose. CASTALDI (M5S). Dear President, I have lived two hours of meeting during which I realized that our task is to inform as much as possible, not only the citizens of the street, but also those who live in your party offices, telling them the truth and explaining the reason why you are here. To keep the caste you used all your intelligence and all your ability in there, which I have never seen used in these two and a half years to make a useful provision for the citizens! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It was a desire to turn the table in there, President, with the final grain of a senator who, after having dealt with such a delicate subject, asked her to fix the time of the sessions in a certain way because, if she were to arrive late in the morning, she would not catch the 200 euros of the sitting. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then you, Mr President, tell me that'squeeze' and'shame' are two excessive terms? Minister Boschi, who attended the meeting of the Conference of Leaders, told us three lies, one after the other, but he was not at "Dancerò" he was not on television enchanting the Italians: he was taking part in a meeting of the Conference of Heads of the Senate of the Republic! He said enormous falsehoods, and fortunately Senator Calderoli also intervened in this regard. You had already decided everything; everything was ready and she, President, favored this calendar, because it was Senator Zanda who had to say how things were supposed to go, at least I think. President, you have allowed a party, not even a majority, to ask for the convening of the Conference of Leaders and, as I said to you also during the meeting, I will feel authorized to ask you on behalf of the 5 Star Movement for the convening of a Conference of Leaders, because the same rights and duties that the Democratic Party has must also be recognized by the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Centinario]] That being said, and I'm going to the lines that I pointed out to be quiet, I'm really sick of you and I hope my children don't have people like you in the government! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The constitutional reform refers to the fourth paragraph of Article 72, which, as we all know, provides for the use of the normal examination and approval procedure. You've turned all this upside down. Having said that, I feel like proposing. Senator Zanda, how careful he was to put in parentheses the words "where concluded in the Commission" related to the bill on civil unions. SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame! CASTALDI (M5S). Then I want to give you an assist: if there is anyone here who still cares about the Constitution and the seriousness, I do not ask you to change the timetable, I just ask you to add the wording, with reference to the draft Constitutional Reform Act, where concluded by the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u19	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we have seen a kind of well-organised comedy since yesterday's meeting of today's group leaders - I call it a comedy, but unfortunately it could also end up in tragedy for the democratic system of this country - because at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, while the news was already coming that there would be a meeting of the group leaders - unbeknownst to you, Mr President - the President of the Commission has given a reading of the list of the admissibility of certain amendments and of the amendmentability, therefore, of the well-known Article 2, but also of Article 1, when it was already planned and organized in detail, in order to find you, President, before the fact made, also on the choice and decisions about the inadmissibility, and before the umpteenth forcing to arrive in this Chamber. There was nothing to do with the amendments or the political agreement or not, so much so that today in the Commission, after it was announced both by Senator Calderoli of the League and by all of us the withdrawal of most of the amendments - in this particular case, we certainly did not present many of them, however, most strictly on the subject, as is our custom - the demonstration that the amendments at the end were a pretext and that in fact everything had been organized, as you know perfectly well, at the meeting of the group leaders, so not only the majority and the chairman of the Democratic Party Group have asked, despite the withdrawal of the amendments, to move forward and to schedule the measure for tomorrow, but the President of the Commission himself has come to tell us that there were no conditions for discussion in the Commission. The president of the 5 Star Movement has done well to remember that the Constitution, in Article 138, says clearly - as has been reiterated in all the hearings and as all the constitutionalists who want to question - that of course cannot - I say of course! - follow a different procedure from the ordinary procedure for constitutional reform and for all constitutional revision laws. The ordinary procedure, Mr President, in this House - as long as we are left, but now it is only an appearance - means that there is an iter and that there is a passage in the Commission. We have spent time asking for much more urgent measures to be scheduled, such as those on civil unions, which have always been told that it would go to the House where it was concluded in the Commission, when they were worthy to say at least that, but of course it is not a priority. With regard to the income of citizenship and the income of dignity, you, Mr President, have also written to the President of the Commission work. That is where the Committee of the Regions was made, but it was not intended here, even in the face of the urgency represented yesterday by Caritas, who asked us to do something for people who have nothing! But you don't care about that! [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]] There, the procedure must not be extraordinary: absolutely not! You have to go slowly, slowly, slowly! So, maybe, in the meantime, the number of people who don't even have to eat decreases. This is the level of cynicism you've reached. No, you don't! Constitutional reform must absolutely be forced, forced to continue. It is from the beginning, from the first reading, from the first passage to the Senate, that all you do is force the procedures and regulations. We have not forgotten what happened last year and the constant forcings that have been imposed on this House. Once again you choose the road of forcing. You choose the path of imposition. You wanted to subtract the text from the Commission for a very simple reason: you did not have the numbers in the Commission. That's why. It has nothing to do with the amendments or the timing. It is only the issue of numbers, because - I am addressing the Government - you hope to gather and put together the votes in this House, without any kind of attention to what we are doing (and I use this term on purpose, to pick up, because you ask for the votes on both sides, in the various scattered movements). My judgment on the reform is clear, and we have fought for it. But beware that, in the passage to the House, it has been worsened and now it has become an unformed mess, which was at least necessary to try to restore a form and rationality, for the good of this country and for the good of the democratic system. Instead, broken the discussion within the Democratic Party, when yesterday the table was interrupted, the decision to force was taken. That is why I maintain that everything had been planned. Mr President, we have found the vestals of Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure and the strict application of the Rules of Procedure. We have a lot of rule vestals. Too bad that, already in the first step, those rules have always been trampled on to speed up, to force and also to prevent this Senate from being able to express itself freely. Mr President, at last there is a great desire to work, on Thursdays and Fridays, obviously with the cleverness of holding a single sitting, so that those who are not interested in the general debate on Friday can return home! [[Applause from Senator Mangili.]] So I hope that all of you will participate, since there is a need for a wider and more authoritative place to find the agreement and to convince each other: because, as President Finocchiaro said, a higher place was needed. I hope that in this taller place, both in tomorrow afternoon's sitting and in Friday's sitting, all the senators will be present and not that, by using the escamotage of the single sitting, they will all return to their districts and territories. I say this for one last desperate attempt to give dignity to this debate. Given that there is this desire to be here to discuss and considering that we also have Fridays available, I believe that tomorrow, instead of constitutional reform, which can be safely included in the calendar of next week with the formula that is always used here, i.e. when the examination is concluded in the Commission, the provision on civil unions can be inserted, since we consider them to be more urgent, (I hear that perhaps it is mature enough because there has been a long time in the Commission) and the legislative proposals which concern, since the Committee has already been made for a few days, the guaranteed minimum income and the income of citizenship. Once again I appeal to you, Mr President. In this delicate passage, I ask you formally and for our Constitution - I think it is serious that when you enter Parliament you do not swear on the Constitution, because not swearing you have a certain ease in violating it - that this time, given the sacrosanct respect for the rules that someone has invoked in the interpretation of Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, if the House does not accept our proposals to change the timetable and instead proceed with the examination of the constitutional reform, our Rules of Procedure are scrupulously respected. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u22	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it is with dismay and concern - I repeat, with dismay and concern - that we have listened to President Zanda's proposal at the Conference of the Leaders for the immediate timetable for constitutional reforms in this House. We are concerned, Mr President, because, in the end, in the Commission, always respecting the work of President Finocchiaro, I believe that the conditions for further work on constitutional reforms had been created. After all, in this debate, as I said at the Conference of Leaders, there is a stone party, which is the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, that is the possibility or not to amend also Article 2 of the draft reform law, which corresponds to Article 57 of the Constitution. On this subject, which is unsolved in the Commission and on which we are waiting for what will be its decision in this House once the amendments have been taken, in the Commission President Finocchiaro, with great institutional loyalty, because Rule 104 of the Senate Rules of Procedure, speaking of amendments directly linked to the changes that have occurred in the other House, has some ambiguity, said that the principle of contradictive nemine could be introduced which, beyond technicalism, simply means: I give the policy to decide whether Article 2 can be amended or not. Well, the policy that was made responsible by President Finocchiaro's report of this possibility has escaped; and when I speak of politics, I speak of the majority. That is precisely why, once we have verified that the majority did not mean, even in that case, even if they had the possibility, to say a clear word about the desire, the desire to find a common path of sharing a constitutional reform, we felt with suffering this afternoon in the 1st Commission to withdraw the amendments, even having no certainty of the possibility of amending Article 2. After the withdrawal of the amendments, we asked for the possibility of voting on the restricted Committee, so that this would be the place where the amendments to the constitutional reform could be discussed (of course the amendments remaining). But that was not possible either. We imagined that, precisely for this demonstration of willingness to participate and share, the answer, since it had been negative on the principle of the contradictive nemine, could be positive on the possibility of continuing a path freed from the bulk of the amendments. No, the answer was: let us go to the group leaders and ask for calenderization in this House. President, that is why I say to you that with dismay and concern we are dealing with this path of constitutional reform. The reason why it was not possible to activate the contradictive nemine principle is of a formal but substantial nature. It is of a formal nature because theoretically - and President Finocchiaro also repeated this - there were no amendments shared by all the Leaders who formally demonstrated that there was that possibility, but there was neither the seat nor the political flexibility of a representation of an amendment that was shared. There has never been a willingness to share a path of constitutional reform. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] With dismay and concern, I will then, together with my Group and the Senators of Forza Italia, start a path that we do not know what a result it can have. It has been said, not in a clear way, that, for example, Article 55 of the Constitution, namely Article 1 of the Constitutional Bill, has been greatly aggravated in the House. It has also been said that, perhaps, that worsening and that derubrication - if we want to call it so with a neologism - occurred in the House with respect to the nature of the Senate and its functions perhaps depended on the poor consideration that the Chamber of Deputies had for the source of legitimacy of the nomination of the senators themselves. Someone said that they could be interpreted as regional advisors who were also senators after work. The two problems are strongly related to each other and the desire and will of both the majority and, of course, the opposition is to bring the text of Article 55 back to the text expressed by the Senate at first reading. I don't know what's gonna wait for us. You, Mr President, have a heavy task because I do not know whether you - I use a bad term - will be able to take refuge in the principle you mentioned earlier and which gives policy the opportunity to decide. You will probably have to decide responsibly and indisputably what to do about the emendability of Article 2, but it is the political problem on which the whole process of constitutional reform runs. Even the amendments - many of which will arrive by 9 a.m. next Wednesday next week - will not solve the problem because they will be put there exactly for the same reason that they were submitted to the Commission, where we imagined and hoped that that problem could be solved. I don't know what's coming. I hope that there will be a rethinking of the majority. I hope that there will be a desire to share a reform path. I hope that the majority will want to reach a referendum that, more than once, the Premier said should be celebrated in autumn 2016. I hope that the referendum will not lead to what has already happened and that everything will be brought back to zero. When the majority of political forces, which may have a different relevance in the country than in Parliament, give an indication of a negative vote, it may be that there is a risk that, once again, the reform process will return to zero. I'll make a final note. We have celebrated a timetable which provides for the discussion of the measure on civil unions - then President Palma will talk about it - where he has ended up in the Commission. This means - and this has also been mentioned - that it is a complex problem that runs through the Groups and therefore necessarily needs a rapporteur; and constitutional reforms, isn't it? Are constitutional reforms (50 different articles of the Constitution) so irrelevant that they do not need a rapporteur? What are we talking about? [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, Mixed, LN-Aut Groups.]] Mr President, you have a great responsibility and I do not know how you can exercise it. You shared today, but you were obliged to do so. For God's sake, the majority in the Conference of Leaders is a majority and the oppositions do not stand back, but debate in the Chamber later, as we are doing, the proposals for changing the timetable. But responsibility lies with the entire Senate and we must do this job well. None of us has denied that this legislature can also be a constituent, but haste has always generated blind kittens and I do not have the impression that our country can afford a Constitution done quickly and badly. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u23	Senator Romani, I didn't understand your proposed variation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u24	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Excuse me. Of course, the proposal is to remain with the timetable as it had been drawn up at the previous meeting of the Conference of Leaders, without the changes introduced today.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u27	D'ANNA (AL-A). Mr President, before I go into the matter briefly, I would like to ask you a question. We are the object, often and willingly, of an illustration, to the truth, very incorrect. I do not believe I belong to a gathering of scoundrels, nor do I believe that she, who represents this assembly, can tolerate expressions such as those that Senator Castaldi has just pronounced. You are the master of keeping the English aplomb that you believe, but sincerely, because here there is the press, furious to allow all the vents (because it was an outburst and not even within the merit of the considerations that Senator Castaldi made on the Conference of the Leaders), those that are in the loggione or that take us back to the public, bring yours and our silence, impermeable to offense that, outside of this Chamber, you would not tolerate more than me. I would like to remind Senator Castaldi that my quiescence - and I believe also his and that of many others - is a matter of good education and is not the endorsement to the mischief that he has just uttered here. The terms that he used are in fact those of a cialron and not of a senator of the Republic. Having said that, I would like to say to you that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party agrees with the outcome of the Conference of the Leaders and therefore that we are going to proceed as the Conference of the Leaders has just decided. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Shame on you! D'ANNA (AL-A). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna, please come in. D'ANNA (AL-A). Shame on you and the four scumbags that... Senator D'Anna, I'll call you back to order. (Lived altercation between Senator D'Anna and Senator Endrizzi.) D'ANNA (AL-A). Mr President, call back those who provoke me! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I also call to order those who provoke her. But you don't respond to provocations. Senator Endrizzi, please, let's avoid reciprocity. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Shame on you! D'ANNA (AL-A). Shame on you, you moron! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We understand, there is no need to repeat.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u30	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, for those who hear us from home, they didn't sell to me and they didn't call me a moron (luckily, since I was the one who had to intervene), until proven otherwise (maybe we will click later). First of all, I'd like to welcome those senators you never see. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]] There are senators whose presence in this House is zero and who were supposed to be in this Chamber today. As a result, I welcome him, so at least we remind them that there are parliamentary work and that they have been elected to participate in parliamentary work. So welcome, gentlemen. Unfortunately - and I am sorry to say - I was not present at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders, as I was meeting teachers: I will remember, Mr President, the problems of this summer and the stupid reform that your President-in-Office presented. Montevecchi (M5S). Reform is a problem now! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Well, I had to involve Mr Tosato, who for the first time attended the Conference of Leaders. I therefore turn to him: I am sorry, Paul, I swear I will not do it anymore. When my colleague came out of the Conference of Leaders, he told us the outcome, laughing. Maybe hers was a nervous laugh, but honestly, we thought she was joking. No one in the Group believed what he told us, but when Senator Calderoli arrived, they both confirmed what happened. Unfortunately, nothing has changed compared to last year, i.e. when the fake constitutional reforms, this abortion that you are carrying on, have arrived in this House. It is a text that is truly exploitable in the eyes of the Italians and of this House, a shameful text for those who are able to understand and want and for those who are in good faith, a text which, as you will recall, last year was imposed by a great majority vote, debates, river meetings and threats by the President of the Council, who insulted us one day yes and the other also. We all remember the outcome of what happened last summer: it is a film already seen. In the meantime the President of the Republic has changed and the parliamentary groups have come to him at the hearing, agreeing with the President of the Republic a commitment to continue the reform process, in the best possible way and with a debate. As for the debate, we are seeing what is happening in the Commission. We will therefore ask the President of the Republic to speak on this majority, because what we want to avoid, Mr Grasso, is what happened last year. I say this very honestly, partly because we cannot understand so much haste on the part of the President-in-Office of the Council. This man is in a hurry, he has to bring home something, he has to show the Italians that in addition to the plane he bought himself and in addition to selfies with tennis players in New York, at the expense of Italian citizens, something is capable of doing, poor thing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Rizzotti and Simeoni]] Or what do we pay this man to do? When he comes here, the only thing he can do is tweet and play with his phone. As a result, he must force the senators of his party and - poor people - those of the other parties that follow him, who - alas - obtorto neck threaten to make some opposition, but then, in the end, for the cadrega you are willing to do anything. As a result, reforms must be brought home as soon as possible. So, Mr President, the Senate is obliged to suffer this game from the President-in-Office of the Council and this Risiko held within the Democratic Party, in which the President-in-Office of the Council has decided to put his tanks everywhere. Given that there is this game within the Democratic Party, it is absolutely necessary to show that President Renzi has the muscles and his minority must be cornered. Who's in the middle of this? We are in the middle of it, that we are obliged to passively undergo these games and that, honestly, we are bothered that we have to suffer. Senator Tosato reminded me that last year, during the first reading of the measure, seen and considered that Renzi had to silence his own, had replaced many of the senators members of the 1st Commission. This year, since he is the man of Providence, he breaks up the Commission and says: The Commission is of no use: let us go straight to the House. Bravo, in the face of democracy! Our President-in-Office of the Council is truly a democratic man, like his reference party. But, President, the problem is that outside of the Senate reform nobody cares. We are singing it here and playing it among ourselves; but outside nobody cares. Outside there is a Italy that lives, that has problems; an Italy that does not arrive at the end of the month; that undergoes the stupid reforms of this majority, of this President of the Council and of this Government of inepts, President. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] I would remind you of only two or three issues that perhaps had to be the priority in returning to work after the summer break. Does the exodus problem mean anything to you? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] A word, perhaps a bad word seen and considered what has been declared in these hours by the majority. Let me remind you of 44% of youth unemployment: is youth unemployment a priority or is the constitutional reforms of the President-in-Office of the Council more important? I remind you that in Piacenza - we remind this Government - something serious happened a few days ago, and perhaps something should have been done in good time, discussed it in the Chamber and understood from a parliamentary debate also what could be the proposals on the hydrogeological failure of this country. No, it's okay; let's proceed with the constitutional reform of Renzi and Boschi. Then there is the problem of immigration, which this Government has really handled with its feet, and as a result we are now facing the problem of immigration at European level. It is true that this is being resolved in Germany, but it is still current in Italy, Mr President. But constitutional reforms are Renzi's priority. President. - I am going to conclude - as you will have understood, these reforms are not the priority of the country that lives, which produces. We side with them; we side with the country that produces, with the Italian citizens, to whom constitutional reforms do not matter because we do not arrive at the end of the month with constitutional reforms; we do not eat with constitutional reforms, we do not give a future to the 10 million Italians under the poverty line with your constitutional reforms that make chickens laugh. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni]] Therefore, there are two proposals for amending this really not very democratic timetable. The first is that the President-in-Office of the Council should report on immigration issues at European level; on the proposals by Merkel that almost obliges us to accept the migrants you take and take to national territory; therefore, we would like to have the President-in-Office here as soon as possible for a discussion. In addition, in view of Mr Padoan's statements, we would like him to come to the House to hear from his mouth what has come out of these hours as a press note: no structural changes to the Fornero reform. You've created a piece of shit. You have to take the responsibility to come to this House and tell us that you are going to carry on the crap you have voted on, putting Italian citizens in difficulty. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Rizzotti, Simeoni and De Pietro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u33	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I do not think there is much to add to the right arguments and also the arguments that have been used in this debate. However, I would like to return to the real point of the debate and confine my speech to reminding you that we are voting on a timetable that determines the path of a very important issue, that is, that new reading that is now up to the Senate to give after the substantial and important changes made by the House in the process of constitutional reforms. If that is the point, in modifying the Constitution in a modern sense, that is, in an attempt to modernise that institutional scaffolding to make the life of the Executive and Parliament easier and more effective in the governance of the processes, we cannot, however, change, Mr President - as I asked you at the Conference of the Leaders - such an important part of the Constitution, such as the one that abandons the perfect bicameralism, without respecting the procedures that the Constitution contemplates. In other words, it provides that every text that comes to this House must have done its own thing in the Commission, a process which may be successful or not, but which must be carried out. In my view, it does not matter that at the few meetings which the 1st Commission has been able to hold since 1 September, all possible ways of finding political arrangements have not yet been explored, because it is true that this is the place of work and political agreement, but it is first and foremost the place of technical work that guarantees respect for form. Therefore, the first Commission and the valuable work of all Commissioners as President Finocchiaro do not call for a political solution, but for respect for a fundamental and fundamental prerogative of the Constitution. If, as happened, we are faced with an absolutely extraordinary phenomenon, that this summer in August forced the offices of the Senate to record, catalogue, number, photocopy, put on digital support an impressive amount of amendments (which, if you allow me to remind all of it to us and to me first, has not done particularly honor to this Senate, its activity and its way of proceeding), or if you even announce the presentation of a million amendments, all this does not help the composition of a political solution. Instead, today I greatly appreciated Senator Calderoli's attempt to bring back the possible solution to the civil discussion table. The referral back to that restricted committee that was proposed today was one of the solutions, but I am now asking you to take note of the fact that almost all the amendments have been withdrawn in that Commission, so there is probably more content. On that basis, I am asking you to respect the constitutional procedure, which wants the Commission to carry out a work of examining and voting on the amendments as quickly as possible, so that a text, worked by the Commission, which all the senators (first and foremost the members of the 1st Commission) have the right and the duty to examine and vote in this House can arrive. All this so that at the end of this journey the text arrives next week in this House and we can peacefully reconstruct that useful fabric so that that proposal made today in an untemporary way by Senator Calderoli can become a reality, that the real amendments are the ones that must be. In this regard, I would point out that the Group of Conservatives, Reformists, strongly opposed to a reform process which had been gruff as it had been in its first reading, has only submitted 124 amendments; Other groups have done such a thing and perhaps that is the basis on which to really start a fruitful and useful discussion with the country. I am not going to go into the substance of the amendments, because this is not the time. Today we merely divide ourselves (and I hope that it does not happen) on the proposal for a timetable which, in forced stages, wants to eliminate the Commission's procedure, because - let us be clear to the Italians or to those experts who sit in the forums evaluate our statements - in that first Commission most of the time staged the eternal congress of the Democratic Party. Therefore, the first Commission is bypassed to bypass the internal divisions of the Democratic Party; but this, Mr President, with great damage to the activity of a branch of Parliament which, as long as it is, has an obligation to comply with the procedures laid down in the Constitution. That is why, although I do not represent issues of substance, I ask you, as regards the form of guaranteeing this procedure, Mr President, and not to arrive at a timetable which will forcefully give very few possibilities, not only for the debate, but also for the correct assessment of a number of amendments which are sensible and useful indeed for the debate and for the formation of opinion, as well as for the vote of this House. On the contrary, this solution will continue to feed the reactions of those who, by means of instruments, will table a million amendments. I consider this to be one of the wrongest ways of dealing with a process that must be rapid, for a simple reason: not because the Government asks, Mr President, but because, as you know, the budgetary session in the Senate begins on 15 October, so everything must be resolved by that date. I think that in our request to return to the Commission with a reasonable number of amendments there may be respect for the procedures and also the possible solution, entrusted to all the parliamentary groups, of a composition of the procedure which, in my opinion, can sponsor not only a peaceful debate, but also a serene outcome. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u34	Senator, I think I understand the meaning of your arguments with a proposal for a change in the timetable that takes into account the inclusion of the words 'where concluded by the Commission'. I think that is the proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u35	BONFRISCO (CoR). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u38	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, what we are experiencing in this House and in national political life is a very regrettable situation. I have allowed myself, at the Conference of the Leaders, to humbly ask President Zanda, in relation to what happened yesterday afternoon, to review his position and - re melius per pensa - to allow a deepening in the Commission, which is then - before you ask me - the proposal that I am going to make: to bring to the Chamber the constitutional reform where I made the path to the Commission or, alternatively (which is the same thing, because that would be the natural path), as proposed by Senator Romani, to remain in the order of work already established. The unfortunate situation, Mr President, is that two arguments overlap. One is that of a violent non-compliance with the constitutional dictation; I said it with a certain difficulty, slowing down my speech, because - I am sorry, Mr President - in this statement there is an appeal to your figure, to the figure of the President of the Senate, which should guarantee us and should ensure that the whole country is guaranteed that the proposals and deliberations of this House are made in compliance with the constitutional dictation. The other reasoning is that the political situation is pouring into parliamentary life a difficulty that is not so much of Italian politics, but that it is above all - even if then it becomes, as a result, - a difficulty of the Democratic Party. From the failure of Prodi's candidacy to President of the Republic, "impalled" by President Renzi, as well as acclaimed and too often denied (so the excessive denial ends up proving the fact), today we find ourselves having to discuss, violating the Constitution, the reform of the Constitution because the Democratic Party has a huge internal problem: yesterday he saw the negotiations fail, at the famous table of Palazzo Chigi, between majority and minority of the party and immediately after, with an atypical compulsion and without even being warned this Presidency, it was asked that the Conference of the Leaders should be convened immediately because it could no longer be expected and constitutional reforms should be brought to the Chamber. What is this if not a day of ordinary madness? The madness of a party that, like history well would teach us if we were not bad schoolchildren, is reproducing in political life what had been the great difficulty of Christian Democracy which, torn apart among the internal currents, ended up making the first Republic fail and bring us to the second. This madness is so important that it obscures any rethinking of the need to observe the Constitution. It operates in violation of the Constitution, because the constitutional dictation states that before submitting a measure to the House, this must be discussed and voted on in the Commission. This provision was inserted in 1946 in the text of the Constitution, taking it from the English order, where it is enough to attend the sessions to understand that the House of Commons is not made to discuss (there are no banquets with documents on the counter), but to allow the final vote, as everything is discussed in the Commission. Everything we are trying to do is not done in the countries of long and historic democracy: we do not bring to the Chamber a measure that has not been addressed and resolved in the appropriate fora, as are the Commissions of merit. I would like to recall the constitutional judgments and doctrine in this regard; in particular, the very famous rejection of a financial law of the Sicilian Region as some amendments, in the non-compliance with the constitutional dictation, had been tabled in the Chamber without having been proposed before in the Commission and, therefore, the law was declared unconstitutional. In the light of such a clear doctrine, the desire to examine in this House a measure which has not been dealt with in the Commission (where the general debate was held, but which was not at all illustrated and addressed the proposals), ends up creating a procedure which, as in the deliberations of the Conference of Leaders, has strong connotations of unconstitutionality. This is all the more true when all the opposition groups have contained their amending proposals. Thanks to the precious, even atypical, testimony of President Finocchiaro, we are told that the amendments are only 2,000. It is said that there are many amendments, but, having dealt with so many financial maneuvers with the submission of 7,000 to 8,000 amendments, I can say that 2,000 amendments can very well be compressed and reduced when the focus is on the decisive ones of the debate, with the result that all the other amendments connected to them can very well lapse or be withdrawn. The problem is therefore not the number of amendments, but this excessive stubbornness. I think that this excessive stubbornness of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, which forces the Senate to have a debate which is not at all conducive to good decisions, is just a deliberative space which will lead us to a constitutional change that is too quickly elaborated and with excessive contradictions. One question would suffice: instead of discussing and saying on television that the most important issue is that of prerogatives, the important problem, so that journalists ask the question and the President of the Council answers, is Article 2. Is it the question of direct election or whether regional councillors are present or not? But what reason would there be to discuss this when the equality structure has been changed and it has already been decided that this Senate should no longer vote for trust? What are we discussing here, whether they should be voted directly or not? But what does this matter to the Government, which will no longer receive the trust of this House; what is it about? The truth is that its objective is another, and it is political, namely the internal war at PD. It does this and if it is not denied, as it has not been, if not today, by Minister Boschi in Giunta, then it is true what is read in the newspapers: the decision has been taken to exclude this Presidency, to see and know whether or not this Presidency will admit the amendments to Article 2. Given the decision of President Finocchiaro, in fact, it could no longer be expected: the Renzi Government needed to know whether its space of revenge against internal opponents could have a moment of resolution or not. We, therefore, between the stubbornness of the President-in-Office of the Council, whom I will euphemistically call excessive, and the inattention of the country which, as other colleagues have said, would certainly want more attention to our important problems, to those real reforms and those actions that can produce positive effects in terms of employment, instead of starting a debate on the economic situation, on work or on justice or focusing on the implementing decrees of the reform of the public administration, we are talking with insistence on the reform of the Constitution. Allow me to say, Mr President, that this ends up being not a matter of reform or progress in the country, but a reproach of the institutions. And I do not want to come to the grievance of the institutions, in love, as I am, of this place and grateful for having been there for so long, nor do I want to share such a responsibility. I therefore say no to the violence that this Government wants to carry out against the Senate and I oppose and will oppose with all my strength that constitutional reform, as it was designed and prepared, can succeed in this House. I insist, Mr President, that it is also your responsibility, because the Conference should never have adopted such a timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u41	Bisinella (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, I would like to make a few comments as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, not now, but more than a year ago. Therefore I have experienced the crossroads of these constitutional reforms and I have recorded what happened before the summer break and now, in these two weeks since the resumption of work. We have now come to discuss the timetable for work for a very precise and objective reason: basically, there has been a situation of impasse and political stalemate in the Commission, determined by two opposing factors, which have been well highlighted by those who preceded me. On the one hand, a stronghold within the Group of the Democratic Party, with a match that was played until yesterday with a sort of all-out group leaders held within the Democratic Party alone (therefore an entirely internal opposition to the party of majority and government); on the other hand, an unbridled obstruction by the oppositions of the center-right area and the 5 Star Movement. This has led to the blocking of the Commission's work which, in our view - I myself had done so - could have been carried out with a fruitful debate on the substance, in the context of a more relaxed climate, on the qualifying points that could improve the text of the constitutional bill. As we have heard even now in the speeches of the previous speakers, we all see the need for this text, which is not good, to be changed in the sense that it really enhances the role and the task that the new Senate will carry out, with attention to its composition, but, above all - and this is the most important aspect, as I have said repeatedly in the Commission - the powers and functions it must perform, because otherwise it is no use keeping it standing: it would be an empty box and for us it would be better to have the courage to abolish it tout court, because as it is it does not work. There could be an open-faced confrontation on these points and on these contents, but it was prevented by an avalanche of amendments which, in my opinion, led to the creation of an aid to the Government to arrive at this forced entry. You see, President, we have tabled about 250 amendments, all of which are of merit, aimed at enhancing the new Senate as a true Chamber of representation of territorial institutions, qualifying them as roles and functions, in contrast to a Chamber that remains unchanged in its 630 Members. This is so that in the country really happens what we all say here that we want to complete, that is to say the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism, so that we can also lighten and simplify the system of legislative production. This stalemate in fact took place in the Commission, Mr President, and that avalanche of amendments certainly did not facilitate dialogue, indeed prevented it, favouring - I repeat - an assist to this forcing, with the offices that were forced even during the month of August to do overtime to fascicolare and produce cards and with a Commission that had to equip itself with appropriate electronic media, in order to facilitate its consultation with an increase in the cost of public money. The forcing that we are witnessing here in this House should not have taken place and could have been overcome. In conclusion, Mr President, given the timetable which has just been announced and the fact that, at this point, the Commission is prevented and would be prevented from examining it even through a restricted Committee, which would only have the task of broadening the speaking time, because we believe that, if the intention had been to discuss the substance of the issues, those amendments could or could not be tabled or withdrawn earlier, we propose that we discuss here, with an open-faced confrontation between the political forces, on the points which might improve the text. I am also referring to the changes made to the House, which have objectively made it worse. I want to conclude by making a point. We are here to do things in the interests of the citizens: we must never forget that citizens, families and businesses want reforms to be done in this country and that we share, provided that they are reforms that are well done. On this, with a great desire also to make a different policy, not to be reduced to propaganda for its own sake but empty of content, we want to be able to make a contribution and we want to do so in this House. I believe that, with the help of the various political forces, we can approve some changes in common sense and improvements. In my opinion, Mr President, I believe that we first tackle the knot... PRESIDENT. Excuse me, Senator, but if you don't have a proposal to change the calendar, let's leave room for those who want to do it. Bisinella (Misto-Fare!). Allow me to make one final point. I also address my colleagues in the centre-right area: the policy of the much worse, the better, and to the ruin of everything only satisfies the easy consent, because it is easier to pursue, than those who look at their own interest and certainly not at the interest of the country. After the timetable, at this point we conclude here the examination of the measure, after which finally, after a year that we talk about it, there will be time for this country to really face the economic, fiscal, labour-related reforms that affect our companies. The proposed calendar agrees with us because at least we put an end to this pantomime of the games and begas of the Palace.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u44	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the institutional discomfort experienced by the members of the Forza Italia Group was clearly represented by President Romani. Certainly the style of President Romani's speech was very different from that of President Castaldi, so different that Senator D'Anna did not intend to address also to President Romani his hard repressing. This in itself would make my speech superfluous as a member of the Forza Italia Group, but I have decided to intervene for the responsibility that I feel as President of the Commission and to protect the work of this Commission and all its members. You see, Mr President, the timing of a measure in this House is objectively an acceleration of the work of the Commission, and that was the reason - but not only that - because the time had now become ripe, because of the arrival of the opinions of the Budget Commission and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - for which, on 29 July, in the Committee on Justice, the amendments to the unified text drawn up by Senator Cirinna on civil unions began to vote and the work on the date which had been set by the Assembly was not completed. Nevertheless, it went ahead with the resumption of the work also considering that the bill on civil unions had in the meantime disappeared from the calendar. We all know that the one on civil unions is a particularly delicate bill, in which the expectations, hopes, wishes and, if you like, also the life plans of thousands and thousands of Italian citizens, who really do not deserve to cultivate these hopes at short notice, especially if these hopes cannot be met at short notice. You see, Mr President, Mr Senators, with a great deal of neutrality and without going into the substance of the measure - and that is the point of my speech in this House - I would like everyone to be clear about the situation. Over 3,800 amendments were tabled to the Civil Unions Act, not considering the 400 or 500 additional amendments that Senator Giovanardi intended to withdraw. The President of the Commission, who is speaking to you, has decided that more than 55% of these amendments are unpropos or inadmissible, which is more unique than rare in the parliamentary history of the Senate and Chamber Commissions and, excuse me, which is even more unique and rare if this decision comes, as it came from, from a President who is not part of the majority of the Government. We have started voting on the amendments and, as you all know, there is an exasperated deepening of any amending proposal by certain political forces in the Commission. In summary, without going into the substance of the measure, what differentiates political forces is not the recognition of individual rights (for certain political forces individual rights, for such other couple rights). The issue we are debating, rightly or wrongly, does not matter. This is a political problem: for a political part, the text prepared by Senator Cirinna constitutes a similar fac of marriage. This contrasts, in your opinion, with Article 29 of the Constitution and constitutional jurisprudence. This is clearly rejected to the sender by another political force, which states that Senator Cirinna's text is perfectly in line with the Constitutional Court's judgment No 138. The theme, of course, is not insignificant and hence the exasperated deepening. In order to make it clear to you, Mr President, that again this morning you sent me a letter informing me of the desire of certain groups to intensify the work of the Commission and to make it clear to all the senators, as it must be, that at the 14 or 15 sessions that the Commission was able to do on 29 July (clearly excluding the summer break), no more than six or seven amendments were adopted at the sitting. And 1,250 remains to be voted on. If it gives me so much, having voted in 15 sessions about 60 amendments, I suspect that it will be particularly difficult to conclude the work of the Commission from now on until next week. That is the point of my speech, because I do not want, or would not want, someone to say tomorrow that the work in the Commission has not been completed, even if it can be concluded, for who knows what political reason. The political reasons are there, they are the basis of the contrast between the political forces on this measure, but if that measure does not go in with the rapporteur, it will not go in for the reasons I have just explained. You see, Mr President, everyone says that I have a bad temper. Maybe. And since the prosecution obviously concerns me, being particularly generous to myself, I'm of the idea of not having it. I have a serious flaw. I am not a hypocrite, and I am led to say very clearly what I think, even if unpleasant, trying to use (and to this, I must tell the truth, it served a lot the passing of time) the most kind and polite forms possible. Hypocrisy is not only the transmutation and concealment of the truth. Hypocrisy is also to contemplate as possible what is known to be absolutely impossible. I come to the point, Mr President. This is not a minor problem, because the fact that an examination of the draft law on civil unions is written on the calendar, where concluded by the competent Commission, means something that ordinary citizens can imagine as a measure that can be concluded in the Commission and that only who knows what rare occurrence can lead to its failure. So, Mr President, 1,250 amendments remain to be voted on. By the way, I have called the Bureau. Tomorrow I had called for a sitting of the Commission on justice, which I will inevitably have to debauch because from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m. there will be a sitting of this House. Of course, I could convene the Commission sitting at 8 p.m. or 9 p.m. and maybe continue until 2 p.m., 3 or 4 p.m., but I do not know how much, regardless of age, senators are available, after having worked for almost 13 hours, to continue working at night. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] Similarly, I cannot convene the sitting for Friday because, as I read in the calendar, we are called from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. I don't know Saturdays and Sundays, but I'm available. As for Monday, Mr President, the Conference of Leaders and you have decided that the amendments to constitutional reform should be tabled by 9 a.m. on Wednesday, and I imagine that the Senators of the Justice Commission will want to participate in such an important work for the country, namely the modification of a large part of the Constitution; I imagine they will ask me to be able to devote their time to this activity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u45	Please conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u46	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I will conclude, Mr President, also because I am getting the voice out of my mouth. Tuesday we have again sitting from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m. Wednesday we do not have the closing time and Thursday again until 8 p.m. Mr President, how can I conclude the work of the Commission if the members of the Commission are always here in this House? [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups]] Since giving the impossible as possible is not, in my opinion, a serious matter, the change I am asking for is an alternative: for a verse, to remove from the calendar the bill on civil unions or, on the other hand, to schedule them - alive god - without the expression "where concluded by the Commission" and to take note of a situation that in fact is recorded. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u47	Colleagues, since they have signed up to speak seventeen senators and it is necessary to rationalise the timing of the interventions since all political forces, including through the Leaders, represented their proposals for variation, I would restrict the time of each intervention to no more than three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u50	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I will also be very brief because many things have been said. The proposal is to delete, with reference to the draft law on civil unions, the term "where concluded by the Commission." It is an alternative proposal to that of my Parent Company, in line with that of the President of the Justice Commission. This is because it is the focus on which we continue to be unable to schedule night sessions, which senators of any age can face, since we are here to solve the problems of the nation. It will be the eighth time that you postpone the examination of this measure after going to the prides, having had you photographed and told the citizens that we would have done it before by the summer, then by October, and then again by 2016. Now we're going to 2017 [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's set a date. Just make fun of the people who are waiting for their rights to be recognised. We're all on this line here. Not voting on this proposal now is crucial. President Grasso, please invite Mr Zanda to consider this proposal for his party because it costs you nothing and allows us to put pressure on the President of the Commission for a few night sessions. I guarantee that this will be enough to cut off a becero obstructionism - as we have also seen today - with drinking arguments and to allow to bring home a measure that, moreover - as all Italians know - is not a matter of exchange. The subject of exchange is Italicum and Senate reform. So, you're clearly doing something wrong, unjust, and painful on the people's backs. I would ask you to vote for this change. We will find ourselves in the Committee on Justice where we will deal with the thousand amendments tabled in a few nights. We finish our work and then bring the measure to the House when the Conference of Leaders decides. However, let us set a date and remove the phrase 'where it is concluded in the Commission'. If not, since Scalfarotto was undersecretary, I really ask you to stop making promises, pretend anti-government protests and show up at public events, get photographed and say that finally the PD, the 5 Star Movement and the secular Parliament will bring this reform home. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u53	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the proposal made by our leader, Mr Castaldi, is absolutely a priority, I would add another one in my personal capacity. I propose that we add the debate on motion 1-00405 to the timetable to remove the capacity of the F-35s to carry nuclear bombs. This is the third time I have proposed that we discuss this motion which has already been signed by a number of groups. I would not like it to come too late to discuss it, that is, when the NATO nuclear bombs, which we have in Aviano and Ghedi, have already left for the United States for the changes to make them compatible with the F-35s.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u56	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Our Constitution - what Roberto Benigni calls the most beautiful in the world - was made by our fathers who survived Fascism in order to prevent a regime of that type from being created again or even just similar to it. The Constitution says some very simple things. I think - for example - of the prediction that the Government cannot make laws, but can intervene with provisional measures that have force of law only in case of disasters, as can be a flood in Genoa, an earthquake or a flood in Emilia or a tornado in Veneto. But the government doesn't do that. The Constitution says that the Government can legislate only by delegation and with strict constraints of Parliament and, instead, does not: it follows the decree of urgency for its urgent clientele, for the need to stabilize politically and for convenience of part, or it arrives at the paradox of writing and handing over to Parliament the delegations that it itself wants to receive and on which, reaching the height, it also raises the question of trust. The Constitution also says that constitutional change laws must have an enhanced procedure with two passages and that under no circumstances can shortcuts be made. Well, we have seen the regulations forced here, the oppositions guillotined and dialogue mowed down. We've seen leghold traps, we've seen kangaroos, we've seen constant abuse to force. Mr President, I am speaking on the Rules of Procedure. I don't know if you got the solicitation I made yesterday. So, I think I have a little more time, by the Rules of Procedure, than you have for the calendar issues. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're discussing the calendar, so you're going to medias res, Senator Endrizzi. ENDRIZZI (M5S). This is a matter relevant to the timetable, but of a regulatory nature. I ask you to be kind and I will have some, Mr President. I don't want to be here for ten minutes for the sake of it, but I'd like to argue well. We have seen that this Government has done all these things with the current Constitution. Then, perhaps, bicameralism is not a serious problem, if it is at ease anyway to proceed to forced stages and nailed boots; or these are violations that must be stopped. Seeing what is being done with the Constitution still alive, I am horrified of what could happen tomorrow, with a Constitution cut out on the wishes of a Premier, who already calls himself so, who will give him the opportunity to elect the President of the Republic, to appoint the Chamber, the Senate and regional councillors, the most corrupt class in Italy (attributing to him also parliamentary immunity); to get his hands on the appointments of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Constitutional Court. I'm horrified, and I'm a little shitty. And when I express my sentiment, I think I have the right to do so, without a charlatan coming to give me a piece of shit. I am honored to be a scumbag here and to reduce my salary, because I am bringing the interests of the citizens here, because democracy also means economic well-being and not that our money goes into the hands of lobbyists, who call themselves banks or multinationals. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Having said that, Mr President, since all this has happened in the silence, in the ignavia and in the absence of those who call themselves right, I ask you to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, to define once and for all whether it is regulating what has been consumed today, namely the violation of the article of the Constitution which provides that, on the amendment of the Constitution, there are no shortcuts and that moreover on the amendments, in a law whose installation must be as solid, coherent, cohesive and compact as possible, it cannot be prohibited to propose innovative solutions, regardless of whether or not it affects the text modified by the House. I asked him yesterday, because of the Vice President on duty, and he asked him before the summer. I think we have to do this today, because tomorrow is late. It is your responsibility now and I thank you for listening. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u59	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the process of revising the Constitution, as it is written, wants the participation not only of all Members of Parliament, but also of the citizens, and for this reason, the referendum is planned. In order to do this, Mr President, there must be the possibility of following and also the ability to find mediations. And this was not possible, despite the exceptional skill of President Finocchiaro, who I believe is right, when he says - as I read - that perhaps we need political mediation at a different level. And then, Mr President, when I read a timetable that does everything but favour that mediation, everything does except allow Members to be present at all times, everything does but allow citizens to participate, I ask you first of all to move the deadline for tabling amendments to Thursday evening. Why is that? You see, Mr Zanda, I do not think that the world will fall if we vote on the amendments on 28 September with the presence of the quorum. In fact, we are faced with a constitutional reform that the government wanted for the first time and not by Parliament and with the government that also sets the times, and that said that the deadline for approval is 15 October. Then don't say it's October 15th, but it's September 28th. Mr President, what I am proposing is the only way in which the mediation which President Romani hopes will be achieved. On the other hand, if we set the deadline for tabling amendments on Wednesday morning, why continue the general debate? If we want to bring the Commissions together at the same time, it means that we will not even be able to take part in the debate. Everyone will remember - President Zanda remembers as I do - that, in the last parliamentary term, we approved a constitutional reform and the House was always full, all day long. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to ensure that what Senator De Petris has proposed is accepted. I therefore propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set for Thursday evening 24, that the amendments be voted on from 28 and that they not be held alone, but that the afternoon sitting be closed at 1.30 p.m. and that a new sitting be resumed at 3 p.m., because we must ensure that everyone's responsibility is given the opportunity to be here to debate. If, on the other hand, the package is already packed and you think that constitutional reform is treated like any legislative measure, in which the obstruction of the opposition must be overcome and therefore the vote imposed, without even the possibility of thinking, I think you are wrong. Mr President, I think that perhaps your mediation could also allow this proposal to be accepted, because it is the only one that will allow policy to take a step forward and not have anyone trying to impose their will on others.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u62	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will not use more than I need. I am particularly addressing President Zanda, and I am sorry that the President of the 1st Commission has had a different commitment at the moment. On the other hand, I do not expect a marginal senator of the opposition to awaken particular interest in the representatives of the majority. And I would like to start by reminding you that, normally, those who make politics, like a minister, should know that a debate such as that on the current timetable could become political and, therefore, it would be nice to see a representative of the Government who is sensitive to this and not just colleagues who are now in the government's stalls and whom I value all. Mr President, I would ask you to pay attention for a moment because, although I am marginal, I sometimes say something that I do not say intelligently, but perhaps usefully. I asked, inter alia, in cooperation with President Calderoli, to take part in the general discussion on the measure under consideration in the first Commission, considering that I could give, together with my colleagues, a useful and necessary opportunity for everyone to understand the original thinking of our movement with regard to the reforms and the way in which to try to implement them. I asked a question then, because it seemed absolutely interesting to me in relation to the demands of the President of the Republic, who asked me quite clearly about the reforms to seek maximum membership in Parliament, and I do not think I had dreamed of it at night. I went to that Commission a few days later, following this request from the President of the Republic and asked the Government - Undersecretary Pizzetti, you were present; now you are on the phone, but even in this case it is not important the thought of a marginal senator of the opposition - if the proposition that appeared at that time was a single interpretation of institutional etiquette towards the President of the Republic or if it was instead the real will to make concrete arguments about constitutional reform. On that speech that I made, even with a couple of proposals, I received - and I was very pleased - the considerations of closeness of some of the government's representatives, including the Minister, and of those colleagues whom I consider friends outside the political group, whose personal esteem has nothing to do with the script to which, sometimes, we are obliged, and I think - for example - to Senator Cociancich. Perhaps, in that intervention, there was a reasoning that probably allowed the opening of a dialogue different from the current tensions. I said that we would test this will with some political and parliamentary passages. I do not think it is my turn, President Grasso, to remind her of the chronology: from President Calderoli's pregnant and indicative action to the more or less obvious statements that we have made - of course we members of the opposition - trying to make it clear that, on certain issues, we were not and still do not agree, but that the method could be reasoned. Now I ask President Zanda - but I do not want the answer, because of course my question is purely academic - and I would also ask the Undersecretary of Pizzetti as well as those colleagues of majority, among other things close to President Renzi, and first of all to Minister Boschi, whether that political expression, with respect to my speech and to our speech, was a mockery of the opposition groups and, in this case, also of the President of the Republic, or if there was and must be a real openness on the content of the reform. President. - I shall begin with the conclusion. I see that the microphone is flashing, but allow me to continue my speech, since I do not often intervene. This time I will repeat the question: the President-in-Office of the Council - and I am not, therefore, blaming the parliamentary groups, which sometimes become different instruments in the political arena - is making fun of minority groups and the President of the Republic in relation to the demands of the latter. I wonder why from this - outside the timetables - we understand what is the desire to share a reform that finds criticism in the areas of the majority and the opposition. Mr President, considering that the political debate must be done before dealing with certain situations linked to certain timings, President Romani's proposal to maintain the existing timetable is - in my opinion - the most opportune and it is also in order to leave no responsibility to you before the political knots are dissolved and so that you have our closeness in the solitude in which, in future moments, you will have to exercise all your political and institutional conscience and understand the real positions of the Renzi Government and the Boschi Minister with respect to the President of the Republic. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u65	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, I make a brief statement to which I refer the meaning of a testimony, albeit modest, which commits exclusively my personal responsibility. I did not agree with the choice that has been made, partly because it contradicts the reasons which previously laid down for an immediate transition to this House. The amendments have to a large extent been withdrawn and, therefore, there was the possibility of a close and peaceful, valuable and fruitful comparison. I believe, however, that the duty of responsibility and respect for Group discipline commit me to voting in favour of the proposed timetable. I would, however, like to make a final point. I believe that, if we remove the mask of hypocrisy and concealment, the fact remains that there is a dispute. Divergent opinions are present in the Group of the Democratic Party and I think there is still plenty of time for a discussion and a dialogue that - this in my wish, but also in my conviction - can arrive at a shared solution. These are the reasons why I repeat my position, also because it is necessary to deny a sort of rumor of the anointed circulating and pouring causes, namely that so-called dissident senators - I prefer the denomination of minority as a sign of continuity of membership - would want to use the stool, the lever of constitutional reform to create problems or even drop the government. This is an argument that does not stand up and fails to withstand the challenge of a counter-comparison. If some had wanted the fall of this government, they would probably have chosen issues that would give rise to wider popular consensus and wider public approval. So let's get to the bottom of the problem, confront each other and look again.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u68	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will speak briefly under our Rules of Procedure. Given that I believe that the decision of the Conference of Leaders, which you have certainly suffered, is such a serious violation of our Rules of Procedure that perhaps the President of the Republic should also be asked about the matter, I would like to refer to Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure. I should like to point out to you that for two years now some draft laws, namely No 119, dealing with new provisions on protected areas, and Nos. 120 and 370, which deal with the reform of the legislation in the harbour matter, have had the urgency procedure from this House, having been introduced in the same text approved in the previous legislature. Paragraph 3 of Article 81 states that, if the Senate decides on the urgency and the adoption of the shortened procedure, the same bill is certainly entered in the calendar or in the outline of the work immediately following the one in progress at the time of the deliberation. Therefore, for the past two years, those three draft laws should have been included in the agenda of the Chamber, regardless of the opinion of the Conference of the Leaders, for a mandatory provision of the Rules of Procedure. We have waited and, at this point, I must say in vain, and so did Senator Filippi, who was the protagonist with me of the same presentation of the request for urgency. However, now, in the face of such a blatant violation of the Rules of Procedure, I cannot but ask you that, before proceeding with any other draft law, you should automatically schedule the draft law no. This is the reason why our Rules of Procedure, which have been ignored for two years, require this - and it does not propose it. We have now reached the point - as they say - and, therefore, we must proceed to the conclusion of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u71	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to propose an amendment to the timetable approved by the Conference of Leaders, which is as follows: to schedule, prior to the discussion of the draft Constitutional Reform Act, the draft law No 1458 - Establishment of the National Network System for the Protection of the Environment and the discipline of the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research - the establishment of the National Network System for the Protection of the Environment. I believe that this type of measure is necessary and indispensable in the current phase of the environmental life of our territory to ensure the control and guarantee of the levels of environmental quality that our country requires.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u74	BERTACCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have a small premise and a small consideration. It has not been a year since I was proclaimed senator and often, in this House, I have heard of the constituent Fathers. Today it seems to me that this story has been trampled on, ignored and mocked and this has not happened in the designated places, not within the Commission and not even in secret rooms within the Senate, but even outside, where a President of the Council decides to change the Constitution in its image and likeness. I believe that citizens must know this, because - as has already been mentioned - at the time of the referendum, surely the country will demonstrate maturity, requiring that, when the constitutional reform is dealt with in Parliament, it is as shared and discussed as possible in a civil and acceptable manner by all political forces. My proposal is that, instead of discussing constitutional reform, the draft law on environmental delegation, discussed and approved in the Commission, which certainly presents important issues for the entire Italian population.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u77	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I propose not to set a date for the conclusion of the examination of the draft Constitutional Reform Act, and I also explain why: it is difficult to establish and determine a date for conclusion. I listened first of all to Senator Palma's speech, which I fully endorse and agree with: how can one think of achieving a result, determining the date, without all the examination taking place at the right time, due, necessary, in the Commission? In this case, Mr President, we are not talking about the cooking of pasta, for which, if you do not respect the scheduled minutes, you run the risk that it will be too al dente or maybe overcooked or - as perhaps you want to pass - precooked. We cannot accept a term already defined, and not because there must not be one to be established, but because it must be established and deepened in various steps, as the work continues. Going to define it already now means that the bill is destined to meet an approval definitely nuca, penalized, inappropriate and sudden in the final result. The call is therefore not to define, not to determine a date already, but to establish it as the work continues. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u80	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would also like to thank you for the style in which you are putting up with what is happening. I have great respect for the figure of the President of the Senate and, specifically, for President Grasso. I believe that the Renzi Government is humiliating this House and is - I do not mean ridiculously, and I do not use this word against you, Mr President - but abusing your power also against the second office of the State. I believe that you, Mr President, do not deserve what we have read in these days and in the last few hours, and that is perhaps said by off microphones. I remember what happened at the Conference of the Leaders that the Parent Company of Forza Italia, Senator Paolo Romani, reminded us with the style and moderation characteristic of our Group. Thank you very much for the way you handled the situation there and I hope you will be able to give voice to the oppositions and to the majority of the country. There are different ways, times and styles in this House, as well as different ideas and proposals. However, there is a force, which today represents 30% and has not passed through the vote of the Italians, which leads the game and is imposing on the remaining 70 percent (i.e. all opposition forces) a way of proceeding that, if it is disdainable but acceptable with regard to the examination of ordinary legislative measures, is not absolutely acceptable, but rather dangerous when it comes to constitutional reforms and electoral laws. Mr President, we are talking about the rules of the game, which we should all be able to write together and say what we think. I believe that you would be the guarantor of such proceedings. Unfortunately, you too are under very strong pressure and these days I feel like addressing you, with the respect that always distinguishes the interventions of the senators of my Group, because I understand your difficult situation and the burden it carries on your shoulders, having to suffer pressures that probably prevent you from telling us what you think. And for that reason, thank you. As far as the timetable is concerned, consideration of the measure in the field of civil unions has been added. Moreover, Mr President, knowing you, a man of law, and your personal history, I understand the embarrassment you have experienced in opening and closing that parenthesis, which makes everyone smile a little 'because the calendar that is proposed to us is very weak and muddy. I would like to highlight two aspects. President Palma reminded us that it will be impossible to comply with the timetable because, if we are here, we will not be able to be present in the Commission and, if 60 amendments have been tabled, it will not be possible to make another 1 250, because I have the characteristic of listening with respect to everyone, as you always do. This is, therefore, the first vulnus present in the calendar. The second was represented by Senator Caliendo, in the same style and the same way as Senator Palma (perhaps because of their common professional background), when he recalled that the sessions should not be unique. We are discussing constitutional reforms in our country. I repeat: we are talking about the Italian Constitution. Mr President, since we have been prevented from expressing ourselves and commanding with arrogance is the strength that represents 30% of the country - the President-in-Office of the Council commands, in fact, with arrogance - we would at least like to know that the meetings are not unique. Each of us and every political force will assume the responsibility of saying: yes, we are present, or not, we are not present. If the spectacle is that of an empty Chamber, the Italians will move further away from politics, unless there is a design and a scheme behind it: "I am part of a strong political force on the territory and that, if it goes wrong, will always represent a 20.25 percent of the electorate, and this quota can be made equal to 70; let's get the Italians away from the vote more and more; let's not discuss electoral reforms and constitutional reforms. In this way, with my little consent, I will make 40, but it will be 20 compared to the Italian population." Mr President, on this issue too, I would like to ask you for a strong signal. I did not vote for it, but you are also my President and you are the guarantor of everyone. I am sure he will have the strength and character to be the President of all these hours and days. In fact, I'm gonna ask him hard. I ask you not to allow anyone to humiliate this Parliament, because you are the guarantor of all of us. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] For this reason, I complete the proposal: precisely for that calendar we were talking about and to allow President Palma to bring together the Justice Commission and face civil unions, not to have unique sessions, as Senator Caliendo asked, and to respect us, as our leader, Senator Paolo Romani, has asked, I ask you to put a point in the calendar before the one under discussion. Look, Mr President, that I am really asking you: it is true, you have noticed us and we are doing a little bit of that melina that is right to do, because we want to give you time to think. You, President Grasso, are my President of the Senate...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u81	Say the proposal that needs to be voted on, please. The President of the Senate will accept the decision of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u82	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President. Excuse me, but I have to make an inscription with which I'll take you away 30 seconds. You know very well that you have a very important role to play, and we look at you, because we do not allow anyone to be as arrogant as the President-in-Office of the Council is. This, in fact, is the Senate of the Republic, of all Italians and of all political forces, Mr President, and not only of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Here, on the other hand, a continuous congress of the Democratic Party is taking place, day by day, on every measure. As I said, therefore, my proposal is that the draft law No 1559, on financial advice, should be inserted and put before any other point. We look to you with confidence, Mr President, because tonight we are taking on great responsibilities. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u84	You have the floor, but I recommend that we be brief, because the deadline is the closure of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u85	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, at a time when the country's emergencies are unemployment, at its highest historical level, and immigration, which involves serious social problems and in public opinion, Parliament, in order to demonstrate that it is very far from the difficulties of its citizens, wants to deal with institutional reforms, to give Renzi all the power with 25% of votes, and homosexual marriages, under the name of civil unions. Since Article 72 (1) of the Constitution is to be totally violated, which provides that every measure - even the most marginal, and not the reform of the Constitution - is to be examined in the Commission and in the Assembly, while in the Commission not even one vote has been made, so this passage has been completely skipped, I propose the following. If you want to do this, first examine the draft laws, which can be presented by the Groups in a few hours, and first schedule the reform of Article 72 (1) of the Constitution, and then, when the process is over, you will be able to do what you are doing now, that is to skip the Commission and rape the Constitution, because, once modified in this sense, it would no longer be raped. It will be said, therefore, that the Commissions are either abolished or the passage is purely formal, so that we have a chat and the votes are postponed, as has been done today, because there is no majority, and that can be done. Secondly, since the second priority is adoptions for same-sex couples, first I would like to have the bill No. 1,726 inserted, at the first signature of Senator Divina, which amends Article 403 of the Civil Code, on the basis of which today tens of thousands of children are taken away from their parents, in many cases with good reasons, in others by the will of a single person of social services, perhaps without experience or substitute. This is supposed to be an emergency in the country. We talk about family, we talk about that, and then we can talk about other things. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u88	MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I did not mean to speak, but frankly I must say that I was puzzled, not to say disappointed, by the kind of events that have taken place today. I would ask all of us three hundred and fifteen, as many as we are, to reread the acts of the constituent Assembly, to see not so much what was happening then, but the level of confrontation there, which clearly did not aim at forcing, but at a frank and in-depth debate on certain issues and contents. There is a sidereal distance between the work of those days, which then gave us a Constitution that went on for fifty years, and what we are doing, after thirty-six years we have tried to reform the Constitution. It is a distance that puts fear, even in the method. I have to say, sometimes I get puzzled. I heard, for example, Senator D'Anna's surgery earlier. You will all remember, ladies and gentlemen, the position of Senator D'Anna, and I think you will also remember, Mr President, that you had some not indifferent controversy with him during the first reading of the measure. Senator D'Anna has completely changed his position in relation to the reform, which has even deteriorated for some. At the time he came to say, with a funny joke, even if certainly not of good taste, turning to the senators of Forza Italia, who bowed to the point that you could see the...: you understood what, I stop here. Here we have even reached prostration and I begin to think that all this is proof that the comparison to which we give life is only a stage and that in reality the real confrontation takes place behind the backstage, where the risk is that the negotiation does not take place on this or on that other point, but on many other topics, which may be the most different, but which have absolutely nothing to do with a confrontation that should reform the Constitution. I am starting from a premise: it is already strange for a government to decide to be the proposer of a constitutional reform, to be its vector, but to do so while in the newspapers at the same time we talk about reshuffling seems absurd, a madness. In fact, I imagine that certain things should take place in a situation that is absolutely distant from everyday life and probably also from those that can be the negotiations. I am a man of the world, but a negotiation about the Constitution is clearly exemplified with something else. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator. MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). President, I am really afraid that this confrontation between us will be polluted and contaminated, and that is precisely why, since there are other priorities in the country, we should have the courage to make the proposal to remove the draft constitutional reform law from the timetable. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u90	You have the right to do so. I recommend that you be brief, Senator, since by 8 p.m. we have to finish the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u91	GIBIINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would have merely read the request for inclusion in the timetable of the draft law which I am about to indicate, but the last two speeches by Senator Marin and Senator Paolo Romani, and the attention you are giving to every single speech by Members of Forza Italia, have led me to a reflection, because it is true, President, that everything rests on your wisdom. The reason why we are adding a few more words than is necessary for the timetable to be changed by this rather than by that measure is so that you can have time to think, because the reform that we are going to do without a natural passage to the Commission and without there being a senator rapporteur, after all the effort that has been made in building a Constitution by the constituent Fathers, giving the country today a change of the Constitution under the title of speed - what characterizes the political activity of Prime Minister Renzi - seems very little. The inattentiveness of the other branch of Parliament cannot lead us to be inattentive. You are the only person who can at this moment protect the country, the Constitution, democracy, freedom and respect for majorities, because the changes will probably make a minority of them in this House, but it is up to you to protect the majorities that represent the political forces that are currently sitting in this House. That is why I ask you to put before every other point of the calendar the bill no. 1728, which concerns provisions for the protection and enhancement of agricultural and food biodiversity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u94	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will be thinking politically and no one will want me to do what I say, with the utmost personal respect for each of you. As a humble senator in this House, I address you mainly, Mr President, who is a man of great experience and also a man of balance and justice, who today presides over the Senate, an important point of reference in our country and in the world. Is it normal to violate the rules of the Constitution? In your opinion - and I ask you as President and as my esteemed friend - is it normal that we should not proceed to the Commission and go directly to this House? Is it normal that there has been a statement in this House - and I have the greatest respect for the senator who has made it - as a vote for party discipline, namely that the party can become more important than the nation and the country? Show me if I should interrupt my speech, but I would ask you, Mr President, to give me some answers. My left-wing friend is right to say that today it is difficult to identify people of common sense and balance within Parliament and outside Parliament and that we are going through a difficult time for us and for our children. The responsibility is not for Renzi, but it is for each of you who will vote within this branch of Parliament on the wretched proposal of a President-in-Office of the Council who does not love Italians. My proposal, Mr President, is to put the motions on RC-auto insurance before the debate on the item on the agenda. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u97	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, while we are discussing constitutional reforms, of which it is known that citizens care very little - citizens would be interested in the savings and issues of the economy - we know that for what will be the next Senate so designed, there will be absolutely no savings and that it will have no function, that these pseudosenators, regional councillors, will still be paid by the local authorities and since it will not have functions it would have been better to abolish it completely. This government once again demonstrates its own inconsistency and arrogance of the President-in-Office of the Council and does not touch on the issues which concern citizens who, as we have said, are those of the economy, security and immigration, who we know are represented not only by economic migrants, but also by refugees fleeing from theaters of war. As a member of the Childhood Commission, I warmly welcomed the timing of child protection motions by ISIS and Boko Haram. We do not yet know how many people are dead, we know that it is a great security problem: these are terrorist criminal organizations that are expanding over the years, have left Nigeria and have arrived in Cameroon and other countries yet and kill thousands of people. These motions called for the Government's commitment to draw the attention of international partners, if they can give it to them, on a dramatic subject that concerns children. These children are tortured, beheaded, crucified, buried alive. There is the theme of children soldier, children kamikaze who can arrive here with the famous boats, which is a theme that interests everyone's safety. So, I ask that we return to the previous calendarization of these motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u100	I say that Senator Mandelli will be able to speak again after Senators Ceroni, Aracri and Floris, who have previously indicated that they want to intervene. I remember that speed is important in order to reach the end of the sitting. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I just have a few simple thoughts. I imagine his discomfort, as a man who has always dealt with this state with great passion, in the face of these forcings. I wish, through you, that my reflection could reach the ears of the President of the Republic, who is the guarantor of our entire homeland. I would like to know whether the President of the Republic is not at this moment wondering whether the reform will come to the House without a move to the Commission, without a rapporteur, providing for single sessions, with all the problems involved - we know very well - to such a serious matter, violating the Rules of Procedure, putting a deadline for discussion as if constitutional reform could have the deadline for a yogurt we find at the supermarket. I would like to know whether you, in the first line, but rather the President of the Republic, can give us the assurance that what is happening is normal; that a normal country has such an attitude in the face of what is constitutional reform, which is the maximum, sublime moment, of an assembly like this. I would like to be reassured, by you and the President of the Republic, who is the guarantor of all, that we are in a normal country; that constitutional reforms do not have a deadline like yogurt; that everything that is happening is monitored by you as a normal procedure, which happens in all civil countries. I ask you that a Member at the first parliamentary term like me should know that what is happening is what has always happened. That what President Berlusconi and Forza Italia proposed in the last parliamentary term was in line with these methods, which I find absolutely not civil or democratic. I appeal to you before you come to the summary of my proposal, which will be a provocation to get your attention. I would like to know if you can get a voice to the President of the Republic, asking whether, speaking of constitutional reform, this is normal. I would like to understand whether you, who have always represented the institutions, think that this is the best way to give the Italians the feeling of a Parliament that freely chooses how to take them to vote. I would like this guarantee from you but, without taking any role from you, I would like it from my President of the Republic, who must guarantee me and the Italian citizens. My provocation is that in the calendar the 1986 Senate Act, which ratified the Cooperation Agreement between Italy and Senegal, is before all. In fact, I would not like the issue of reforms to become a very topical subject, as I believe that this Italy has a non-democratic drift and from a third world country.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u103	CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, what is happening in this prestigious Chamber is a real shame, and this is not the first time it has happened. To trample on the Constitution, laws, regulations in a continuous and repeated way is a serious behavior, which incites violence. We cannot complain here about events taking place in the country if we are the first to fail to comply with the rules. The President of the Council, the Government, the Ministers are also subject to the Constitution, laws and regulations of the Republic. Dear friends of the PD, do not be deceived, these false reforms will not stop the collapse of consensus that you have suffered in the country. I think you will pay dearly from an electoral point of view for these anti-democratic behaviors. I want to stress the grace with which President Paolo Romani wanted to represent the position of our party. I, on the other hand, am frankly more outraged, more angry, if you will allow me, and I believe and stress, as some colleagues have represented, that you, Mr President, must ensure the proper functioning of this House and respect for the Constitution. Too many times we have witnessed in this House the violation of the Constitution, laws and regulations. I propose that we stop this attack on democracy and confirm the old timetable. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u106	ARACRI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking even though I feel that I am witnessing a trite and grievous ritual. I do not want to, Mr President, but, beyond the sympathy that your person evokes, I see you firmly hostage and prisoner of this majority and of this PD that is playing on the skin of the Italians, using the constitutional reforms, an internal game governed by Mr Renzi, who is halfway between a Wanna Marchi of politics and Orietta Berti, who sang the boat goes, even if it seems to me that, going this way, will take Italy to the end of the Titanic. My friends and colleagues have already mentioned and recalled the measures that should be brought to the attention of this House, rather than this stuff that nobody cares about, but we know perfectly well how this film will end. After all, Renzi needs yet another commercial, yet another announcement. Moreover, I ask myself and my colleagues: but when does Renzi work, since he is always on television and abroad, moreover strictly with the money of the Italians? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the senators Bernini and Rizzotti]] I understand that we are now in the most complete marc, but I believe that the simplest and most banal proposal on earth should also be added to the demands of my friends and colleagues, for what little is worth: to bring back the hand of this parliamentary work to 16 October. As for everything we are doing, a great poet, Franco Califano, would say: Everything else is boring. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u109	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we know that the Rules of Procedure allow us to revisit the calendar of meetings of this House, but this revisiting should have a motivation of necessity and urgency, an expression to which we have become accustomed, above all, to the discussions on the issues of trust requested by the Renzi Government. What I'm asking is, what would happen if the Senate reform bill were not passed on October 15th? I wondered deeply and the answer is: exactly nothing. I would like to know what the majority of this drama that Italy would feel if it did not respect the deadline of 15 October. On the other hand, the revisiting of the timetable would have another reason, in my opinion, if we took into account document XVI- bis No 3 on the Schengen Treaty, which is necessary in order to respond to the problems that our media daily and dramatically commit, both newspapers and televisions: we cannot participate in the pain of relatives and of the entire population for the deaths that occur every day and then do nothing. The need for the revision of the Schengen Treaty, with document XVI- bis No 3, would allow this House to develop a speech, motivated by criteria of necessity and urgency, to review the Schengen and Lisbon Treaties, because if they are good in a situation of everyday life, they cannot be good at an emerging time like this. More than 400,000 immigrants in a year cannot be treated as a matter of everyday life or ordinaryity; they need a profound review of the Treaties. This should be done urgently by our Senate; this should be done by the House. That is why I would ask you to schedule document XVI- bis No 3, the report on the Schengen Treaty, in order to be able to share the changes to be made to the international treaties. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u112	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, many things have already been said, but I cannot escape a consideration of a personal, political and relational nature to the parliamentary group I represent. Today we are living yet another horrible day of violation of the Constitution. We have heard several times not only in this parliamentary term from characters who have risen to the highest standards that reforms not only constitutional, but even electoral ones, are not done by majority shots. This was said by President Mattarella in 2005. It is not possible for reforms - and we are talking about other reforms and other times of debate in the Commission, and I stress in the Commission, not just in this House - to be done through the work of a single political party, the majority. I'm very upset. That is why our Parent Group has already spoken, but I myself represent my Group in the Commission and I cannot avoid representing all of us in this House - because we are all involved in this political responsibility of yet another profound and horrible violation of the constitutional dictation - the fact of completely ignoring a fundamental, profound and essential step that we Opposition Groups, in the discipline, have simplified by abandoning a large part of our amendments and repeatedly asking our President to vote for a restricted Committee within which to reach political agreement. We asked him for animated by the best intentions. Mr President, we cannot at this moment stop and think about this. We are missing a fundamental step, the passage to the Commission, after having said on several occasions how hard and important the sacrifice that you yourself made during the summer had been, having said that you had studied all the hearings of the constitutionalists that we heard before the summer break. Let us turn to the work of the officials of our Commission, who have been thanked several times and who have spent their time in fascinating amendments which now become rag paper (although perhaps they have never taken the form of paper). Does this not mean anything to this House? Does it not mean anything to us MEPs that we have the right, by intervening on a constitutional text, to have the necessary time - colleagues, I am not talking about obstructive time - to assume the moral and political responsibility for what we are doing? Right now we're once again... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr President, you have given me this time, but believe me that the time we are recovering is a time that we will have to dramatically justify and of which we will have to dramatically report to those who are watching us from outside. It is true that the country is not interested in constitutional reforms, but is interested in an absolutely undemocratic way that is becoming the rule in this House. A parliamentary committee is not a harp. We are making the horrible habit of not considering the Commission as a time for the drafting of the law: we are jumping it and arriving in the Chamber without a rapporteur. Mr President, for this reason and for many others, which unfortunately I do not have the time to list analytically - there would be a good analysis to be done here, but which I reserve the right to do during the general debate, which will be quick, accelerated, unfortunately useless and insufficient and a further vulnus to the Constitution - I propose to put before every other point in the calendar of the Senate Act 112, at the first signature of Senator Palma, in the matter of provisions on disciplinary responsibility of magistrates and office transfer. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u113	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposals to amend the timetable for the work of this House. Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the discussion on the proceedings of the Senate
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u116	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I asked you to refer the Rules of Procedure to questions relating to the timetable that should be voted on or amended. I ask you what you have decided in your heart and in your conscience.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u117	There is no question of a timetable for the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. We are concerned with whether or not to approve the timetable and modify the timetable. ENDRIZZI (M5S). The calendar violates the Constitution. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In any case, since it is the President who decides whether or not to request the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, in this case, at this time and on these issues I do not think it is appropriate to ask the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for an opinion. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to restore the previous timetable. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to add the words: "where concluded by the Commission" in relation to the examination in the Chamber of the draft constitutional law revising Part II of the Constitution. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. Mr Barani (AL-A). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, could you tell us the results of the counterproof? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't have the results here. You can see them on the board. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include no time limit in the discussion of the draft constitutional law, put forward by Senator Amidei. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable of the Assembly's work to eliminate the examination of the draft law on civil unions. It's not approved. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). What happened to my proposal? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Petris, there is no order of priority in the vote on the amendments: we are grouping them together and now we will also vote on yours, if you have any patience. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work, which aims to expunge the words: "where concluded by the Commission" with reference to the draft law on civil unions. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the examination of the bill on citizenship income. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. Let us now turn, as usual, to the summary votes on requests made by more than one senator. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the discussion of further draft laws and documents. If adopted, the individual proposals will be put to the vote. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the holding of motions. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the Assembly's work to include government communications. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I shall put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's proceedings with a view to providing for a different timetable for the sitting. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. This concludes all the summary votes of the requests made by more than one senator. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u120	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking only to inform you, since a constitutional force of this gravity has been imposed, that our Parliamentary Group will only be able to address the President of the Republic, supreme and last guarantor of the current Republican Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u123	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, in recent days a hotelier in Sondrio has received heavy threats, accused of having hosted, as the law provides and having carried out all the bureaucratic procedures, refugees. That hotelier - I tell Centinario, man of doing - a worker, was left alone by his mayor who attacked and criticized him. Another fact has happened these days. (at 19.59) (Following MIRABELLI). A few minutes ago the Regional Council of Lombardy approved an amendment, proposed by the League and voted by the center-right, to a law on tourism that decides to deprive of the possibility to participate in regional calls all hoteliers and tour operators who have decided to host the refugees on the basis of the proposal of the prefecture. [[Comments of Senators Cotti and Fasiolo.]] I believe that this is a very serious matter, and that is why I ask the Presidency to report this to the Government immediately, because, when it is approved, I believe that the Government must immediately challenge a clearly unconstitutional rule. Senator Centinario first intervened explaining that concrete problems need to be addressed. One of the concrete problems this country has today is the reception, and I believe that the people who make themselves available for this must be rewarded and not punished. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Welcome to your house! MIRABELLI (PD). You need to make yourself clear, because I understand propaganda... [[Applause from Senator Fasiolo.]] Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Welcome to your house! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Centinaire, please. MIRABELLI (PD). I understand when the emotions grow, Salvini says that he takes them to his home - I don't think that will ever happen - but at least we avoid punishing. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u124	Senator Centinario, please, I call you to respect the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u125	MIRABELLI (PD). Let us not punish in a barbaric way and to make propaganda those who take responsibility for a country's problem, because you are only capable of propaganda. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u126	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-506.ana.u127	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 17 September, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.02 p.m.
