ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 1429-B, which was first approved by the Senate and first amended by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u11	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a request in relation to the economy of work. The distribution of the time allocated to each Group was made at the beginning of the organisation of the work and was calculated in eighty hours distributed to the Groups also on the basis of the number of amendments tabled. Our Group has been allocated four hours out of the eighty total, or five per cent: it is not a percentage corresponding to the size of the Group but rather, probably, to the number of amendments tabled. With regard to the fact that the amendments have been cut off by inadmissibility and foreclosure, we ask the Presidency (always in a collaborative perspective) to be able to re-evaluate the time available to the Groups. Given that it is always eighty hours overall and that the deadline was set on 13 October (therefore no time shifts are possible), we ask to redistribute the number of hours allocated to the Groups, also in view of the fact that the majority party hardly ever intervenes. We could use the extra hours available to argue whenever we need to do so, because it seems to me that we have always spoken on the substance of the amendments and not in any other way. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll evaluate the timing distribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u14	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the request that I would like to make before it becomes late is that we be able to subservient to Amendments Nos 10,201 and 21,5, although not printed; but because we are far from Article 10, I certainly believe that there are times. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Let me see what this is all about, and then I'll consider your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u17	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I rise to speak on this amendment, which is a sign of how what could have been a debate, a reflection placed as common and transversal, that is, the electivity of the new Senate, in the end became the object of an internal mediation. The regret is that what could have been a reflection with important contents now takes on the taste of a whim of someone who is content with an exit strategy, which grants very little in the content, in the clarity of the formulation and leaves open a series of issues that add up to all those that have already been reported on Article 1 and the other parts of Article 2. I am not at all convinced that the problems of our system are linked to the perfect bicameralism. Perhaps it would have been appropriate to make, in advance, a different reflection on what are the real reasons (a sort of self-criticism) and to take the time to elaborate an observation on what are the mechanisms that do not work. However, once it was decided that perfect bicameralism had to be overcome, it could have been done with real and serious content. It is not so, because the new Senate you are drawing, in reality, does not have significant competences; it does not even have a training that can guarantee that the subjects who enter this Senate will be able to express a content that you have not been able to give or that you have not wanted to give. It is very difficult to think of a Senate that will essentially remain a Senate of nominations, of provisional subjects, eventually untied by both voters and territories. Let us not forget, in fact, that of these one hundred senators, twenty-six (which correspond to 26 percent), they will still be appointed. Now, a Senate elected in this way, as in the amendment by Senator Finocchiaro, does not meet the need, which I have heard several times in this House, to revitalize and give meaning to participation. Participation is in these figures, as we are talking about the Senate of the Regions: in the last regional elections held in Emilia-Romagna, 34 percent of those entitled took part in the vote. I cannot really imagine how it is possible that those who are normally interested in the electoral data do not reflect on this, unless it is sufficient that that 34% give these same people the victory. But in the presence of percentages of participation in the vote so low I would say that surprises can be lurking and I am just curious to see what will happen to the elections for the Municipality of Bologna. I would not like this same majority, which focuses so much on the regions and territories, then in reality had to touch with hand the fact that on the territories it is collecting more dissent and refusal than consent and participation. Those who believe that they have solved the problem of electivity with this amendment have, of course, obtained a weak way out, so to speak. Diversification of the competences of this Senate is another issue, perhaps we believe, even more important. The powers acquired by the Chamber of Deputies and the relationship between the legislative capacity of the Government and that of the Chamber would perhaps have been even more worthy of reflection, I don't mean a battle (because I don't like the word), but a serious reflection and also an opposition. In fact, everything has been focused on this aspect, which is certainly relevant, so that, under the eyes of truly unbelieving citizens, the also agonic dimension of these Aules has become a competitive dimension: the agony is degeneration, the agony is when you have to win anyway, the agony is, of course, also the recomposition, within the team, of a unity. Often words are used here that - I must say the truth, while respecting those who pronounce them - also have the sound of hypocrisy: we recall the need to be on the subject, the need to talk about content, the need to discuss; but then, in reality, not only those who live in these classrooms, but also those who listen through radio or television (there are so many citizens who listen), remain shocked at the competitive level and not at the content of the debate. Everyone is responsible for this, even those who, being content with this poor exit strategy, make what was a very strong theme, namely the theme of participation, laughable. I am seriously concerned not only about the aspect of participation, but also about the inability (which we, or rather you, are actually having) of our country to face the need to be strong in Europe, delegation everything to a single Chamber that effectively delegates everything to the President of the Council of Ministers. Who will then be this President-in-Office of the Council is all to be seen, because obviously uncertainty reigns supreme in the ballot box and no electoral law will be able to make a prediction of the intentions of citizens to vote, even if it tries, like a bed of Procuste, to force it, to force it. As far as the strength of Parliament is concerned, I would like to draw attention to the content of a seminar which is particularly important with regard to the European perspective which seems to hold us closer and closer. In fact, it will not have escaped any that much of the decree that is made today and many of the bills presented by the Government are actually answers to real infringement procedures. Instead of meeting European legislation, this European design, we then empty this possibility. The strength of the parliaments is described in this seminar. (Senator Mussini shows a printed one.) Of course, Minister Boschi of this seminar was a guest of honour with Senator Russo, but little must have remained, because the people who intervened favorably on the draft reform law pointed out, however, that precisely that same strength of the parliaments, those whom you referred to in your speech quoting Ingrao, cannot give in at the moment contingent in the face of inability to be efficient. Efficiency, in fact, is the result of a path, not of a force. The strength of the parliaments is not born from a forced force, but from the fact that the choices of the representatives of the people must be strongly embraced and shared by those who then ultimately have to realize them. We speak - one by one - of all those who are involved from time to time in what the legislation produces and the executive tries to achieve. Of course, the substance of the matter will be discussed again, because in this House the climate is almost day after, but it is certain that there will be other times to do so in the course of this debate. But what I think I have to stress today is that, apart from all the events that have characterized the debate, especially yesterday, there is no real desire to achieve a common mediation. This will is not lacking because of the strong words, the inability or the number of amendments, but because of the same competitive approach that this Commission has given to its entire exercise of government, which we have checked over and over again, not recognizing in this way, in fact and not in words (because the latter always cost very little), the value of the contribution that can also give to those who are not of the same political side. [[Applause from Senators Bell, De Petris, and Molinari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u20	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are about to vote on an amendment defined by the press over the past few hours, in an exaggerated way, like the heart, at the heart of the constitutional reform measure. It had to solve the problem of the electivity of the Senate, but it does not change the second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution, referred to in Article 2, which concerns precisely the election of future senators, but the fifth paragraph, the one relating to the duration of the senators' term of office. He does it with an innovation, introducing the concept of choice and does it, therefore, with a mess. On the other hand, we had to come to the conclusion of a debate that lasted for weeks, started - all in the home - within the PD, between majority and minority, amplified by the media, deliberately amplified by the media on the thrust of Prime Minister Renzi who wanted to achieve some goals with this debate. First trigger a final and final battle within the PD war, which later won. Secondly, he wanted to shift the attention of the media, and therefore of the Italians, exclusively to the question of the electivity of the future Senate to pass the concept that senators fight here only to ensure the future re-election and the consequent compensation. Focusing attention on the above concept, consequently, the other fundamental aspects of this constitutional reform, namely the emptying of the functions of the Senate, the fact that the Senate will no longer have legislative autonomy, that the Regions will be emptied of powers, that in this new, future Constitution there is a clause of supremacy with which the State is given the possibility to intervene in all the residual matters that remain to the Regions. There was no mention in the debate of the combination between this reform and Italicum, which, as has been said several times in this House, risks taking the country, in the future, to a dangerous ridge. I repeat: those who win the next elections with a relative majority, perhaps only 25%, will have the opportunity to elect/name the President of the Republic, the Presidents of the two Chambers, the representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and of the Constitutional Court and we are not satisfied with the subsequent amendment of Senator Finocchiaro who brings back to the Senate the appointment of two members of the Constitutional Court, not enough. It is a drift that makes it possible to appoint the members of the Authority. I would also like to highlight another aspect that concerns Article 78 of the Constitution: we, with this constitutional reform and with the Italicum that will certainly bring fewer and fewer people to vote (probably not even 50% of voters) will risk having a relative majority party, perhaps voted only by 25% of voters and therefore only by 15% of voters, who will dominate the House of Deputies and will have the opportunity to decide even the state of war and give the consequent powers to the Government. Let us reflect on this too. Having said that, before entering into the substance of amendment 2.204, tabled by Senator Finocchiaro, we reiterate that it is inconceivable that the dual role of senator and regional councillor, the dual role of senator and mayor, are envisaged: both roles will not be carried out with diligence, competence and professionalism. We here in Parliament have many times struggled to coordinate the work of the House with that of the Commissions. Let's imagine, one day, how it will be possible to coordinate the work of this Senate with the work of the nineteen regional councils plus the work of two autonomous provincial councils. In this connection, I would also like to mention the provision of Article 6 of the draft law amending Article 64 of the Constitution, which obliges future representatives of Parliament, and therefore future senators, to participate in the work of the Assembly and also of the Commissions. I wonder how the twenty-one mayors who will also be appointed senators will be able to be present in the Chamber when, on the territory, there were to be phenomena of hydrogeological failure, perhaps an exondation. The mayors of Italy are not like Ignazio Marino, who does not miss an opportunity to escape when there are problems in their territory. [[Applause from Senator Volpi.]] There are responsible mayors who, in the face of phenomena such as natural disasters, will remain on the ground rather than come to the House to attend the work of the Senate Chamber and the Commissions. This dual role means, basically, that the future Senate will be a railway post-work, where you will meet, if anything, once every two weeks. In order to come to the substance of the amendment to the vote, without disrespecting Senator Finocchiaro, I think it is a farce. After the embarrassment for the Democratic Party minority, who also had to endure the vote of Verdini and company, it represents a humiliation for the PD minority, a minority that marks the dead and political prisoners. Above all, this amendment is a deception, a mockery for the citizens, who are being made to believe that it will be them tomorrow, from 2018, to elect the senators. This is a fake because, even though the ordinary law will be passed (and in our opinion this will never happen), even if we are not told how the problem of the split vote with the twenty-one regional laws will be solved, even if it is not clear whether the citizens, one tomorrow, will find themselves in front of a list of candidates senators, decided by the secretariats of the party, rather than having the possibility, through a preference, to choose their senator, of course, from 2018, that is, from the next Senate, certainly the seventy-five next senators, regional councillors, will be elected by the same regional councillors, subtracting this possibility from the elected citizen. I said this yesterday and I repeat it again today: certainly the twenty-one mayors who will be members of this future Assembly will never be elected by the people, but will be elected by the regional councillors and therefore, again, by the party secretariats. For these reasons, I repeat that the Group of the North League will vote strongly against the amending proposal, at the first signature of Senator Finocchiaro, which is an amendment that is a fraud. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u23	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, I rise to speak against Amendment 2.204, which was first signed by Senator Finocchiaro, and which was inspired above all by the call made in this House a couple of days ago by Mr Vannino Chiti: I am referring to the invitation made to take on procedural issues, in order to get into the substance and substance of the constitutional issue. It should be pointed out, however, that Amendment 2.204, at the first signature of Senator Finocchiaro, aiming at an agreement within the majority and in particular within the PD, has made the conditions for a broader political agreement impossible and frustrated in fact. I would like to point out, Mr President, that you yourself spoke in advance on the issue of inadmissibility, referring to the need for political agreement, precisely on matters relating to Article 2. I did not find any clearer words than those set out in the Montecitorio Assembly, by the then deputy Sergio Mattarella, in the debate on the constitutional reform of 2005, to get into the substance of the question of the form that becomes substance. Mattarella said, in that circumstance: The opposition is seen as a spectator, awaiting subsequent elections and possible revenge. It is not the institution (...) that holds the relationship with the Government, but it is the political "majority" part. The replacement of the institution in its powers is a sign of a distortion of the life of the institutions, of the conception and vision of the life of the institutions. Of course, at the end of all this, ladies and gentlemen, it must be made clear that there is a concept whereby those who win, those who obtain the majority become the owners of the institutions. At the basis of this text is the conception of the state's possession in the hands of the majority. It is not so: those who win the elections are called to direct the country in the name of everyone, in front of Parliament and in front of the electoral corps. He's not the owner of the institutions! Putting in place of the Parliament institution only the political part of the majority in the relationship with the Government denotes a possessory conception! (...). It is an affair, ladies and gentlemen, which does not have much justification or much sense. It has only the effect of creating a system that, by overturning the Constitution, will be inefficient and will not work. It will be a paralyzed system within it. In the same speech he said: In addition, the text in question contains, to a large extent, constraints, rigid mechanisms and exasperated automatisms completely unrelated to a Constitutional Charter and which sometimes lead to paradoxical consequences. These are the words of Mattarella that I find useful to propose again, not because there is no different context today, but because, since they adhere to the procedures, they say a lot about the impossibility of finding a real understanding on the constitutional affair. It is precisely the planning of the strategy to find an agreement within the PD that has delegitimized the way in which an understanding on the Constitution has been sought and that makes it impossible to call this a Constitution of all, because it has been knowingly made impossible for the oppositions to participate in the constitutional project. Therefore, even before the factual and substantive aspects, it is in the method that there is no constitutional matter. For this reason, as a Group - within the limits of the determinations that its members will take - we will oppose these decisions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u26	Mr Quegliariello (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment takes into account the way in which future senators are elected, establishing what we could call almost universal suffrage. President Chiti, in his speech yesterday, explained how this system has a precedent, which connects to the history of our regional institute. If we wanted to maramaldade, we could say that, in fact, we spent a lot of time on a solution that was almost natural. Those who have intellectual honesty could perhaps admit that this solution was indicated, I would say almost sculpted, since the beginning of this debate in the speeches that the Group of the New Right Centre has presented since the first reading of the measure under consideration. You see, Mr President, it was not the art of divination that anticipated the conclusions of a long negotiation, but a reasoning that focused not so much on the point of the method of election, that in Marxian language I would define a superstructure, but on the structure, that is, the functions of the future Senate. It seems to us that this Senate is first of all a Chamber of Compensation between legislators: that Chamber of Compensation to which Mr Tremonti referred in one of the most interesting speeches we have heard in this House, which has failed in the reform of the seventies and, even more so, in the reform of Title V of 2001; that Chamber of Compensation which derives from the need for a moment of connection in a State that grants the Regions powers sometimes even greater than those that the Regions have in federal states. This should be of interest first and foremost to those who care about sovereignty and speak about it in this House, because, in the absence of such a moment of connection, what has happened over the past fifteen years is that it is not the regional or national legislators who decide. How many times, Mr President, in the face of disputes that have developed either by the Regions or by the State, has the Constitutional Court actually decided, carrying out an additional task, without which even the economic damage to our country would have been even greater than what has been determined? The truth is that the lack of this link and cohesion instrument has created legal uncertainty. And this is a gap that has paid for all citizens and in particular economic operators, because in a state where there is no legal certainty there is no investment. Especially in a global economy, other markets are preferred where certainties are greater. So, if that is the case, it is clear that the representatives of this House must not only have one contact, but must belong to the institution they represent and cannot but be regional advisers. On the other hand, it is also true that this House will have important functions that emerge from this horizon. I am referring, for example, to the election of the President of the Republic and the election of two constitutional judges, and I could go further. Therefore, the solution of direct regional councillors who have a virtuous "contamination," a contact with the sovereignty of the people, is not a downside compromise, nor a compromise found in the ranks of the Democratic Party. It is the most logical solution for the Senate functions that we have designed with this reform. Rather, I would expect from those who dispute the inadequacy of this reform to reflect on the fact that the Presidents of the Regions should be present in a Senate of this kind in order to engage them in the moment of cohesion and the link. I would expect a reflection on the real need, at least as regards the legislative and not the administrative aspects, which persist the State-Regions Conference, and what the Conference must be so that it is not a duplication and that this institution can have all the prestige and constitutional importance it deserves. We are changing the bicameralism, we are not drawing a "reduced" or weakened bicameralism. This was and remains the ambition and this Senate, Mr President, should and could be a starting point to understand also what the role of the regional institution, which today is in a sort of limbo, is between colors that are suspended, because the region of the seventies as an irresponsible entity is objectively entered into crisis and the region that we have tried, even in the previous legislature, to bind to responsibility, through fiscal federalism and standard costs, has failed to achieve. Today that institution must be rethought in the architecture of the State and if this is the opportunity to leave then it is a good opportunity. If it is only a point of arrival, then Mr Tremonti is right: it is an old, backward reform. But in our conception, reforms do not close today, they go ahead and this could and can be an opportunity to move forward. On the other hand, Mr President, in this very logic, in the logic of creating a Senate that speaks to a new complexity, to the complexity of modernity, President Finocchiaro had to have the link with the European Union reinserted and an essential function in the quality of legislation. They are only clues, certainly insufficient and likely to be deepened, but they give us a horizon that is further and that lead us beyond with our gaze instead of taking us back. This is the real bet and it is the bet that even oppositions and critical voices within the majority should assume. Mr President, a bicameralism as a counterweight has never existed anywhere in the world. It is true that this Senate enters into a new architecture that needs new counterweights, and that is why we had carried out a "modest" reflection on electoral law. That is why we also say to the oppositions: what is more a counterweight? A direct election or, for example, an equal committee on the development of public finance, chaired by a member of the opposition, which we have envisaged in our amendment and which we would like to discuss? I believe that those who are aware of how the world is going, of what globalization is and what modernity is, will agree with us that this is a much stronger counterweight, and probably in this case we would talk about structure and not just superstructure. That, Mr President, is why my Group will be voting in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u29	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 2.204 is basically a pact, or rather the lintel of a larger pact. And, as a pact, as a contract, it bears the signatures of the contractors: it is regrettable to note that they are only contractors within the majority. However, as in any written contract, I have to assume that nothing has been left to chance and that every grammatical element, lexical, has been studied and carefully considered, also because we are reforming the Constitution. It is clear that democracy dies when it is left in the availability of a majority (which is appearing in the posts occupied by the government). Of this amendment, then, I think we should at least do the autopsy. If I am mistaken, perhaps if the signatories do not agree with any of the elements contained in the text, perhaps we should say so now, because it could change our explanation of vote. This is not the case, and so I proceed. The amendment begins with a comma. What's the comma? It is the element that separates the main sentence from the subordinate one. So, I have to think that when you say "in accordance with the choices made by the voters" you refer to the main phrase, which reads in the text: The term of office of the senators coincides with that of the bodies of the territorial institutions in which they were elected. Therefore, the regulatory scope of this amendment refers only to the duration of the mandate. It is as if it were said that the citizens, by voting on the Regional Councils, intended to give a term of five years, as planned, and the same will be the duration of the senators' term of office. Do you realize that? [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u30	Sorry to interrupt, Senator Endrizzi. I would like you to reach your seats without occupying the centre of the Chamber, and I would nevertheless urge you to lower the tone of the conversation or to leave the Chamber because I cannot hear what Senator Endrizzi says clearly. Please continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u31	If there wasn't that comma, then we could think that here it's written that the senators were elected in accordance with the choices expressed by the voters, but that comma disjoins, so you can't pretend to believe it. However, you see, Mr President, the confirmation that there is no reference to the choice of voters in pointing out the senators is an incontrovertible fact, namely that it is the regional elections in which a choice would have been made - this says the amendment - but in the regional elections how can citizens express their preference for one mayor or another? Yet 21 mayors will be senators. So this amendment cannot determine what has been mediated. From the legal point of view, it reminds me of a Hawaiian wedding, one of those not tight pacts in the town hall and then transcribeable in Italy, but one of those purely figurative rites for which you make the video with the garlands around your neck and then you keep it for remembrance and once you return to the hotel maybe everyone gets into the room and with the partner who will like it most. Well, Mr President, let us look at the sixth paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution, as amended by Article 2 of the draft law under consideration, which also refers to this amendment, which clearly states that seats are allocated by virtue of the votes cast and the composition of each Council. Where are the voters' choices in all this? In fact, bearing in mind that the Councils are elected by a majority law, indeed a hyper-majoritarian law, we should ask ourselves the question of how it is possible that, with a second level, which will then accentuate the pressure of the parties, we can elect senators who will then elect the President of the Republic or reform the Constitution. There is not that element of representativeness necessary. A few months ago, the Constitutional Court ruled that an electoral law was unlawful because it strongly distorted the will of the people as a highly majority. Well, we are talking about regional councils that come from regions whose advisers are sometimes elected with an accentuated majority over the old Porcellum, not to mention the mayors, who could then become senators, according to the condition - I do not see here Senator Falanga - to be elected, but the mayor of a municipality under 15.000 inhabitants can also be elected with 3% of the votes. It is therefore not possible to entrust high and high representativeness to persons elected in this way. The biggest mockery, however, is in the first part of the aforementioned sixth paragraph which reads: By law approved by both rooms, the arrangements for the allocation of seats are regulated. I then wonder whether the seats are allocated by law approved by both Chambers or by virtue of the votes cast and what room for manoeuvre this law will have, if the constraint is already indicated at the bottom. Aside from that, when we talk about both rooms, do we refer to these? Will we approve this law before constitutional reform, and then risk making a law that I can only call "preactive"? I find no other word than this to define a cart put in front of the oxen. But what rooms? I do not think we can refer to this House, not to this composition, because the day after the promulgation of the reform President Mattarella will have to note that this Senate is no longer in conformity with the current Constitution, it will have to dissolve it and also the House will have to dissolve. Then know that we will have two hypotheses, both bad. The law may no longer have a chance to be there because we will have a House composed, yes, with a majority system, yes with Italicum, but a Senate composed in a different way, and both should agree. Is this how you plan to solve the problems of bicameralism, making them worse? But then we could come to the paradox, even worse, that this law that will have to regulate the modalities of attribution of seats, law on which your agreement is based and that holds the entire constitutional reform (if it is true that President Finocchiaro said that if Article 2 falls, the whole reform falls), will make it a House or will not be done without the will of a House of appointed by a single party secretary. You will not be there, because you will be largely cleansed, but to the citizens what will remain? I cannot understand how one can be so blind in front of these things, unless the government has given you a herbal tea of dandelion, which in Venetian is the "brusaoci" (the translation of the dialect will be made by Venetian colleagues), perhaps with a pinch of canine rose. And that's what I said. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u34	Mr Fornaro (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in these hours and in this House many words have been echoed in relation to this amendment: fraud, pantomime, hypocrisy, fraud, fraud, deceit, mockery, the death of democracy, mockery. And towards the minority of this Group there have been heard vulgar expressions as sold, calls to prostitution and equally vulgar references of food and wine, tripe and lentils. I do not want to go down to this level, and I would like to try to be on the merit of the amendment, claiming the only word I personally consider appropriate, which is that of compromise: yes, it was a compromise, a realistic compromise, but not - and I would like to emphasise this - between the majority and minority of the PD and within the majority of the Government. As Senator Tonini pointed out, it was the result of listening and trying to put together two visions, two models that both had dignity: that of a Senate of territories and, at the same time, the need for citizens not to be totally expropriated of their right to choose representatives. Look, compromise is not an unpronounceable word. I know that in today's communication it is assimilated to "inciucius" and derogatory terms, yet I believe that compromise is the cement of every good Constitution. When De Gasperi, in December 1947, intervened in the House of the Constitution, the day when the final text was voted, with a little envy he said that he saw his colleagues in the Legislative Commissions dealing with the great problems of the Constitution by throwing out the great arches of the Constitution. Well, the great arches of any great engineering work need cement, something that holds them together: this is the compromise. One may disagree, it is legitimate, it is in the debate of every Constitution. However, I believe that a fact cannot be ignored: in the text that came to us from the Chamber of Deputies the citizens did not intervene at any time in the selection, in the choice of senators. Well, if - as I believe and hope - this amendment is adopted, a constitutional principle will be included in the Constitution, for which the seventy-four senators regional advisers will be chosen by the voters. This principle was not there before and today there is; this is a fact and not a subjective evaluation. I recognise that it would have been better, for a more correct reading, to completely rewrite Article 2, but the choice of the President - whom we respect - was to render inadmissible all the amendments concerning parts of the article that have not been modified by the House. So what we have before us today is, as I said, the incorporation of a constitutional principle. Many of the critical speeches have - I do not know whether by will, choice or convenience - ignored a term of the amendment, which refers to the "compliance" of the choices made. Compliance is not an ordinary term: in law it simply means that those choices, the choices of the citizens, expressed at the time of the renewal of the regional councils, cannot be modified by the regional councils. This means "compatibility." It was then said, in some way as proof queen of the scam, that there is no specification regarding the content of the electoral law. I would like to remind you here that the principles must be included in the Constitution and that there is no trace of electoral laws in the 1948 Constitution. In the judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 1 of 2014 (the one that declared the so-called Porcellum unconstitutional), the Court recalls its previous judgment, n. 429 of 1995, in which it recalls that the constituent Assembly \ while manifesting, with the approval of an agenda, the favor for the proportional system in the election of the members of the Chamber of Deputies, does not intend to stiffen this matter on the normative plane, constitutionalizing a proportional choice or formally arranging in relation to the electoral systems, the configuration of which remains entrusted to ordinary law. Well, I have heard doubts and reservations that I do not consider to be entirely unfounded, but from this point of view it must be clear that the electoral law will dissolve these doubts and reservations. It is clear that this constitutional principle must be followed, as quickly as possible, by an electoral law that is consistent with these principles, which regulates the way voters choose on the day of the regional elections. I repeat some of the reservations I have heard: what does it prohibit, in this amendment and in the text of Article 2, the adoption of an electoral law in which, for example, the voter is in the voting booth two ballots, one for the election of the Regional Council and the other for the choice of the senator? There are several possible models, it is true, but there is one that is not practicable, because it would go against the censorship of the Constitutional Court, like the Porcellum: it is a possible blocked list. There can be models with preferences and there can also be a model - which this amendment does not prohibit - for which the territory of the Region is divided into so many single-name colleges as there are senators to elect, reaching a system quite similar to that in force for the Senate until 1992. We will see if this is the solution, but today I would like to say that this is not prohibited. ENDRIZZI (M5S). It must be prescribed then. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u35	Senator Endrizzi, no one interrupted you when you intervened.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u36	Mr Fornaro (PD). Senator Endrizzi, I appreciated the tone of all your speeches, I also listened to them and I would like to reiterate, because perhaps it was distracted, that I just finished remembering the fact that in the 1948 Constitution there was no reference to an electoral law. In the Constitutions there are the principles and the electoral laws must be consistent with those principles and if we approve this amendment today we establish the principle of choice of citizens and any government, any majority, will have to answer [[Applause from the PD Group]] Finally, to conclude, Mr President, this innovation with regard to the text of the House must find a necessary and consequent place in the transitional rules. In keeping with your role and judgment, Mr President, I would like to make a few comments and, in order to lighten the climate, I must say that I greatly appreciated when, in a complex and complicated August, I answered a journalist who asked her if she was having problems with the fact that they were pulling her jacket, she replied that she had a reinforced jacket. Far be it from me to pull her jacket, however, since her opinion on the amendmentability of Article 39 has not yet been issued, I would like to offer an element to her assessment of the transitional rule and the systemic nature that it presents. The transitional rule, in fact, is not an article like the others, and in my opinion it is quite clear that Article 39 does not apply to the regulatory principle that you have used, with a choice that I agree, of non-modifiability after a double reading in conformity. Well, I believe that if we adopt this article and this amendment, a fundamental change will be introduced in the new text, which clearly requires intervention in the transitional rule. I therefore entrust this reflection to his thoughts. I conclude with the conviction that it is quite clear that, should the Presidency consider Article 39 to be amending, I am sure that the Government could not fail to consider the need for a clear and unambiguous change in order to avoid any doubt and allow electoral citizens, as quickly as possible, to choose their representatives by avoiding normative or worse cunning not worthy of a constitutional text. I therefore conclude with great serenity and with a high head, calling on my group's colleagues to vote on this amendment, an honest compromise, a solution that will give citizens the choice of regional senators in a Senate expression of territorial institutions. A good compromise, a fair way of working on a constitutional text that I hope will also apply in the continuation of our work today and in the coming days [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups) and Senator Bondi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u39	ZIZA (CoR). Mr President, we are at the heart of the amendment which, in fact, marks an important turning point in reforms. In other words, we are at the heart of the amendment which, in fact, has filled the pages of the newspapers throughout the summer. More than an amendment to the Constitution, as far as we are concerned it can be a congressional motion of the PD, because in our opinion this is a reform done exclusively within the Democratic Party. I am saying this because we have always had a clear position on this reform which, in fact, clearly alienates citizens from politics. Today a survey has been published in a daily newspaper that shows that more than 50% of Italian citizens do not intend to vote. I do not think that this reform can actually encourage citizens to vote again. Article 2 was very important if it had been amended by the direct election of senators. Actually, it wasn't meant to be done. He wanted to go on all summer discussing something that is not there, that is, direct election. The amendment to our examination says that there is no direct election of senators. You want to create with an artifice a Senate on whose real functions there is to really reflect. Maybe it'd be better to close it. You want to bring the mayors: well, many colleagues, many of us in their lives have been mayors and they know very well that there will never be time or the opportunity to do double work. The same goes for regional advisers, the real ones, not those who have recently lost credibility in politics. I repeat, it would certainly have been better to close it. I return for a minute to think of August 8 last year and those 183 votes that, in fact, marked the fundamental passage of the reforms. Well: our position as Conservatives and Reformists today and yesterday within Forza Italia has always been clear on the thinking of reforms and on the thinking of electoral law. This combination of Senate reform and electoral law will certainly continue to alienate citizens. We are pleased, and we are pleased, that many people who did not think like us yesterday and who, within the then Forza Italia, felt that our choice was wrong, today find themselves in our own positions and, in fact, appreciate our consistency on the issues that we wanted to put to the attention of the Government, the issues on which we would have liked to work in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and were not allowed, the issues for which we tabled the amendments and the Government did not listen to us. We are talking about the infrastructure equation between the North and the South, the possibility of including the primary by law for the election of deputies. All important issues on which we have not been given the opportunity to intervene. Dear Senator Gotor, the Constitution you were talking about had been written by several parties not by one. As for Senator Quagliariello, who has so much defended this reform, we, dear Senator, appreciate more his position of the last days we read in the newspapers than that of reforms. In conclusion, we will vote strongly against this amendment because, in fact, it does not allow the direct election of senators and we are convinced that it can be a first step for certain political forces to come together for the unity of the future Centre-Right. We are convinced that the referendum is the new battle to which we must address ourselves. [[Applause from the CoR Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u42	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, far from me wanting to reopen yesterday's controversy and put you in trouble before the Presidency Council on Monday, but it is only right that you remain in the record that the senator, or character, who refers to Card No 16, today does not have the dignity to stay out of this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Actually, I don't see him in the Chamber. CASTALDI (M5S). He came out now, when I asked for the floor. AIROLA (M5S). But what answer is that? [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u43	At the moment, however, I have to say that he is not here.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u44	He asked the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Senator Finocchiaro, to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday was a difficult day for all of us to be mortifying. But yesterday, and also this morning, these are days in which, perhaps with evidence that we had not recorded so far, the Senate really discussed the merit of this reform, discussing Article 2, which is certainly an architrave of the reform, because it fully describes, and together, the nature and composition of the Senate and, therefore, the ways of its formation. There is a data from which we cannot ignore, and it is that of the second paragraph of Article 57, which reproduces the letter of Article 2, according to which the Regional Councils elect the senators as their members. This fact, I say to my colleague De Petris and also to my colleague De Cristofaro, whose speeches I greatly appreciated and on which I will return, confirms, as Senator Quagliariello (and I could not add anything to what he said), that the choice made is a choice that provides that the Senate is the place of representation of the territorial institutions and that its composition is entrusted to regional councillors and mayors. It's a distant tradition. It is a scientific and political culture that has unfolded over the decades that has led Parliament, at first and second reading, to opt for a Senate representative of territorial institutions. I do not want to remind you here of the debate in the constituent Assembly but, if I were to give some more recent examples, I could refer to the working group made up of President Napolitano, of which Mr Mauro was a member, who decided, and decidedly, for a Senate representative of the territorial institutions elected by second degree. And I can also give other examples. I am referring to the 'purple draft', which Parliament has dealt with in previous years. So a thought, a culture, a system that is already present, and with great force, in the debate of the Constitution, today leads us to this choice. Of course, in the course of the debate, at first reading in particular but also in the Chamber, different models were compared, as Mr Quagliariello said very well. One was the most expensive model of the SEL Group, that of a Senate that was directly elected, therefore without the transition to the Regional Council, and that had functions of counterweight to the weight of the majority. It is a hypothesis that many people have contested, starting with me. Obviously, the term "contested" is a word that does not want to be aggressive, but very clear at the moment when it notes that a Senate of this kind, as Senator Quagliariello said, is not traceable in other ordinances. Moreover, frankly, for those who care about the need to create a counterweight to an established political chamber, as long as there is this electoral law, with a majority method, the solution cannot be a Senate made up of ninety-five senators elected with a proportional method. This is unrealistic - I repeat: it is unrealistic - and in any case it belongs to an internal debate, since first the Senate and then the Chamber of Deputies have already chosen: the Senate that we want to introduce into the order, with the counterweight in my opinion much more vigorous than the representation of the governments of the territories, is the Senate representative of the territorial autonomy. But was this just a defeat? I would like to address my fellow Members who have become attached and continue to insist on the idea of the Senate model that Mr De Petris, Mr De Cristofaro and other colleagues who have spoken during the debate have presented to us. So it was just a defeat? I believe not, because, however, this questioning no longer about the different nature of the models, but about the fact that there can and should be a full involvement of citizens in the definition of individualities, in the choice of subjects, regional advisers, who will compose the Senate, has remained alive. He has remained so alive that today we are debating an amendment containing the expression "in accordance with the choices made by the electorate". This expression may be exposed to some lexical criticism, perhaps, but certainly not to a critique of ambiguity. If I use the expression "double conform" everyone knows that it means identical text [[Applause from the PD Group]] and this is not even a novelty for our order. Yesterday Mr Chiti reminded us of the application of the so-called Tatarellum Act, whereby the Regional Council elected a President who had been chosen directly by the voters. This remains a "living" requirement, which, beyond the nature of the Senate models, still strongly trusts in the choice of voters. This choice will be subject to a second-degree election, Mr De Cristofaro, because this is what is written in Article 1 and Article 2 of the draft law under consideration, but there is no doubt that the choice made by the Regional Councils will be consistent with that indication, which comes from the voters. This absolutely does not want to sound, in any way, like a criticism, but let me say that, frankly, I would have expected that the effort made throughout this time, to keep alive this need for direct participation of citizens, would win much more those who, on the other hand, have shown themselves to be critical today. I say this also for another reason, addressing my colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, who have often referred to the principle of contradictive nemine: also that formulation, which some consider unelegant and non-fluid, could have been another, had we all agreed [[Applause from the PDe Group of Senators Di Biagio and Zeller]] on the fact that this was not the defeat of a part, but the will to gather a deep sense, which had gone through the political debate between us. So this is a transaction? Yes, of course: it's a transaction and none of us have ever made it mystery. Let me say that I cannot hide - I would be hypocritical if I did so - the satisfaction of the fact that all my party and the majority come together to this end. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] I find this to be a political result that is not irrelevant, compared to the recognition of such an important change. So, the law has to be done? Of course he has to do it! Of course you have to do it and you have to do it as soon as possible! It must also be said, however, that many of the objections raised in this House are fully satisfied with the transitional rules laid down by law. I'd just like to make two more notations. Sometimes we walk thinking a little bit about the myth of what has been behind us. We do well, because this can only be an incentive to do better. However, I would like to remind my colleagues that the transition from one system to another is always costly and tiring. I reread yesterday the third transitional provision of the Constitution of the Italian Republic, of which I mention only the first part of the first paragraph, which is very long: For the first composition of the Senate of the Republic are appointed senators, by decree of the President of the Republic, the deputies of the Constitutional Assembly who possess the legal requirements to be senators. Among these requirements I would like to re-read one, which seems significant to me: "that... they served the sentence of imprisonment not less than five years, following the sentence of the special fascist court for the defence of the State." What do I mean? Even in the face of the epos represented by our memory of the Constitution and its approval, we cannot forget the fatigue and that which today, if we read without knowing anything, might seem to us a contradiction: the first Senate was a Senate of appointed, who were one hundred and six. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] Of course, we are not Terracini, we are not Calamandrei, we are not Dead, we are not Ruini, we are not Togliatti, we are not De Gasperi: there is no doubt about this and we must not continue to prove it. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] Someone referred to the failure of the second-degree elections in the Provinces. Senator De Cristofaro, none of us have our eyes closed like blind kittens: we know that it is a transitional rule, necessary because with the approval of this text we have not yet constitutionally cleaned the Provinces; I repeat, however, that it is a transitional discipline. So, ladies and gentlemen, our effort must be - as President Quagliariello said very well - all moved forward, to approve these reforms, and the law that will give them implementation and to look forward to the completion of the system. I am thinking of the need to implement Article 49 of the Constitution, for example, and so much more that we can do. Every time we stop on the edge and - let me say - use instrumental arguments, sometimes even of controversy that lasts today and ends at 13, but, to me it seems wrong and inadequate, because, like it or not, we have to be constituent legislators in this legislature. I think that we must try to honour him as best we can, as well as in the difficulties of our political relations on certain issues. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and AL-A groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u46	We shall therefore proceed to the vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It was requested yesterday for the whole of Article 2, but today we reiterate our support, Senator Santangelo. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.204, tabled by Senator Finocchiaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and AL-A groups.).]] Amendments 2,906 to 2,604 are precluded or inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u49	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I give my fellow Members time to applaud. Usually he applauds on beautiful occasions, but also not beautiful. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes... VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. What? But do you have to review this too? CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I am saying that I am waiting for the end of this applause with which they accompany the coffin of the Constitution. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're welcome. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 100 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, the prescribed number of senators lodges five amendments, of which I will now hand over the originals, which are a consequence and related to amendment 2,204 adopted just now, signed by Senator Finocchiaro. They are amendments - and I ask Senator Fornaro to give me some attention - to Rule 39 (1) on which you, Mr President, have not yet expressed your views on whether or not we are going to be able to do so, because we have not yet arrived. These amendments are closely related to the amendment that has just been adopted because they provide for the introduction of a transitional form, pending the entry into force of the law referred to in the sixth paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution as amended, so that in the first designation, the choice of senators takes place in accordance with the wishes expressed by voters on the occasion of the last renewal of the same bodies, in office on the date of the entry into force of the constitutional law. There are five different wordings which I shall now, Mr President, deposit for your assessments and which, if you will allow me, I would like to explain in order to explain their content. Their meaning is in fact very important, as they allow to identify senators in a certain way in the first appointment. Our Group has suggested, also on the basis of what President Finocchiaro has just said - to which I appeal, hoping in his own interest - that, as was done at the time of the first Constitution, a method should be envisaged in the appointment of the first senators who are not left to the freedom of regional councillors (in view of what we have said about regional councillors), but that it is certain. In our amendments we have therefore suggested a number of methods - but there may be others - such as identifying regional councillors who at the last elections had the highest number of preferences and the mayor who obtained the highest number of votes in percentage terms in his own municipality at the first round. These proposals would make it possible to identify in a certain way and now, and not to leave to the discretion of the regional councillors, the ways in which senators are identified. We repeat: it is a cherry that we would like to put on this cake, but it does not transform the nature of the object that we are facing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u50	Excuse me, Senator Crimi, for me to understand: are they amendments to Rule 39? CRIMI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll evaluate them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u53	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, it was precisely the question I wanted to ask Mr Crimes: if they were amendments to Article 2 or to 39. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He replied to me that I am in Article 39. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I also asked for the floor after Mr Fornaro's intervention. I did not appreciate the first part, but surely the final part is appreciable and I think it opens to a reflection. You, Mr President - and I also say this by self-damaging me - have declared inadmissible all amendments containing the term 'in consequence' referring to interventions on Article 2 which would affect Article 39 (1). I admit that this is a formally correct decision because, there being only the text of the House, the amendments to Article 39 would have been declared inadmissible because that was the text to which we had to stick. In the light of the adoption of the Finocchiaro amendment, which introduces the concept of correlation with the expression of the citizens' vote, it is clear that at this point Article 39 says something completely different. In essence, while in Article 2 we say that the regional councillors elect senators who have been nominated or voted - as you wish - by the citizens, in paragraph 1 of Article 39 it is said that the regional councillors elect senators from among the regional councillors themselves and from among the mayors. It is clear, at this point, that there is a contrast between Article 2, as amended by the Finocchiaro amendment - in it it is expected that there should be an indication, a vote by the citizens - and a transitional rule which, on the other hand, says that the Regional Councils elect in total, absolute autonomy. After his statement on the admissibility of amendments tabled pursuant to Rule 100 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, should they be accepted, I think it is appropriate that they can be viewed by everyone. I believe that in Mr Fornaro's speech there was also a reminder - I do not know how much it can be done and how it should be done - of a form of consecutive coordination between what Article 2 lays down today, after we have voted on it, and what paragraph 1 of Article 39 says in contrast. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u56	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like a clarification from President Calderoli on the term 'coordination'. Here we are not - I believe - simply determining an automatic and formal domino to restore details. It is also a question of clarifying the legislative will and then determining an unequivocal will of this House. There is a contrast of content, and not just of form, which is why I believe that it cannot be resolved except through an amendment phase. Moreover, considering also the reference to the nature of the Constitution, which would establish mere principles and not details, we could then write that the senators are about a hundred. On the other hand, the Constitution must establish clearly, because the principle must be prescriptive and not say "yes" can or even - as I have heard - "is not forbidden", "does not prevent" from then making the law in one way or another. Otherwise, it would mean - as I have tried to say - that the Finocchiaro amendment had no regulatory scope. Now we are faced with a clear twist that must be resolved through an amendment phase, interrupting the work and resolving this aspect.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u59	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, it is clear that we are now faced with a very serious issue and the request made by Senator Crimi is, of course, even more so than the previous one on Article 1, which is based on it. Before the adoption of amendment 2.204, in the speeches by both Senator Fornaro and Senator Finocchiaro, we were told - I say this because they are their words, among other things addressed directly to us - the force of the actual change that would have introduced this amendment. For the truth, I had limited myself to describing the call to the choice of citizens by speaking, with a nice expression, of "perfume of direct election," while Senator Quagliariello actually spoke of "contamination" as if popular sovereignty were now the bearer of viruses and germs. Evidently, we have now reached this point. It is in fact, however, that Senator Fornaro, Mr President, has put a serious question to you. It is clear that, after approval, there is a contrast between the transitional rule and the Article. Since you had declared unacceptable a number of amendments which contained the term 'indeed', some of which were also tabled by our Group in Article 2, it is clear to everyone that it is absolutely necessary for you not only to reconsider those statements of inadmissibility, but also to give today, without delay, an indication that allows the Assembly to reopen an amending phase on Rule 39. If this were not to happen, Mr President - and not because of your responsibility, because you have already taken the lead - and if it were not to be achieved even at the start of our work - but the time, however, we should have in order to be able to make amendments - it is clear that we mothers and fathers would not do our job well. Senator Finocchiaro has often referred to the transitional rules and the constituent Assembly, but I do not think that at the time there would have been such a contrast between the article and the transitional rule itself. If this does not happen and the transitional rule remains what it is, because the amending and therefore amending phase would not be reopened, we would find ourselves faced with the proven proof that the amendment we have just voted does not change in anything either the nature or the reference to popular sovereignty and, therefore, the direct election and the choice of citizens. I therefore believe, Mr President, that a decision must be taken today.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u62	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I too would like to ask you to re-assess that fallacy of eligibility which was expressed - as you have already been correctly reminded - in relation to a text which, coming from the House, was strictly conditioning to us in relation to the possibility of amending it in this reading of the Senate. But - as you have been able to record and as we have also seen from the numbers, as well as heard from the important statements made by the majority in support of President Finocchiaro's amendment - the situation has changed in horas, and changes not only in form, but - alas - also strongly in substance. In fact, if the text coming from the House was based on a balance that we did not share, but what a balance it was, today that balance is no longer there. And there is a lame duck that risks heavily conditioning the continuation of our work in the combination of Article 2 and Article 39, with reference to that transitional rule which, of course, in the light of the amendment adopted, can and must change accordingly. We hope that, in that very place, we can really highlight what this amendment consists of, which is the call to the voter's will, as he points out: if it is only a contamination, as Mr Quagliariello has called it - and it seems to us very little - or if, as President Finocchiaro shows in his closing speech, just before the vote on his amendment, it is a way of moving forward. The risk - this is my opinion - is that, going so far, President Finocchiaro risks falling. Too far ahead, indeed. And it will go so far that no one will ever see the outcome of this political process, which - I come back to this - has found substance in the congressional thesis of the Democratic Party, those that my colleague Fornaro has previously expressed so well, reminding us also how this tribulation and anguish debate of the minority of his party eventually gave birth, as often happens in the mountains, a mouse. And that's all the mouse is here. But little mice can't fit in the Constitution. In the Constitution the terms, in addition to the principles, in which the constitutional dictation is mentioned, must be clear. In fact, if we were really to take an example from those who were seriously the constituent Fathers, we should disassemble and criticize the whole system of norms that we are going to approve, because it was unclear, confused and certainly not inspired by those simple and stony principles that, instead, the real constituent Fathers had at heart to write in Constitution. In the Constitution we do not turn so much around: either it is or it is not; in this case it is not. But the formal change that has been made, even if it has little or nothing in substance, I think it would suggest to you, Mr President, on the basis of the request now made by all the oppositions to review the admissibility of those texts, or to be able to accept today, before the vote on Article 2, the possibility of amending, of course, for the related part (so exclusively for those texts as a result), in order to understand how it is meant accordingly and how we can dignifiedly and more precisely write it in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u65	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to support the requests made by my fellow Members. Undoubtedly, the adoption of the amendment by Senator Finocchiaro changes the appearance of the measure. Before there was no popular involvement in the election of senators, while today there is, but you don't understand exactly what it is. And precisely for this reason, it seems appropriate, especially since we are not talking about any text but about the Constitution (as someone said, it is the Constitution that will be studied in schools and to which our military will swear loyalty at the price of their lives), write it well, of course according to the assessments that the majority of the Senate will make, and not a pre-constitutional majority. We must, however, give a way of expressing our views on these issues: I am merely setting an example of what is indicated in Amendment 2.602 in relation to the amendments which should be voted on accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u68	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly just to say that the adoption of the amendment by Senator Finocchiaro increases confusion rather than diminishes it. It would therefore be appropriate to allow Parliament, with the leverage of eligibility, to remedy the failures caused by this approval.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u69	Let's continue the work. Amendment 2.607 is precluded from the adoption of amendment 2.204, only in the last period, by the words: "The law of the State" until the end.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u72	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, we asked you a question. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I reserve the right to solve it. I have to examine the amendments. ENDRIZZI (M5S). As Senator Malan said a moment ago, the admissibility of amendments containing the term "i.e. " should be revised at this point. So, proceed with the votes without having...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u73	As this issue concerns Article 39, we still have to complete it. Article 2 has not yet been approved; there may be a non-approval of it which would bring this matter down. The first step must be to proceed with Article 2. Since the matter concerns Article 39, the assessment will have to be made after the adoption of Article 2, and I reserve the right to do so after that. That's the point. Article 2 may not be approved and, therefore, the problem would not arise. We have not yet fully approved Article 2. ENDRIZZI (M5S). But we are in danger of adopting Article 2 because we have prevented the vote on certain parts of the amendments which, on the other hand, we might discover... PRESIDENT. - The debate is They relate to Article 39, which has not been amended, and must be assessed after the approval of Article 2. Those amendments were declared inadmissible. The matter will be re-evaluated for the purposes of Article 39. ENDRIZZI (M5S). The vote on Article 2 would then be deleted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I said I'm gonna re-evaluate. Article 2 must be approved first. I do not dispute the admissibility of all the amendments which refer to the term 'in consequence', and this seems obvious to me, because they have already been declared inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u76	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since the problem is not irrelevant, as is always the case with ordinary law, the examination of Article 2 should be suspended pending the decision on Article 39. It is not necessary to rush forward to close Article 2, which, because of the forms and ways in which amendment 2.204, would not allow us to resubmit proposals for amendment to Article 39. Mr President, I would ask you to consider carefully what we are doing. We do not need to close Article 2 this morning at all costs. The change that takes place on Article 2 after the adoption of the amendment by Senator Finocchiaro clearly affects Article 39 and, therefore, the two problems are related. We cannot close the debate, conclude Article 2 and postpone the evaluation of Article 39. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u77	Maybe I wasn't clear. I have decided to move forward because, if Article 2 is not adopted, there is no problem with the amendments proposed in Article 39. By direct correlation, the question can be assessed only if, as a whole, the paragraph that has been approved can be applied in the whole of Article 2. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). That's not true. It's the opposite. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I didn't. However, those amendments have been declared inadmissible, and so let us move on. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). That's exactly what this is all about. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. My decision is that the amendments to Article 39, which are in any case related to a paragraph of Article 2 (which still needs to be approved), will be assessed after the adoption of that Article. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). What if all of them are inadmissible in Article 39? We can't risk it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us proceed with the votes. I think it is clear that if Article 2 is not adopted, the problem does not arise.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u80	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have said that we must maintain a gentlemen's agreement, but it facilitates it, otherwise it is always the usual situation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In my opinion, it is not a question of gentlemen's agreement, but of logic relating to the approval of Article 2. VOLPI (LN-Aut). I'm sorry, Mr. President, but that's not what I'm talking about. I am referring to the fact that you have been informed four times that I have asked for the floor. She says I'm always angry. But, if every time you have to do what gestures to take the floor, the gentlemen's agreement doesn't fit. Mr President, of course some Members have already made a few comments and, compared to the question that has been put to you, I think that what President Romani has said is entirely on the subject. Firstly, the amendment tabled by President Finocchiaro has undoubtedly changed a situation of legislative consequence which has a profound sense. And I would like to tell you what President Romani has already said. Given that you do not intend to allow an intervention on amendments which you have already excluded - in my opinion, it is a mistake - but if, at the same time as we were to find, within Article 39, a solution which would imply a possible need to amend Article 2, I wonder why you should conclude today's examination of Article 2. Mine is a non-political intervention, but it is dictated by the need to keep an option open which could subsequently be contrary to what we are doing today. Given that there is an intervention to be made on Article 39 in order to establish a necessary transitional rule, whether or not we like the Finocchiaro amendment, why should it preclude everyone, even technically, the opportunity to return possibly with a correction standard on Article 2, telling us to conclude today the examination of that article? No one is telling colleagues in the majority that we must not conclude the examination of Article 2. We are saying that we are leaving a technical option which could have a legislative meaning when we close the examination of Article 39. It reopens the possibility of amending Article 2 in such a way that "themselves" can give meaning to Article 39. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but it does not seem to me that this proposal offers in itself something revolutionary or obstructive in relation to the continuation of the examination of the measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Taverna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u83	TONINI (PD). Mr President, we have approved an amendment to Article 2 and now we must move forward with the vote on the other amendments and on the same Article 2. Legitimately, colleagues from the 5 Star Movement have tabled amendments to Article 39, to the transitional rule, which are subject to its assessment with respect to eligibility. To vote first on the transitional rule which depends on a rule that we have not yet voted on, it seems to me frankly an arzygous one of which there is absolutely no need. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We therefore ask that we continue with the spirit with which we have constructively moved forward this morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u84	Among other things, Senator Calderoli had spoken of successive proposals for coordination and, therefore, had also advanced this possibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u87	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I agree with Senator Tonini that it is reasonable that we should also move on. However, since a very important amendment has just been voted on, I believe with reasonable certainty that Article 2 will be voted on, there is no doubt that it will not be voted on. I would therefore like to understand what will happen if it is voted on and if it is not voted on, which is also impossible. Therefore, if you take the decision now, with a brief suspension of the work, in one case and in the other you will still have the two options to tell us. It doesn't seem difficult or unreasonable. That is five minutes of your time and of the House. I believe that this text will be absolutely approved, triggering the consequences that my fellow Members have previously announced to you. That doesn't sound unreasonable.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u88	As Article 2 has not yet been adopted, I repeat what I have already said: there is no transitional provision for Article 39 in Article 2. The transitional rules are finally examined precisely because, when the amendments adopted are examined as a whole, the transitional rule is also assessed. But, if you do not see the overall amendments approved, it seems illogical and irrational to approve first something that may not even be necessary to evaluate later. We cannot continue this debate. This is my decision which seems logical and rational, as well as shared by Senator Calderoli who has made a further assessment for a possible proposal for subsequent coordination. Moreover, I have not yet been able to see the amending proposals that have been proposed as "in correlation." The direct correlation that requires the last period of Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure must be assessed as long as necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u91	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, then I would ask for confirmation and I would like to put forward a proposal. Senator Tonini has recognized the legitimacy of what we have proposed. It seems to me that it is clear from the debate - Senator Fornaro put this question first - that the Finocchiaro amendment opens up a situation to be healed. I understand that there is a willingness to open a new phase of amendment, the content of which will of course be permitted when the vote on Article 2 is reached. If there is this sharing and, therefore, the serene confidence that then this amending phase will be there, we have no objection to continuing the work. However, I would ask for confirmation of what has just been said. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi, to confirm, I can tell you that, in the reserve of assessment of your amendments, when it will be necessary... ENDRIZZI (M5S). But you could also reject all our amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I want to evaluate them, but you have to give me time to do it. Moreover, for the purposes of eligibility on Article 39... ENDRIZZI (M5S). But Article 39 needs to be revised. And that's enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u92	I didn't say he needs to be seen again. I have just said that Article 39 has been amended in some parts, so we need an overall assessment of the situation, which I reserve the right to do. Let us now proceed with the votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.607.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u95	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to understand why you do not put Amendment 2.602 to the vote, since it was deemed admissible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is precluded by the adoption of amendment 2.204. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Then we need to know the foreclosures, President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u96	I have already said that the subsequent amendments to Amendment 2.607 are foreclosed. Therefore, between foreclosures and inadmissibility, we must vote on the first part of amendment 2.607, because the second part is precluded by the adoption of amendment 2.204. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.607, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators, for the part that is not precluded. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u99	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out, in order to remain in the Minutes, that Mr Di Biagio has voted for himself and for his absent colleague on his left.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u100	I invite the Senator Secretary to withdraw the ballots of the absent senators. MARTON (M5S). Shame on you, Senator Di Biagio! Mr President, you must take disciplinary action. SANTANGELO (M5S). This is a scam! They cheat, and then it's always our fault! CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, take note and cancel those votes! They don't even have to take the diary money for the presence of all the votes that Biagio's senator did for them! AIROLA (M5S). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We will also evaluate this in the Presidency Council. Now I invite you to calm down. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Amendment 2.9 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.10, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,734 to 2,2833c are inadmissible. The G2.1c agenda is taken up by amendment 2.204. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u103	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, my point of order is a point of order, but it is also a serious call for reflection. On the basis of Rule 103 of our Rules of Procedure, the amendment can be chosen, and you will assess the eligibility which, of course, will change, with regard to the adoption of the amendment, once we have voted on Article 2, because it is correct what you have proposed to us. I remind everyone, and myself, that before the final vote on a bill, the President, the representative of the Government or each senator can draw the attention of the Senate to the corrections of form and the changes of coordination that appear appropriate, as well as to those provisions already approved that seem in conflict with each other or irreconcilable. Paragraph 1 of Article 103 reads as follows. It seems clear to me that at this moment, after the adoption of Article 2, Article 39 is in a situation of irreconcilability with what we are going to approve. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u106	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, we have arrived. The House's examination of the infamous Article 2 of the Constitutional Bill concludes. We spent the whole summer, between newspapers and television programs, in the company of the debate entirely internal to the PD on the elective Senate yes or elective Senate no, as if it were a congressional motion; a permanent congress that ended with the peace made, indeed, with a simple agreement of non belligerence between the majority and the minority of the PD. But we are not talking about a congressional motion, ladies and gentlemen, but about the reform of our Constitutional Charter. That's the point. Can we change the pillar, the most important architrave of our fragile democratic system in this way? The most paradoxical fact, then, is that this defiance, in the method, but also in the merit (and I will come to it later) comes from the same party that has spent the last few years, to explain to us, often wisely, many times with very strong tones, that we have the most beautiful Constitution in the world and that must be protected, in spite of who, like you, President Grasso, or as repeatedly stated also by President Mattarella, had wished for a broad sharing of the changes, among all the political forces of majority and opposition of Parliament, and not only of the PD. We Conservatives and Reformists do not care about the internal balances of the majority parties (nor the PD, nor any other party), as I believe it does not matter a damn thing to the vast majority of Italians either. And I come to the point, Mr President. Our Group has proposed for the entire Boschi bill, 161 amendments, few and merit - especially with respect to the total number of those tabled - to make our contribution of ideas and proposals to be added to the discussion. Too bad no one noticed. On Article 2, on the subject of the electivity of the future Senate, we believed, and we believe, that the snatch of the ballot from the hands of the Italians was and is wrong. That is what we are talking about, in spite of the Finocchiaro amendment, or perhaps because of this amendment. The question of the involvement of citizens at all levels of the institutions, especially at this stage of the dramatic crisis of the current system of political representation, is crucial to us. For us Conservatives and Reformists it is better to abolish this Senate, if you really do not want the citizens to choose their representatives directly. On the other hand, countries such as Sweden, Scotland, Ukraine, Portugal, Israel, Denmark, Greece and Norway live peacefully in a monocameralist regime: we could do it too, perhaps using counterweights, such as strengthening the role of the President of the Republic, as we have proposed in some of the articles in the draft law under consideration. We are so convinced that citizens should be involved as much as possible, through direct elections, that we have proposed, even if it has been promptly rejected by this House, to deliver to them another card: that of the primaries. It only consoles us that, in that vote, the majority votes were really few: they were, in fact, just enough to cross the threshold. We intend, in fact, to deliver to the citizens, however, also in this formula and mode, the possibility of using that card, perhaps through the primary ones: those well regulated, as they do for many years in more advanced and civilized countries than we, from the point of view of democracy. And I'm referring not to the primaries of PD, but to those provided for by good laws. For us the primary is not a mantra, but a further form of democratic participation to be enhanced: participation and not contamination. Let's open the doors of our institutions, let's let all Italians participate as much as possible, with new ideas and people. And I address myself to you, colleagues in the PD and in particular to the so-called "renziani" who, thanks to this instrument, you brought first to the summit of the party, and then to the leadership of the government, without going through the election of the Italians, the current President of the Council. Why did this happen? I answer myself, unfortunately: constitutionalizing the primaries meant making them serious, not in a "farlocco" way. That's probably why you failed them. Another key issue for the lives of all citizens, on which all political forces agree, at least when they participate in TV talk shows, is the unbearable burden of fiscal pressure. Mr President, do we or do we not live in a country vexed by the abnormal burden of taxation? Yes, 100% of Italians would say so. Our proposal, which you, Mr President, considered unacceptable - and this I consider to be a serious mistake, from the formal and substantive point of view - was as simple as revolutionary as it was in its simplicity: just as we introduced balance in the Constitution, so we owe the Italians the incorporation in the Constitution of a ceiling of 40% to the overall tax burden applied to citizens, taken from the pockets of citizens, even in these dramatic moments of crisis. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]] This is what would really have represented a real shield in defence of citizens, against taxing governments, to force them, without if and without but, to take the path of the net cut to the monstrous public expenditure, the inefficient one, and not that of the services, instead of resorting to the practice of putting their hands in the pockets of the Italian taxpayers. It would be a very important novelty for our country, but it would not be as innovative if it were applied today in other countries, where it is applied. For them it is not innovative: in Germany it is not innovative and neither is it in England. A few months ago, we recalled the anniversary of the eight hundred years of the Magna Carta - and I am sorry that Mr Quagliariello is not present, who intends to do so - that, in addition to recognizing and introducing for the first time the inviolability of individual rights, even if limited to some social classes, introduced the prohibition for the king to impose other taxes autonomously, without the approval of the Common Council of the Kingdom. This enormous progress, considering the historical period, was due to the fact that the King of England, John Senzaterra, had imposed heavy taxes on his subjects on the occasion of his wars against France. Already then, then, there was the issue of putting a stop to the indiscriminate increase in taxes, as we humbly tried to do in this House, proposing the tax ceiling in the Constitution to Article 1 and the senators' electivity to Article 2, wherever they come from. The heavy taxes imposed by the subjects, the rebellion against the king and the prohibition of imposing other taxes: all this today, in the modern age, how can be achieved, if not through the election and the choice of its representatives, indicating them clearly, without leaving them instead not so much to the regional councils, but to the bureaucratic apparatuses of what remains of the parties in this country? For us the passwords are still those written in that Magna Carta: perhaps it is the case that today, here, we recover the spirit of that historical period, we make it ours and apply it to our debate these days, before it is too late, following the spirit of the Constituents who brought clear, well-written and understandable principles to all Italians in that very important Constitution. That example should be followed, but since it is not for all the above reasons that I am expressing on behalf of the Group of Conservatives and Reformists, just as on 8 August last year, a firm no to Article 2. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u109	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, Article 2 is perfectly consistent with the powers conferred on the new Senate. In my previous speeches I had the opportunity to say that the new Senate will be a sort of wrecked organ: little useful, little incisive in the life of the Republic and therefore evoked, already from the act of its design, to its definitive elimination. Its composition goes well with the attitude of the new Senate. A golden rule of the mechanisms that must work and be effective is indicated by English scholars with the term make it simple, but here simply, frankly, there is very, very little, starting from the normative syntax. To read it, Article 2 also looks more like a decree-law than a constitutional text, with a patchwork of references. I remember reading that the present Constitution was revised and adjusted, from a formal point of view, by Concetto Marchesi. I wonder if only one Italian and Latin-speaking scholar would be enough to fix what will come out of our work. Frankly, I'm afraid not. And you know why? The Constitution of 1947 is the result of a complete synthesis. Yes, there were also opposing positions and there was also a great job to get to writing, but the agreement eventually reached, because it was strongly sought and wanted, and it was an agreement between several parties that tried to create the house within which to place all the Italians at the end of the war. Moreover, such profound changes to a Constitution, so much so that we can talk about a new Charter, are produced when there is a break in the history of a country, while the attempt that we are working on now is more a victorious round in a struggle that lasts - as many have remembered - for tens of years, between a part that wants Italy governed without too many popular controls and other parts that, instead, to those controls are affectionate. When you make an attempt without reaching a synthesis, you arrive at transactions and compromises, but the lack of synthesis cannot be concealed: it comes out a sort of mad mayonnaise, in which there are all the lumps and you cannot hide. I'll explain. From this bill comes out a sort of Eclite Senate, where everything flows, but not in a fluid way, because the Senate that will come will not be, or would not be if the referendum filter passed, homogeneous. It would be composed of mayors and regional councillors, but not for all regions in the same way, because some would necessarily be under-represented to give space to other over-represented ones. And I think of Trentino Alto-Adige, which will find four representatives, two for the Province of Bolzano and two for that of Trento, which, by the way, explains the affection and support for the attempted attempt by colleagues of the Autonomous Group. But in the Senate there will also be illustrious personalities, which is to be understood, if someone wanted to explain it to us, what they will do inside a representative Chamber of territorial institutions. Then there will be the senators for life who - thank God - are alive and in good health and to whom I wish a long career continuation within this organ, which however is no longer known what it will know. Some say that there are no precedents of what we propose, neither in our order, nor in others. But why, of a Senate so made, like what we are producing, in what order are there precedents? I went to look and certainly there are none in the Bundesrat, in which the States are represented and, with mandate, the Lander Governments; as there are none in the French Senate, which is elected by second-level election but by a huge audience of voters (the great voters are almost 200,000 in France) and has equal competences with respect to the National Assembly. Do you know what organ the Senate we're building might look like? At the Imperial Diet but, beware, in its medieval structure. In fact, there were bishops, city representatives, electoral princes, kings, a bit of everything. And somehow it looks like what we're building, except for the fact that even in the Imperial Diet they had a mandate bond, while our senators won't have it. So what do these people have to do with each other? They will be united by being representatives of the parties; but, attention, not of all parties, because, as we are writing this rule, minorities will be intrinsically excluded from the Senate for the mechanisms with which it will be built. Therefore, we will have that wreck I was talking about, in which, going from election to election, with the majority principle within the mechanism, in an ultra-majoritarian screwing, the more and less crypto-authoritarian attitude of this constitutional revision is confirmed. I'll make one final point. Whenever I listen to my colleague Finocchiaro I understand what Gorgia da Lentini was supposed to be like. I really like how you argue; it seems to be the application of Quintiliano, for tones, for the very clear way of expressing what you want to say, but I do not agree. As I said at the beginning of the intervention, the 1947 Constitution provided for transitional rules... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. I said that there were transitional rules there too, of course, but we were at a time of break in front of a new beginning: there were the Dead, the Calamandrei, who are no longer there, because this is not a new beginning. What the majority proposes to us with its majority constitution - because this is a majority constitution - is the substantial stabilisation of the balances that have been badly created in these fifty years of operation of the Republic, and that is what I think should be avoided at all costs. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Bocchino and Vacciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u112	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the very heated debate on the direct or non-direct electivity of senators has never been so passionate to us self-employed. For us the fundamental points are the functions that will remain in this Senate, and above all the basic approach, namely the fact that the future Senate will have to be the Chamber of Self-Government and that the senators will have to be the representatives of the Regions, the Autonomous Provinces and the Municipalities, therefore bearers of the interests of these territories; which, in our opinion, would not be reconciled with a direct election. We would have preferred the Bundesrat solution also because in this way the Senate could have assumed the functions of the State-Regions Conference, which with the model chosen here must necessarily remain alive. We would also have preferred the compulsory presence of regional governors and not just the eventual presence of regional governors. Already at first reading we voted in favour of Article 2 - the text was then confirmed to the House - also because we believe that a second-degree election always remains an election and nevertheless gives a strong legitimacy to these senators also in this way, as has also been successfully experienced in other Member States of the European Union. The solution we have now adopted - we note this - will enhance the choice of senators by voters, but it will not only complicate the approval of the law implementing this Article 2. Overall, however, the Group for Autonomies believes that it can give a positive opinion on this text and therefore announces the Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) -PSI-MAIE Mixed-IPI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u115	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I cannot hide a state of great discomfort, because having gone through legal studies in the youth and having deepened one of the most interesting passages in our Republic, that is, the constituent phase, I thought it was extremely noble and that a person who was lucky enough to participate in this process had a great pride to pass on to his children and grandchildren. I believe that none of us, honestly, in this House, is proud of the work he is doing to the extent that he can proudly pass it on to his descendants. We have all been trapped a little bit in a process of concentration of powers that - I dare say - is not so much in itinerant, but is already in place, because here we have already known the figure of the dux, a dux that is ruling this country without more internal contrast, with little opposition or with limited powers of the external opposition, which obliges to modify the State, the Constitution of the country, its fundamental law, establishing in what way and in what times; God lives, to this Parliament has remained only to comply with the will of the dux, who said he wanted to approve his plan by 13 or 15 October. Recalling the phase that led to the creation of the Constitution, I recall that everyone came out satisfied by the general framework that resulted, because the Constitution is also called the Fundamental Charter, or Social Pact, and a social pact is drawn up among all the associates. All the associates participate in the construction of the great rules and fundamental principles in which they are recognized and which everyone is subject to because then everyone is protected by the great fundamental Charter. Here we have ripped out pages, replaced pieces, but the most important thing is that perhaps part of this House will be able to say that it is recognized in the fundamental Charter, but the majority, which is mainly in the country, is no longer recognized in this fundamental Charter. This is the great disaster that is taking place in this House, in a total shame, in complete relaxation, as if the responsibilities were of the plenum and did not belong to each of us who supinely decides to accept everything. Clearly I speak in the plural maiestatis, but it concerns more the majority, because the oppositions continue to do everything they can to highlight this picture of twists. I do not know how many had the opportunity to deepen what was a genius of Colonel Gaddafi in realizing Giamahiria, which was a system that allowed only one man to govern the country democratically. In Giamahiria representatives of municipalities, provinces and Parliament were elected in the second instance. But no one had real power, to the point that if you go to read what the "Wikipedia" says, about the Libyan Jamahiria, you will find that it is a system of great populist and authoritarian concentration of power where there was no separation of powers. Exactly what we're about to do. There is no separation of powers if an electoral law allows a party to be a majority in the only Chamber (a monocameralism in all respects). Trust and budget are the only acts that allow you to control the Executive, to give it confidence or not; a single-colored Executive formed on the list prepacked by the party secretary, with blocked lists, where two thirds of these people respond to party logic or loyalty to the leader. Have we understood what a transformation of Parliament we have made? That Parliament, by a majority that is loyal to the leader, will elect an executive by force of one colour. That majority will propose the President of the House and Senate, elect one of its Presidents of the Republic. But do the oppositions think that in this context they can live peacefully the debate, the confrontation, the parliamentary dialectic? It will be a Vietnam, the next real Vietnamese parliaments, because at institutional war one responds with the means available, that is, with another war with the parliamentary instruments. But who enjoys that possibility, will have the presidents and the regulations on their side and will crush all kinds of opposition, of willingness to oppose. We crushed old principles or put them in the basement. What did we say yesterday? You will say to me: "But who cares what was said yesterday!" Until yesterday we said it was very important to establish... president. Begin at the end of your speech, Senator Divine. DIVINE (LN-Aut). But I do not think I have passed the ten minutes, Mr President. The old principle of compatibility - let me say a little prosaic, Mr President - was: an ass, a chair; or rather, forgive me: a butt, a chair. Now even that principle is no longer valid, we have transformed it. And yet we fought for it for years. The mayor will now be able to be a Member of Parliament and the regional councillor will also be a Member of Parliament. We have also undermined that principle which we thought was logical, transparent and functional for the institutions to function. There is an incompatibility between what is written in the second paragraph, in the fifth paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution (and then in the sixth paragraph). Senators are elected from among the members of the Regional Council: within them, this is what is written. It is now softened by an amendment by my colleague Mr Finocchiaro, who adds: "in accordance with the choices made by the electorate". Therefore, in the first line, they are elected within them, and it is not raining on them; because the amendment made by Mr Finocchiaro, who pretends to accept an instance that comes from his Group and probably also from many others, will come into force, we will have to wait for a second election of the Senate. But I'm gonna throw it over there because it's not a matter of goat wool... I invite you to conclude. DIVINE (LN-Aut). I shall conclude, Mr President. In 2018 Trentino will go to elections (but I think Lombardy, Sicily and some other regions also go there). If by 2018 the national law referred to in paragraph 6 of Article 57 of the Constitution is not implemented, how will the senators be elected? Will the Regions have the power to intervene even in the absence of the national norm? It would almost be a prevarication. If, however, they did not make their elections, not responding to the dictates of Senator Finocchiaro's amendment ('in accordance with the choices made by the voters') will the election of that body that does not respect a constitutional dictate be constitutional? Already here is a juniper from which we will hardly get out. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. DIVINE (LN-Aut). I'm gonna go finish. There has been little talk here of Bulgarian edict. There has also been a reform of the RAI: that Chamber, which will operate in a monocameral regime, with that Government, which will be monocolored, put together, will have the faculty, according to the reform of the RAI, to appoint six out of seven members, that is the majority of the board of directors of the public radio and television system; which means to name all the directors of the news and all the directors of network. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. DIVINE (LN-Aut). There will, therefore, be a President of the Republic who, with that single-colored Chamber, will issue all the high judicial offices, which will basically control all public information: can we call it the regime? Can we call it "democracture"? What track we've got on! We still trust in a shot of kidneys, of pride, of that component that today is part of those important numbers of the majority to avoid this disaster. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The League will obviously not be able to vote on this article and will remain only in the acts that few, with the energies they had, prevented this country from slipping towards a new dictatorship. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u118	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, mine is a very clear and convincing no on this Article 2, for very simple reasons. The first reason, the most important, is that, as amended by the Finocchiaro amendment, Article 2 presents itself as an exercise of pure nominalism: new names are given to problems that have not been able, that there has not been the courage, that there has not been the intention to resolve. And I'll explain why. The basic problem of Article 2 - I repeat - is not the question of electivity; the problem is not to hang on the question of electivity, but it is, basically, to try to understand if we want a Chamber of Territories or if we want, instead, a Chamber that guarantees a transition from a perfect bicameralism to a differentiated bicameralism. We have neither the one nor the other: we do not have the Chamber of Territories, because objectively it is not a Bundesrat, it is not a place where the State negotiates with the Regions, there is not the possibility, for those who represent the territories, to represent them really (rather there is a generic assignment of the Nation through mechanisms, more or less celebrated, of electivity); but we do not even have a differentiated Chamber. On the contrary, I would like to point out to all those who will find themselves in this situation that, when they have to deal with the ascendant process in terms of subsidiarity in their relationship with the European Union, they will always be asked this question: who do you represent? Do you speak on behalf of Lombardy or an electoral body that chose you on the side of a representativeness of the nation? These are the problems we did not have the courage to solve. The political agreement that has been reached is political, i.e. it translates the concerns all within a majority debate which is the real figure that distinguishes the legislature. This, in fact, is the legislature of the internal torment of the Democratic Party, but it cannot be the legislature that opens new paths to the nation. It is therefore not a question of preconceived positions, but simply a judgment of merit which calls on this House to be more responsible and to say what will be the article of the Constitution in which we will have the strength, courage and intention to give a new name that corresponds to a substance and not a mere exercise of nominalism that calls with new names the problems that we do not want to solve. [[Applause from Senators Rizzotti and Volpi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u121	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group reiterates its vote against Article 2, as our Holding Company explained yesterday, because of the complexity and the mess that ultimately takes place in a procedure that, although I personally did not share, however, as it had emerged from the original text of the Senate, had its own clear path. Now, as Senator Fornaro said, we are in the presence of a compromise that is political and not institutional logic; moreover, when the praise of the compromise takes place, I would like to pray that there are no comparisons that have nothing to do with what is happening in this House both on the substance and in the method. De Gasperi spoke to a constituent Assembly and appreciated the overall ideological compromise behind the new Constitution drawn up by a constituent Assembly. Here we should take note - and note - of a compromise within a political party, therefore a component, not certainly a constituent Assembly, but a Parliament elected with a majority prize. So let us avoid making aural historical references in an attempt to legitimize the mess that is happening. On the other hand, this is even more evident from an unusual need felt by the PD. From this point of view, Mr President, I believe that you should limit the possibility of a group making two explanations of vote to this debate; otherwise, our legislative activity might be affected, even more so in that so deprecated slowness that we are being blamed for every step of the way. The PD has made two explanations of vote on the Finocchiaro amendment; so it is okay, it has been done this way, but it does not constitute a precedent.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u122	I gave the floor to the President of the Commission who followed the work there. From a formal point of view it was not an explanation of vote; from a substantial point of view you may also be right.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u123	From a fundamental point of view, I am not criticising the fact that you have allowed it, but I am asking you, please, to make it no precedent, because otherwise, every time we have any debate, we could have this kind of duplication of speeches. However, the political fact was important, because they are both representatives (the President of the Commission and those who intervened) of the Democratic Party, in which it resolved with a compromise or, as Senator Paolo Romani said last night, with a mess that makes the new legislation almost inapplicable. I would like to make one last reference to modernity, Senator Quagliariello. It is not modernity what we are implementing, so we give the party apparatus a legislative system, between the majority award to the House and the composition of the new Senate: it is a resounding step backwards. Perhaps, since historical references are now in force, it is a step back to 1815 with regard to the future geography of the territorial representation of our country. Modernity would have been much more, i.e. reducing the number of regions, reducing spending centres. We have recorded in these days the declaration of the same Government that public spending increased by four billion last year, but it is inevitable that it will increase if we do not proceed to the structural revision of the form of government of the territory of our country. The famous participants against whom you are all speaking are direct daughters of the proliferation of territorial authorities. I have said provocatively, but with strong internal conviction, that it would be necessary to reduce if not even abolish the regions, we must reduce the number of municipalities, we must reduce the weight of the public apparatus on the pockets of citizens because it is not enough, Senator Bonfrisco, to put a ceiling on the level of taxation. In fact, it is inevitable that this level of taxation, while remaining as it is, will increase. These are the modernities that we should have affirmed. Perhaps we should have affirmed a semi-presidency more consistent with the times but certainly not to return to the party apparatus the future Parliament in the combined arrangement of the Italicum, electoral law of the House, and the electoral law for the Senate, which we do not know what will be at the end of all this bailam of changes relating to the reform of the Senate. Eventually, perhaps, it would have been better to abolish the Senate. It would have been a whisper of greater dignity on our part, wanting to eliminate bicameralism, abolish the Senate. Several times I have talked about this subject and so I do not extend. I confirm the negative vote of the Forza Italia Group on this new Article 2 of the Constitutional Bill to our examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u126	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we have finally reached the final vote on Article 2, which has focused a great deal of our attention. I, at this point, cannot but do, of course, a budget of what will be the result that will be delivered to us by the vote on Article 2. I say this with great tranquility, with great determination and I repeat it: at the end of this whole discussion, the result will be a Senate that, if we want to be kind and educated, we could define hybrid. Since I was accused by Senator Finocchiaro of the fact that the model we proposed had no references in other countries, I frankly wonder what the reference model of the Senate would be that would result from the approval of Article 2. It is not the German Bundesrat, we have said so many times. The subject has never been introduced, however, because we never wanted to have any kind of discussion and budget on the state of the Regions and regionalism, a true balance sheet of everything that had happened following the reform of Title V, the aspirations and counter-aspirations federalist. It is not the Bundesrat because, of course, the executives are not there, there is no mandate, there is a regional blockade. It is not even the Austrian Bundesrat and it is useless for anyone to refer to that too. Even in that case, in fact, senators are appointed by regional diets but not necessarily within them, indeed, the practice now more and more usual is to choose them out. It is not the French Senate, it is useless that we continue to turn around, in the meantime because in that case there is an audience of 150,000 municipal councillors who elect the senators; then, as many of us know, also because we have faced the same French Minister of Reform after the law has intervened on the prohibition of cumulation between parliamentary mandate and the offices of executive advisor: there is a problem and there is also the question being raised. They were all very clear and precise models, which were based on a type of state, the federal state: a model made for Germany and for the history of Germany, with all that it entails. In the end, we realize a hybrid, which is further hybridized by contamination. It is not by chance that the noun "contamination" is used. It reiterates the rightness of the election of second level, because Senator Finocchiaro said so, and adds a sort of contamination, which we will then see how it can be extrinsic, through the words "in accordance with the choices expressed by the voters". This is the worst we could do. But why did all this happen? I repeat this here, because I claim, Senator Finocchiaro, the cultural and political inspiration and the analysis that we have done over the years and that you too should have done. What was the fundamental requirement of this Parliament, Mr President, with all its problems because, among other things, the decision of the Constitutional Court on Porcellum (and you know what I am referring to) also intervened? What was this Parliament to think about if it wanted to put a hand in the revision of the Constitutional Charter? To the dramatic question before the eyes of all of us, which is yes that of the articulation of the state, but above all the real and profound one of the state of democracy in our country and the detachment from the citizens. Or we think that all this is solved by propaganda: It's so - and I've heard of all the colors - we finally have efficiency, unlike us who take a year and a half to make laws. All this is false, partly because the laws of parliamentary initiative are now reduced to 2-3 percent. This legislature bears witness to this, since we do nothing but allow decree-laws. So it's all high and the data tells us something else. But this served the easy propaganda of efficient democracy, decision-making democracy and savings. Now, with regard to the need to resolve the problem with the citizens, of course we had to send messages! And here we come to the model that we had allowed ourselves to propose, investigating and trying to pose the real question of recomposition, of rebuilding and healing this fracture between citizens, their representatives and institutions. We have proposed that Members be reduced in a balanced way. The counterweight, Senator Finocchiaro, you did not want to create it because you wanted to leave a Chamber (which, yes, will eventually become inefficient) with six hundred and thirty deputies and a very small number of senators. Then we will return to the issue of balance. The balance we had proposed included the reduction to 150 senators and 300 Members, and it also met the right and sacrosanct need for the reduction. On the matter of the Senate, it is not true that nothing else is referred to. At the moment when a Chamber gives confidence it is evident that, on the other hand, there is the need for a Chamber in which, at last, there can be the pluralistic representation of what is in the country, of the cultural and political differences that are now compressed and humiliated in the Chamber of Deputies with that Italicum. All the more so the balance of the powers of the system was increased with a Chamber that had the function, this yes, of guarantee, control, possibility of investigation, of true verification of policies and laws, of their implementation and of their impact on the State. So please don't make a caricature between us. You've made another choice. This choice already comes from Italicum. What guides your idea of constitutional reform is the reality of one man in command. I say it with great tranquility. Look, I would also like to warn you about something else and I shall conclude, Mr President: this Senate of this kind will not be a clearing house. Senator Quagliariello; I have too much esteem for you and therefore I know that many times certain things must be said and exercised in this sense even those who have their institutional culture. In fact, there will be serious territorial imbalances between the regions and, moreover, we do not know who will represent who. There will therefore be no balance between the Regions, but an abnormal prevalence of the North (but the same could have been said if the prevalence had been in favour of the South) and this will be the source of potential conflicts with the Regions: not by chance Senator Quagliariello posed the problem of the State-Regions Conference. This will, therefore, be an additional element of conflict. I shall conclude by saying that popular sovereignty is not a habit. I recall Article 1 of the Constitution, according to which sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and within the limits of the Constitution. That is the root and we have been reminded by the Constitutional Court, which, when it intervened on the Porcellum, clearly stated that one of the reasons, perhaps the real reason for the unconstitutionality found with regard to the blocked lists, was precisely that the recognition of universal and direct suffrage is part of the guarantee of the supreme principle of popular sovereignty. This was therefore the question that we had to face and certainly not for a good reason. We could certainly have declined it with other balances, but the reference must be absolutely this. The consequences of what you are doing - and I am not just referring to Article 2, but to the whole system - I am afraid that you will realize that in a very short time, because I have the impression that in two or three years' time, you will be forced to take cover. But I do not know if, at that point, perhaps after losing the elections too, you will have more tools to hinder and put back in place in this country principles and a democratic system. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Rizzotti, Simeoni and Volpi]] That is why we are going to vote against this article. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators, Mr Campanella, Mr Mussini and Mr Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u129	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, forgive me for a moment: I have lost sight of you, but it increases the strength to fight you in proportion. Saving on the costs of politics, passing laws more efficiently and faster, storing unnecessary misunderstandings between two rooms that do the same things. This is how your ideology of change has sold (or sold) Senate reform to Italians, this is how it was told on TV and in newspapers. Here, however, the truth can be said: perfect bicameralism, if there is a political will to do, is not an obstacle, but a great wealth. The speed that this system can have you are proving to us, for example with the approval of the Boccadutri law, with which you ensure the financing, without having to present any justification for spending! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] Therefore, we all know that this reform only pursues two clear objectives: the first is to create an absolutistic system in which only one House counts, dominated by a single party, removing as much as possible voice from oppositions. The idea that, in order to overcome the perfect bicameralism, an institutional set-up of "Sudamerican" dictatorship is acceptable really continues to seem crazy to us. With the "deform" Woods we will once again be unique in Europe, but worse! The second objective is to prevent citizens from choosing their representatives in the Senate, to turn this House into a territory of impunity, a free zone in which parties can send their protected people, choosing them into the most investigated and condemned political class in Italy. It is no coincidence that crimes against public administration are mainly committed by local administrators; Mafia Capital is only the last in the long list that involves this category. Just read the judicial chronicles of the last twenty years to realize the phenomenon; but you know this very well! This refugium sinterum, built in art, but it is not only the possible way to escape for gentlemen - it is done to say - but it represents the funeral of democracy. The expression is very strong but it is also what this article represents 2. Here the citizens will have no voice. They will be imposed by the parties of pseudo-representatives, and it will certainly not be the small piece proposed by Senator Finocchiaro to change this system. The names will fall directly from the party leaders, with good peace of that democracy, purpose and instrument of our constitutional tradition. Eliminating the direct electivity of the senators, as provided for in Article 2 that we are voting on, brings benefits only to professional politicians, to those who want to steal sovereignty from the people in order to make it an object of private ownership of the parties. A unique case, with a Senate reduced to a useless body, like the CNEL, but it will cost so much, Minister Boschi, because what costs the most is the Senate machine, and they should all know it, with an elected Chamber with an immense prize given to a minority, maybe not even the largest of minorities: at the ballot, in fact, can win even maybe who in the first round had 25 percent [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , no longer a rag of guarantee mechanisms. I understand why you are doing this: it is a melancholy therapeutic outrage that the parties are administering to themselves. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , unable to make a reason for their inevitable extinction. You are running for cover because citizens have managed to become self-organised and elected in the institutions and have entered Parliament, the Regions and the municipalities. This has terrified you, and your survival instincts have led you even to banish the Constitution, in order to avoid going home, giving up your vitality, finding a job and, in more than one case, going to jail! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]] In re-reading the Berlusconian reform of Part II of the Constitution, one really wonders why, having rejected that, we should accept, ten years later, the reform of the Boschi, which objectively seems even more messy and brainistic, assuming that it is possible. We are now at the constitutional changes made in order to make them, to perform a scalp, without taking care of the consequences: we begin to change, then we will see, as if, between the Constitution that should always be well conceived and the contingent success of a government, the priority was the second. Behind your ideology of change - this change that is always beautiful, good and desirable, whatever it may be - there is actually a reactionary craving to go back to the times when citizens were subjects and few aristocrats, like you, had power. Just like they did in Hungary with migrants, you want to surround the palaces of power with barbed wire walls, to prevent citizens' access. As someone recently recalled, Pope Francis, however, the walls always fall and you will not just bend the rules of democracy in your favor to kick us out of the institutions. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]] You are barricading yourself in a trenches of rules written against the people, without realizing that it will be your tomb. You are already considering the Italicum, the electoral law that you have sewed on to make sure your victory and that you are now already thinking of changing, since your beloved polls are telling you that you have mistaken measures and that a victory of the people, of the 5 Star Movement, is more than possible, even playing with rules that you have chosen. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I have to repeat myself, Mr President: a real monstrum will be born from the point of view of institutional architecture and the Republican Constitution itself will be overturned: but it doesn't matter, it only counts to move forward by providing the people with the idea of triumphant newness. The real change, Mr President, is we citizens in the institutions and you will never be able to kick us out. When we are to the Government (and when they are to the Government, not only us, but also other citizens) we will dismount one by one all the insults you have caused to the citizens, to Italy, to democracy and to the Constitution! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Cardinal's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u132	Mr Corsini (PD). Mr President, there is no doubt that this article is central to the constitutional law that we are about to adopt. This is central from an institutional and legal point of view, but also from a political point of view, as is documented by the broad debate that has taken place over the last few months. I shall confine myself to a few points. First of all, I think it should be stressed that the text adopted in connection with the amendment we discussed here is unambiguous, not capable of distorted interpretations. In the sentence that we all know by now: "chosen in accordance with the choices expressed by the citizens", the terms "designation", "determination" or "selection" are not used; the term "chosen" is used, preceded by an address, "in compliance", which is legally strict. A choice has therefore been made which gives a distinctive mark not only to this article, but to the entire law. I always listen with attention and interest to the speeches of my colleagues. I will therefore be able to propose some comments and objections. I think the field should be cleared from the ghost of fascism, to which my friend Sergio Divina referred earlier. Here there is no monopoly of authority, let alone any political monopoly, even more so in relation to an ordinary electoral law even proportional. I was very involved in Mr Calderoli's speech, but I read in his positions a sort of progressive shift. It is certain that the identity theme, of recognizability of the North League is that of Title V, is the perspective of federalism. So much so that Senator Calderoli, in more than one interview, has reiterated that in relation to the theme of the electivity of the senators there was not on his part a particular interest, a strong sensitivity. Today, instead, Senator Calderoli and colleagues of the League glissano in this direction. I can't help it. I'm pleased with that. There is no doubt that Senator Calderoli raises a problem that has its foundation, namely the link between the fifth paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution, as amended by Article 2 and Article 39, but it seems to me that in his speech yesterday he offered a wrong answer. Here I allow myself a somewhat professorial quotation that goes back to Giovan Battista Vico: even in relation to this problem the nature of things is to be traced back to their "guise" and their "nascimento." This is a debate that we will have to develop and which we in the Democratic Party will certainly not escape. I have always had the belief that the institutionalization of movements was a positive fact. And I have no hesitation in recognizing growth in Mr Endrizzi's argumentative capacity, which cites the principle of contradictive nemine. But it seems to me - and this refrain also comes back in Senator Castaldi's last speech - that Senator Endrizzi is if ipsum contradicins, contradicts himself. Why? If it is worth the argument that we would give space in the Senate to regional councillors who are described under the kind of infamy and corruption, but are still elected, it remains the fact that to choose them are the same citizens who will elect, precisely, the senators. We do not understand, then, how this argument that falls under the ax of the principle of non-contradiction holds. On the other hand, it seems to me that there are other reasons why we have come to the present solution. My colleague De Cristofaro - who always listens with great interest, also because of the bonds of friendship that bind me to him - raises a problem absolutely founded. We are all witnessing the crisis, the drift of the party system, the development of the most diverse forms of populism, from the Protestant one to the identity one, the patrimonial one, the regression of civil custom. But it is precisely because of the need to tackle, to give a response to this problem that a solution has been found. Which one? The cultural tradition from which I come has always focused and has always fought in view of the affirmation of a fullness of parliamentary democracy. Today the theme of a democracy of investiture is very much heard. The name of one of my masters, Giuseppe Lazzati, who reasoned on the need to find a balance between innovation and the maintenance of the highest tradition was rightly mentioned here. How does this tradition come about in the text that has been approved? It is true under the sign of compromise. Well, there is a very famous step in the debate at the Constituent; one of the constituent Fathers wondered: What is a compromise? The compromise is not the renunciation of one's identity, but the search for a solution that gives stability, that allows mediation, a composition of divergent and conflicting positions. The compromise is in the sign of the liberal tradition of tolerance and dialogue. The compromise certainly does not disdain the great traditions of the reformist left and democratic Catholicism and, therefore, I am not at all surprised that we have arrived - precisely - at a compromise, a compromise also on another level. In fact, there have been concerns on several fronts that arise from the Italianum's device, but finding this compromise, which allows the choice of voters to identify the regional senators, certainly - as it has been clarified - also on the basis of the evocation of examples of the past relating to regional elections, is a port of call for mediation, which has laid the foundations for a solution to the problem facing us. Again, a compromise has been reached on another subject which has been divided and which here, on the other hand, finds a balanced point of fall - in my opinion. It was said: the Senate of Autonomies. It is useless that we dissimulate the fact that, around this issue, two guidelines were opposed: the theme of representation of institutional bodies, institutions, and the theme of representation of territories. On this point too, I believe that the solution found here is a reasonable landing place, in accordance with the principle of reasonableness which cannot be alien to the warping of a text of a constitutional nature which earns authority from the fact that it is based on a consensus as broad as possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. Mr Corsini (PD). I'll finish. These are some of the reasons I have tried to evoke. I realize that I will not be able to convince those who maintain a skeptical or contrary attitude, but I believe that they have a basis of rationality the arguments that we have produced for supporting this article and for supporting the reform project. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]] AIROLA (M5S). The compromise was approved by you!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u134	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u135	MINEO (PD). Mr President, I voted in favour of Amendment 2.204, by Senator Finocchiaro, because it nevertheless incorporates the principle of a Senate which is composed in accordance with the choices made by the voters. This is a compromise, as Senator Fornaro said: compromises are made and sometimes necessary. However, as it is, Article 2 is contradictory. The second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution states, in fact, that the Regional Councils elect the senators with a proportional method within them. So what does that mean in accordance with voters' choices? After all, the advisers have also been elected and, therefore, that magic phrase can only mean that the Regional Council chooses what it wants within it, canceling the chimera of direct election. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]] But the point is another: this messy compromise has made possible a rediscovered unity in the PD and this novelty - said Senators Finocchiaro, Fornaro and Corsini - would be the guarantee for a profitable future reformatory effort. I say, however, that the compromise has been consumed outside this House and the competent Commission. [[Applause from Senators Malan and Simeoni),]] By completely cutting out, after so many fine words, all oppositions, with a President-in-Office of the Council who made fire and flames, even threatening early elections - a choice that is not in his faculties [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Simeoni) -]] using the Verdini taxi as a weapon of pressure on his minority, and telling the public - and he will do so again during the referendum - that only he wants reforms, while others lose time not to lose the chair. A real compromise, ladies and gentlemen, could have come if this House had given a signal, with at least one vote that would put the government in a minority and force it to deal in the light of the sun and in the seats, to change positions instead of pretending to change them. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups.]] I remind Minister Boschi that first he wanted senators of the Presidents of the Region and the metropolitan mayors, then the senators appointed by the regional parties, now elected senators but we do not know how. Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. It's democracy. MINEO (PD). Thus the risk - I say to Senators Fornaro and Chiti - is that the surrender of the Senate already anticipates the reform that the Government actually wants, namely the introduction of an absolute premierate, with Parliament that for five years can only ratify the choices made by the Executive. That is why, in dissent from my group, I shall vote no to Article 2. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-PdL XVII and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u136	I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.0.1c and 2.0.2c are inadmissible. I will refer the continuation of the discussion of the constitutional bill No. 1429-B to another session.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u139	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, my speech is to denounce, solidarity and closeness to the Tuscan Councilwoman Fabiola Toncelli of Pontedera. In the night between last Thursday and Friday, around one o'clock, the councilwoman of the 5 Star Movement was the victim of a cowardly and violent act by people who threw a big stone against the window of her home, which fortunately was reinforced, accompanying the gesture with the strong verbal threat: Toncelli be careful. We strongly condemn this cowardly act, which has already been denounced to the competent authorities, and we hope that it will shed light as soon as possible to restore the necessary serenity in the life of the young woman and throughout the city. During this period in Pontedera there are moments of tension, where groups of exalted and xenophobic people establish an atmosphere of intolerance towards foreign citizens and towards the administration in general. On the Net the councilwoman has been intimidated several times: people who hope that, instead of the big stone, a rock will come to her; people who invite her to go out with burqa; various vulgarity and beceri comments, full of hatred. At this time, where intolerance, especially with regard to women, should be denounced with absolute priority, we all cling to her. We recall his recent public complaint against groups organized also on the Net, the response to the sexist and becero game of those who probably see in the woman an object to be silenced or used, real fomenters of hatred. Our Councilwoman Toncelli is also experiencing days of great concern for her family. The violent warning received near his home, the masculine scream: "Toncelli, be careful" could be a reprisal due to his recent statements made in the City Council regarding a social network. The young woman's complaints of intolerance groups probably also relate to the many anonymous intimidating phone calls. Days ago Fabiola had denounced in the City Council the gesture of a 45-year-old who, with his car, had broken the gate of the town hall. On the Net her anger was stirred up, made by some exalted. They arrived in these hours of communication of closeness and solidarity by the mayor of Pontedera, Simone Millozzi, of colleagues and friends. Mr President, the entire 5 Star Movement is close to our Councilwoman and all our spokesmen, who are courageously exposing themselves, risking the violence of a corrupt, degraded system, which we condemn with absolute harshness. A warm hug, Fabiola. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u140	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-516.ana.u141	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 5 October, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 10.03 p.m.
