ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is not supported.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u6	[[Ironic protests and applause from the M5S Group.]] Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). You're ridiculous! Pagliacci! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's not how you do it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u9	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, you could have given me a chance. I see here senators and in particular Senator Verdini, an ally of the partisans, who came to this House this morning. He presented zero drafts, zero amendments and zero appearances. We woke him up because of the risk of a quorum. At least let them prove they came to work. [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u10	Please, Senator Castaldi. I also have here a badge that was launched. You understand for yourself that it is best if we continue the sitting by passing on to the examination of the constitutional bill on the agenda. Thank you. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u13	About what, Senator? Mr Capelletti (M5S) On the order of business. I intend to represent this House and you as a matter of some seriousness, which happened last night. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In this case, it is an end-of-session speech, and so we will give you the floor at that stage. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). No!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u14	You don't decide, Senator Mussini, if you don't mind. As a rule, in the face of facts of a certain nature, if they are so decisive, the Presidency is first informed and the opportunity for action is considered together. [[Senator Martelli's comments.]] I therefore ask you, Senator Cappelletti, to speak at the end of the sitting. Montevecchi (M5S). President, but listen, at least! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then speak on the order of business, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u15	She didn't even let me tell her why I asked to intervene. On this same subject, at yesterday's sitting, three Senators were given the floor, and therefore, I believe that I myself can also speak on this issue today, since yesterday evening there was an unfortunate news about the convening of the Senate's Justice Commission. Last night the Commission was regularly convened at 7 p.m. and there was also a debate in this House on the order of business at the beginning of the sitting. After that, we received information that the call was cancelled in agreement with the representatives of the Groups. Well, you're gonna ask me what's weird. It is strange that the 5 Star Movement Group, but also other groups with which we have had the opportunity to confront, have not been consulted at all. If we had been consulted, we would have expressed our view that a Commission which was convened at 7 p.m. would have been contrary to the ban on a meeting at 8.30 p.m. in order to allow a Group, legitimately, to hold a meeting at 8.30 p.m. There would have been conditions... [[Comments by Senator Di Biagio.]] AIROLA (M5S). Because you are clowns, and you in particular (Senator Airola addresses Senator Di Biagio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, please let Senator Cappelletti finish. [[Comments by Senator Di Biagio.]] Senator Di Biagio, let Senator Cappelletti finish. I shall conclude by asking for an intervention and an opinion from the Presidency on this matter which I consider to be serious: the understanding of the Group leaders was taken for granted when I was probably implied by the understanding of the majority group leaders, as the minority group leaders, represented by myself, were not aware of the annulment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I'll inform the President of the Senate of your report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u18	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, compared with what Senator Cappelletti said, I would like to add that the same timetable, which provided for the sitting of the so-called nocturnal justice committee for last night, had been approved, by a narrow majority, by the Democratic Party. Since neither the Mixed Group, of which I am a member, nor the 5 Star Movement, as Senator Cappelletti said, have been consulted on the postponement of the session of the Commission, I must say that the same timetable, evidently approved by the Democratic Party, is then modified to art. What is really sorry is that, however, here, we are playing a game about civil unions, which is a bit like that of Penelope's canvas: on the one hand, weave a beautiful canvas to be exhibited outside, in even public circumstances, in which all the will and intention to run this bill is manifested and, on the other hand, at the same time, here inside the canvas is defeated. Therefore, I believe that it is not irrelevant to let the House know, and also to those who listen outside, that there is a little game going on here that perhaps it should be over.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u21	CASSON (PD). Madam President, I would like to summarise the facts in relation to the problem posed by Senator Cappelletti, because yesterday I found myself, in the absence of President Palma, as Vice President, to decide on this issue. I simply recall that on the day before the Justice Commission, in plenary, it approved the decision to hold a night sitting last night, from 8.30 p.m. onwards, with a majority vote of ten to nine, on the subject of civil unions. This was the decision voted on in the Plenary Commission, since the Bureau had not obtained the consent of all the groups present. Then, in the course of yesterday afternoon, they came to me, precisely because President Palma, representatives of the People's Area, and in particular Senator Giovanardi, was not present, to inform me that the Group had to hold a meeting and that, precisely for this reason, according to the practice, the session of the Commission had to be disconcerted. I replied that the conduct of the practical group meeting should be reported in writing to the secretariat of the Justice Committee as a group. After that, President Palma, if we had succeeded in achieving it, or if I had, we would have taken note of it and communicated the Presidency's decision to the Commission. After a while, again in the afternoon of yesterday, after speaking with the secretariat of the Justice Commission, I was confirmed that the Group had submitted a communication to the secretariat itself that it wanted to hold a group meeting for the same evening, asking, therefore, for the Commission's meeting to be disconcerted. By not being able to contact President Palma personally, I instructed the secretariat of the Justice Commission to do so and, in any case, to contact all the Group Leaders represented in the Justice Commission to give me the consent and to be able to include, in the event of misconception, the formula "in agreement with all the Group Leaders". After a while, the offices gave me confirmation. The only Holding Company that told me that they had not contacted, as it was not reachable, was actually Senator Mussini. But in the meantime he had been contacted by his colleague from the Group, Senator Orellana, who had given, in view of the practice, his consent. Therefore, taking note of these indications of the offices, and taking for granted the understanding, according to the practice I have arranged the sending of the message of disconvocation of the session, expressly citing the agreement with all the representatives of the Group, and not with the Leaders, for the reason indicated by Senator Mussini. That is what I know, and these are the facts as they have been. I did not receive any communication from anyone after the message of debauchery, unless I took note this morning of what happened. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you, Senator Casson. It seems to me that the point has now been clarified.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u22	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 1429-B, which was first approved by the Senate and first amended by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u23	Madam President, speaking quietly is a necessity that is always felt, but even more so on occasions like this. I begin by trying to make the most of everything that is positive in the debate that we have in progress and, in particular, by saying that this legislature has had a sense from the outset, and it will if we achieve the objective. It has set itself the objective, from the very outset, of carrying out the constitutional reforms that have been invoked several times, and have been the subject of electoral campaigns and government projects, and which have not so far been carried out, with the exception of the reforms and changes that have been made on various occasions. But these changes were made either by a majority, with results being discussed today, or without a majority, with results being cancelled by a popular referendum. Today we are, therefore, in a very complex context, in which we are trying to intervene with amendments to the Constitution not only on points that historically recorded initial compromises and absolutely perfectible solutions - I am talking in particular about what is the best known title, namely the theme of bicameralism, which as a peer should become another thing today - but also on 41 articles of the Constitution, which must necessarily be modified once it takes away or affects the bicameralism of equality, and on many other things that evoke the most recent history of our parliamentary life. I refer in particular - for example - to Article 72 of the Constitution, which is also amended in order to allow the Government to have and obtain at certain times, and with priority, the discussion and approval of the measures it considers urgent. This issue has nothing to do with distant history, but with the distortions of the system that have occurred in recent legislation. In the last legislature there was much discussion - for example - about the excessive number of votes of confidence, but also about the excessive number of decree-laws and the need to put an embankment, that is to say, to understand that, if we really go towards what more authoritative people than I have called a deciding democracy, we must give the government the opportunity to have the tools, and not to look for them with shortcuts or alterations that have actually been in the system - not only in this legislature or in the previous one, but even before, even in the last ones - giving them an extra chance. I say this, therefore, in order to point out that some interventions, even present in this reform, relate to things that have nothing to do only with equal bicameralism. When we talk about Title V - for example - or intervene on the flaws of that reform that the center-left wanted in 2001 and voted by majority, or we will try to put an end to the difficulties of competing legislation, we will do something that is innate in the parliamentary debate and also in the political and constitutional one that, properly, takes place outside the classrooms. We will talk, in fact, about the conflicts that have occurred, increasingly frequent, between Regions and the State and that have resulted in sentences of the Constitutional Court, and not only to resolve the conflicts that we are trying to avoid at the source today, but also to resolve the problems of citizens. It is not a question of establishing here only whether those rules are more or less contested and whether they create conflicts, but also whether they have produced results. When - for example - we talk about a health system that must be the same throughout the national territory, we are not only talking about the conflicts that can arise between the individual regions and the state and that can be the subject of the Constitutional Court's judgments, but also about the right of citizens to claim the same essential levels of assistance throughout the national territory. The reform therefore responds not only to system requirements, which have emerged in the parliamentary debate and the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, but also to those which have emerged mainly from the needs and needs of the citizens. It is therefore a complex reform that has started from afar, from previous legislation, and which has found in the present one, from the beginning, a very strong impulse and will, which have also conditioned my parliamentary life. In fact, I asked to be a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs thinking - and rightly so, I think I can say today - that this was the place where I could learn the most - I say it with due modesty - and also affect parliamentary life, which is then that of the Republic and the citizens, today and tomorrow. I wanted to contextualize why this reform on so many points finds a very broad consensus and is the result of a debate that has ignited the hearts of so many of us, in the last parliamentary term and in the present one. So I don't say I feel "owner" of it, because it would be stupid, but I feel like I want it as many others. And I know that in the Group of the Democratic Party, and among the MPs of a large part of the opposition, there are points of absolute sharing. It must be clear that we are debating a reform that has key points that are absolutely shared. I think - for example - of bicameralism as equals and finding a solution to this long-standing problem is one of those. And I'd start with that. It is an epochal reform if we think that Articles 55, 56 and 57, which concern the Houses, are completely modified. The amendments, in fact, do not affect Rule 56, which concerns the House of Deputies, but Articles 55 and 57 are completely amended. I also claim another figure, which is not insignificant: in Article 55 we speak of the Senate of the Republic. In the debate we held we found a solution that is very shared: the future Senate represents the territorial institutions. In the end, however, we continued to want to call him the Senate of the Republic, even if it represents the territorial institutions. It is not a matter of little account or only terminological, because it must be clear here and outside this House that there will no longer be an equal bicameralism, but a bicameralism, and that the Senate will continue to be a House with great dignity and with diversified functions and that on some points that affect the life of the State and the Republic will be protagonist like the House. It is important to say this. Now let's go to the knot in front of us. The point of greater diversification of positions concerns the electivity of the Senate or, better, the system of election of the Senate. This is a very delicate point, because the solution should be found once the functions, other solutions are identified, contextualized the problem and understood what we want from this Senate. At this point we can talk about the electoral system. The delicate point I want to make this morning is that the text of the bill that is returned to us by the House has a clean solution: it provides that senators are elected by the Regional Councils. It is a solution that I no longer support today, although I voted for it firmly, for a number of reasons - the speeches must be brief - including the approval of Italicum. For me, who are here not as a technician but as a politician with some technical competence, with the Italicum that will serve to elect the Chamber of Deputies and, therefore, two thirds of the representatives - we trivially define appointed, as we called all parliamentarians, especially on the journalistic level, who are in office today, starting with me - with the Provinces elected at a second level and with all a system weighed down by what has already happened and by the votes we have produced, a second-level electoral system for the Senate is no longer convincing for many of us. So, what is the possible solution? I believe that, in the debate these days, the solution has come closer. I believe that we are all aware that having said that the Senate represents the territorial institutions means not to question other cornerstones that are at the heart not only of the Government and the PD, but also of many senators present. It is no longer necessary to question whether the Senate is made up of regional councillors and mayors, who are elected elsewhere with other functions. No longer questioning this means that there is no point in trivializing the allowance, because it is a question of political actors who have a different function at their origin. This is no longer in question. So, you have to figure out who chooses these subjects. And on whomever chooses them there is a conflict that must be resolved. We have come directly to this House for so many reasons, and the most serious thing I feel - I do not know how much I can speak and I have many things to say - is that we are focusing our attention on this point because it is the most distant issue. But when we come to the subject of the problems and deal with the general discussion, we will verify that the point is the functions, because the functions of the Senate affect the value we give to the same and, therefore, also the electoral system we choose, and the guarantees are. If it is the Senate of the Republic and if it is clear to everyone that we do not want it reduced in office and we want to recognize a high value (otherwise the jokes on the abolition of the Senate are wasted), we must be consequent and understand that we cannot take in a single common sitting to vote 630 Members and 100 Senators on the Constitutional Court. We must understand that the senators cannot be given weight when it comes to the election of the President of the Republic, when in reality there is a total numerical imbalance so that the vote of the senators becomes irrelevant. This is important and not because the senator wants to count, but because the Senate of the Republic must be able to affect. And then there are many nodes and they concern functions and guarantees. On this we must find common solutions, because these are issues that have to do with the democracy of the country and they are at heart not to a political part or part of it, but of course to all of us. What, then, is the point of the debate and the subject that I am putting to our attention? This is a difficult issue to address in this House, and all the more so in general discussion. One of the critical points of our system and of the process of approving draft laws is the general discussion, which is often a repetition - and in this case it is even more a repetition, because we have not voted in the Commission - of what has already been said, of what is common heritage, of what is probably no longer necessary to insist on. But there will come a moment in this House when we will have to understand whether this reform must go on in the time required by the majority - I would like this to happen by 15 October - if it must go on with the votes of the whole Democratic Group, to which we must add those not only of the majority, but also of those who want to support this reform, and if it must go on with a process and a matter that is absolutely shared. A final remark: shared matter and unshared solution cannot mean, politically speaking, a shared solution. I would like to give an example which is set out in all the newspapers: let us say that political agreement is reached and we all agree that senators can be elected from among regional councillors and that, in fact, senators are elected at the same time as the Regional Council. This principle is already a compromise and a political mediation, because there will no longer be an electoral law for the Senate and there will no longer be the time when the Senate is elected. This solution, therefore, is a step forward and is highly innovative in relation to the current system. How does this concept translate into technical-legal terms? When we talk about laws this is relevant but, when we talk about the Constitution, it is straight. When you approve a technically messy solution, technically unexceptionable and unreadable immediately, which divides on how you write, this is a solution in which politics gives way and tells technicians to find a possible compromise. The taboo of Article 2 is also part of this. Is Article 2 intangible in the second paragraph? Depends. If politics finds an agreement, if the majority of this Senate has tabled amendments on the electivity of the Senate, if President Grasso happens what has not happened to the President of the 1st Commission, that is, that the policy tells him that this is the solution and that, in order to translate it in linear and reasonable terms, it must also affect the second paragraph, I believe that this solution can be achieved. Will anyone listen to my speech? I don't know. In the meantime, I have done it to my colleagues, knowing and stressing that I am for a united vote of the Democratic Party Group, but I am also for solutions that are impeccable. I could never vote - this time I claim it as a technician - a solution that the next day I should defend on the territory and in the various conferences, saying that it could not be done otherwise because Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, which is in the availability of the Senate (which could, by an absolute majority of its members, even amend the Rules of Procedure), had become a taboo because there were those who had to win and who had to lose. That is not how the Constitution is reformed. When we come to the merits of the individual points, I will say mine and the other colleagues will do the same, but in the meantime the appeal I make is to listen to the truth, because the solutions are at hand and must be crossed all the way. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u24	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u25	Madam President, like all my colleagues, I have listened with great interest to Senator Lo Moro's speech and I largely agree with him. Some of the things he has said are at the heart of a common reflection, obviously not since today. However, I would like to add a few elements of further reflection, because, to put it all, the reasons why I and my Group consider this constitutional reform to be wrong are not limited simply to the very serious problem of the electivity of the Senate. It is certainly a serious issue and it would be even more serious if there had been an analysis in this Parliament, which unfortunately has not been done in the course of these months, and if a judgment had been made on one of the most singular and perhaps even ugliest pages of recent democratic history. I am referring to the way in which the second-level elections took place in our country, in the first example of practical practice. We have already voted in some cities, in the so-called metropolitan areas, with the second-level electoral mechanism and we have probably witnessed one of the saddest moments for a democracy, with a real sale of votes, with electoral mechanisms reserved only for the elected, with citizenship completely obscured, with palace games, which took place in separate rooms. This is something that feeds in a gigantic way that feeling of anti-politics, which this reform should have opposed. However, the House did not have the courage to talk about this. All this is unique: the Assembly itself that reform the Provinces, builds the metropolitan areas, introduces the mechanism of the second level electivity in our country and determines the fact that for the first time in Italy, in a delicate passage, no longer vote the citizens in the flesh, but only the elected, should at least have taken stock of what had happened in that passage. On the other hand, this budget has been dramatically missed and another kind of debate, even a little surreptitious, has been preferred, as if over the course of all these months someone had not highlighted the consensus on one point, on which there was actually an element of agreement. The overcoming of the bicameralism of equality probably agreed with the whole Republican Parliament and could have been a very significant starting point if a constituent spirit prevailed. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that over the course of all these months and - let me tell you this - even during these hours, we do not see the constituent spirit in this House. When you try to recover some votes, not on the basis of political reasoning, but on the basis of some promise, when you play and work on the fact that within a political instability, which is obviously what it is, there is - let's say - a certain reluctance on the part of several senators to return to the vote, when you use guns more or less empty to pass a reform, when you look for the extra vote - just to get to win with a result of 161 votes to 160, or what will be - you create a mechanism that has nothing to do with the constituent spirit. It is indeed the denial of the constituent spirit and will remain this black page, which Parliament has unfortunately determined on a fundamental issue. I address myself in particular to President Finocchiaro, who I listen with great attention: I read his interviews and I am very interested in the reflection on a topic that crosses our country, that is on how the anti-political feeling stops and on how a virtuous mechanism is put in place, that brings citizens back to the institutions. Are you really convinced, colleagues of the majority, that this reform, done in this way, with a few more votes, with no constituent spirit, with all these criticalities, with this elective mechanism of the Senate and even with further fundamental elements that I will say shortly, will be a valid reason to actually overcome this climate of anti-politics? I think you are deeply deceiving yourself, if you believe it in good faith; I think instead that the climate of anti-politics will increase, because you should have done another kind of reflection, which has been missing for a year and a half. We should have thought together on one point: what is the reason for this element of crisis and mistrust, which is the great issue that is going through the democracy of this country today? We are in Italy, which is also a country that over the past years has given great evidence of a democratic spirit, where the percentage of citizens who participated in the elections was very high; there were mass parties and there was a civil society capable in some way of producing results. It was a country in which, you think, even the opposition in the past years had succeeded in achieving results for the large parties and the mass parties; and if they did, this evidently testified to the fact that the democracy of this country worked. But what has happened over all these years? Is it true or is it not true that the democratic forms, as we have known them, have been consumed and that the climate of mistrust, the same that today leads half a country not to vote, is the same that leads today to this obvious difficulty? Who, like me, tries to oppose populism, tries to do so from a point of view that does not deny the problems that cause it. I think that there has been a lack of analysis of what has happened in Italy over the last twenty years, and there has also been a lack of analysis of a specific subject which has concerned the functioning of democratic bodies. I believe, dear President Finocchiaro, that the fundamental mistake that has been made in this debate for a year and a half now is that there has been no serious analysis of the relationship between legislative power and executive power. Your reform is wrong not simply because it puts in place a mechanism such as that of the non-elective Senate, which precisely presents those critical issues that have been remembered and which I share, but also because on this point it does not at all reverse the trend of all these years. You said it changes verse, but you didn't make any change of verse about it. I am well aware that some details and some significant elements of the reform presented by the Berlusconi Government and rejected by the electorate in the 2006 referendum (of course it had different aspects from this one) have a common underlying element with your reform. Some colleagues in the centre-right claim them and are right: just compare them, just see them. This was precisely the point on which this element of agreement was consumed: the fact that it was believed that the cause of this country's crisis was not in the crisis of representation but in the crisis of executive power. I think exactly the opposite of this: I think that in all these years, however, we have been wrong, deeply invested in the subject of executive power and we have forgotten that there is also legislative power, the great theme of representation. When, then, over the years, a series of reasonings and also a series of concrete facts have come together (the abuse of the question of trust, the abuse of the decrees-laws, in short, the things we have been discussing for a long time here), this has resulted in a vulnus and also an element of detachment. It is not that the anti-politics and the crisis of confidence of citizenship towards politics is born from the evening to the morning: it is evidently built in a climate that rises over the years. This constitutional reform of yours does not respond to this issue; you will not win it with this constitutional reform, a bit because you have done it wrong in the method, because it would have served the constituent spirit, but also because on the substance you do not give answers to this fundamental theme: it was certainly not that of the crisis of the executive power the issue that has been missing over these years, and you should have completely overturned the reasoning. I would have liked a constitutional reform that first of all had a great theme: what is the main problem of Italy today? The main problem is that, for the first time in the history of this country since the post-war period, the majority of this country is distrustful of politics. If this had been a constitutional reform worthy of this name then it would have had to begin from exactly this point. It should, for example, have worked very hard on the so-called participatory democracy instruments. But how is it possible that in 2015 a constitutional reform is taking place, with what is happening, that the theme is not to intervene radically on the instruments of democracy? What is not the problem, at a stage like this, marked by mistrust, of putting in place elements that can - yes - build a renewed commitment and a renewed political passion on the part of citizens towards democratic institutions? I think it was a very serious mistake. This mechanism - I insist - was already present in the reform presented by the Berlusconi Government. Of course, I also know that there was talk of premiered and here no and that obviously there are differences; I know that, but the basic spirit, unfortunately, is the same. We will fight it; we fought it and we won it a few years ago, when the Italian citizens, in large majority, rejected that basic system and probably understood that the hypothesis that was put on the field would not serve to solve the problems of the country. We'll do the same. I hope that reasonableness will prevail in this House and that improvements can also be made during the coming days, but I mean - and I say this not only to those who listen to me in this House, but also to those who listen to me outside - that for us the political battle does not end with the final vote that will be held at Palazzo Madama; for us the political battle continues in the construction of committees against this wrong constitutional reform. The Premier says that he will make the referendum: we remind him that we do not do it by his kind permission, but because the constituent Fathers were wise when the Constitution was made and wrote, in Article 138, that if there is no two-thirds majority you must obviously call the referendum. I say that because sometimes it seems to be a kind concession and instead it seems right to remember that it is not so. However, I believe that that referendum and the political debate that will take place will also be deeply polluted. In fact, in a country like this, it's easy to say today that you have to vote yes to that referendum because it cuts 350 salaries, but do you really think that this is a serious response to the country? Of course, you have a very strong subject in the election campaign. I also know that it is difficult to respond to this at this time because the crisis bites, hunger is so much and privilege is more unbearable than before; but it is propaganda, ladies and gentlemen. You may pass the reform and win the referendum - if you succeed - with propaganda, but you have done a terrible service to this country. This country would have deserved more; it would have deserved a serious debate on the fundamental issues, on what happened, on why democracy was consumed in this way, on political parties, on democratic forms, on party sections, on elements of civilization. Think of a land like the one I come from: these days we talk so much about Camorra, the Camorra that shoots and kills people in the middle of the street; why was this thing twenty-five years ago a little more difficult than today (not that there wasn't)? Because those democratic forms somehow introduced elements of civil resistance that allowed us to fight, to put in place a presence, to talk about organised civil society. This is the real issue, which has been completely removed from this debate. How is it possible for the Senate of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies to evade the underlying theme we should have discussed, that is, how do we reconstruct the foundations that allow our country's democracy to regain the antibodies it has lost over the years? But unfortunately this debate cannot be done, because we are discussing the salaries of 315 senators to be cut, how regional advisers, lists, preferences and amenities of this kind will be elected. We really do not share this debate. Of course, we will support all those amendments - and we hope that we can vote on all the amendments - which will try to put some elements of improvement into the reform, but we still have a great deal of concern. We also keep it because it really seems to us that there is an element of unbearable propaganda (even in this case the denial that he has never said it or even thought about it can come along): is it really acceptable that we can even think - I say not, but think - that if the President of the Senate dares reopen the debate on Article 2, we are avenged by tabling an amendment abolishing the Senate? This I can say, because I consider the reform to be wrong and messy and, therefore, I can advance the provocation whereby, to a messy reform, it is preferable to abolish the second branch of Parliament and the introduction of monocameralism (which is a system that seems to me to be present in Israel, but also in some other country that now escapes me). I repeat: I can say that I have a negative opinion on the reform. The majority of the government thinks that the reform is right and defends it; moreover, it has the necessary numbers to act, therefore not having to measure on the amendments (it is the same majority of the government, and not me, to say that it has the numbers). Why, then, does it put this pollution into the debate? Why does it filter this pollution element? Dear colleagues, I think that in this way we do not really do a good service to Italy and that we should have had more respect for the shaky democracy of this country. We should have put ourselves - this time yes, all together - the underlying theme, that is how to finally reverse the trend in Italy in 2015. Unfortunately you did not want to have this debate and I hope so much to be a bad prophet and to be mistaken in thinking that if this constitutional reform is approved, those demagogic and anti-political feelings that you say you want to fight will increase much over the years that will come. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bocchino. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u26	Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u27	Madam President, listening to Mr De Cristofaro, I wondered how there is no fundamental question on the part of those who rightly complain about some propagandistic tones that support this reform in public opinion, such as the question of reducing the direct costs of the Senate... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u28	Senator De Cristofaro, you have already spoken and I invite you not to raise your voice too much while talking to your colleagues. Let me also listen to Senator Lanzillotta's speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u29	LANZILLOTTA (PD). I also mentioned Senator De Cristofaro and, therefore, we could also listen if we wanted to have an interactive debate. I did it with him. As I said, the problem is to ask why citizens perceive the Senate (and, in general, Parliament) as an institution that is not useful and for which it is not worth investing resources because it does not give useful answers. I believe this is what should distress us: to be able to build institutions that give answers in the future, rather than chasing a past that does not return because society, the economy, cultures have changed and, therefore, the way to interact of politics and ideals with citizens, as well as the search for their own representation that finally declines ideality with the answers to needs. For this reason I do not understand how we can, once again, denounce the hastyness of the decision. In my opinion, this complaint is unacceptable when it is made at the regulatory and constitutional level, because I believe that our constitutional and regulatory rules are all aimed at allowing the elected assemblies to decide, to come to a point and to govern the complexity of the assemblies, without which it would become a path without ever a conclusion (which, unfortunately, we have had in recent decades). For this reason, I believe that the decision to move to a seat able to take a decision was right, and I believe that we must make the most of all the procedural rules, also through the function of rationalization of the procedure, such as that on the consolidation of approved texts, or the normoprecautionary function of the President of the Senate, which guarantees the coherence and internal rationality of what Professor Manzella called parliamentary polycentrism. Without making the most of the internal rules of the functioning of democracy, democracy is dissipating, as it has lost in recent years; but the urgency that I want to stress, and that perhaps has not been sufficiently noted in this debate to date, is real. We need not to dissipate that heritage of credibility and reliability that we are laboriously rebuilding, because we are at an important turning point, the potential of our economy: to support it, to expand it, we need to finance tax reductions, public investment; we need to create an attractive environment for foreign investment, and all this is done through the credibility of the institutions and through the testimony of the institutions to know how to change by adapting themselves to the new needs of society and the economy. On the contrary, we tend to make institutional mechanisms prevail which allow the veto and the ban on decision-making. This, once again, is what is being tried today, more or less consciously, to restore, i.e. to weaken what is the main objective of constitutional reform: to adapt our democratic institutions to the ability to decide in acceptable times and with internal consistency. The regions, especially in the architecture determined by Article 114, perhaps a little demagogically, overturning the order of priorities - I would first put the State back, according to a natural hierarchy, I dare say, even if it is not the legally correct term - constitute a significant level, to which a part of the regulatory body is transferred, but what has been missing since the 1970s, since the implementation of the reforms began, is precisely the institutional link between these levels of the Republic and the elected assemblies. This was also the reason why there was and still is, with potential degenerative effects, a crisis of identity of regional elective assemblies. The expansion of the role of the State-Regions Conference from the place of coordination of the executives to total expansion of the regional executives also in the field of legislation, with interdictive functions, also in relation to the autonomy of the Parliament - which was conditioned by the opinions of the State-Regions Conference even at the stage of the presentation of the bills and decree-laws - constituted a mechanism distorting a correct and rational relationship between institutional levels. What happened then between the first reading, when the system of indirect representation of the Regions in the Senate was considered acceptable and today? Approval of the electoral law has taken place. The electoral law, which gives a marginal number of Members for the stability and continuity of the legislature and the majority, has, however, ensured consistency of the political-legislative direction in the branch of parliament, i.e. in the political branch of Parliament. The Senate today wants to bring back to a direct proportional elective representation that would repeat - be careful - the same division between elected Senate and territories; so much so it would be worth leaving the current norm that says that the Senate is elected on a regional basis: they are elected that - if you access the line of free election and not contextual with that of the regional councils - they directly represent the electorate, not the regional institutions. This is because the regional institutions must, instead, feel their representatives in the Senate as their own emanation and therefore recognize them as entities that act as a legislative and institutional link, which is shared by the regional system, because only in this way can it actually play its role. Therefore the problem is not always and only that of direct representation, because sovereignty, as stated in Article 1 of the Constitution, is expressed not only through direct representation, but in the forms and limits that the Constitution provides, which are many and very diversified. Then, through the idea of direct election, the idea is inserted that, if the power of blocking and ban cannot be achieved through majorities destabilized on the one hand, then we must restore a power of blocking and veto, therefore of functional inability of the institutions, through a proportional and elective Senate, which therefore has a different function and legitimacy. That's the straight point. On the other hand, I agree with the idea that we need to intervene again on the part relating to the functions and mechanisms of balance between the House and the Senate. I also share some of the considerations made by Senator Calderoli. I think that we must reflect on the famous article 116, third paragraph, of the Constitution, for the transfer of additional functions, adopting in general a criterion that is now constitutionalized, that of the standard of performance, which is both financial but also administrative capacity, because - as we remember - the regional system has broken the principle of equality. We have had this purely regulatory approach with the taboo of formal equality and not substantial, so, with a kind of switch, we thought that from 1 January 2001 all the Regions could assume responsibility for enormous tasks, thus putting at the forefront the needs and rights of the political-burocratic class of the Region, rather than the rights of citizens to have equal performance. Today we, in adding but also possibly in raising competences, must put the rights of citizens at the centre of performance and therefore allow the Regions to fully exercise their functions only when there are some standards of legality, financial balance, administrative capacity, because otherwise we really see injustice materialize physically. For these reasons I believe that we must proceed quickly to the approval, because we cannot afford to fail again and to disperse that heritage of credibility that today must also be transformed into capital in a narrow sense to spend on our country. In fact, we can no longer afford, it really pains us to repeal tout court democratic institutions, because they are considered too distant from a society and a changing economy, from a technological speed that is a thousand miles away from the time of our decisions. In this context there is also a search for balance between legislative and executive, because the legislative must understand that its time of decision is such that it must be applied to an area of decision that can tolerate relatively dilated times, while the executive must have all the powers to take timely decisions. I believe that we have the urgency to do this, but also to approve a reform not only to put a cross and to say that we have done so, but that in the test of the facts, in its application, it is actually able to overcome some of the difficulties that have gripped us and that have led our country to such a profound crisis. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u30	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u31	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, these days we are writing one of the darkest pages of Italian constitutionalism. This Constitution, which is at the foundation of the legal and institutional order of Italy, so dear and jealously guarded for decades and decades, today risks being distorted in the name of a revision as hastily as imprecise, inadequate in providing a solid architecture to the Italian Parliament. Forza Italia has always been in favour of overcoming the perfect bicameralism, which slows down Parliament's legislative activity, and by a lot. Proof of this is the constitutional reform of 2005 of the Berlusconi Government. Leaving aside the reasons for the non-approval and the acrimony of the oppositions that fought, at that time, for the no to the confirmation referendum, Forza Italia, at the moment when the Renzi Government has carried forward the will to change the structure of the legislative branch, it has shown favorable, precisely because of the well-known aspiration of our party to a certainly improving revision. However, the process of constitutional reform has once again revealed the true intentions of the current Government, which carries out its activities through forcefulness both in method and in substance. From the point of view of the method, the distinctive features of this Government are well known. The initial moment is always imbued with noble openness: words such as "sharing" are used, "need of agreement" is required, "partecipation" is used, "synthesis" is wider, "dialectic" is used, "dialogue" is used, "comparison" is used. Well, I can firmly say that the idyllicity of sharing is only an illusion, because then you get to the usual blow of hand: suddenly the dialogue closes, the decision, never participated, is made and from that moment on the government breaks in and breaks out any institutional rule. The narrative is very wide and we, together with the Italian citizens, are the witnesses. From the election of the President of the Republic to the constitutional reform of today, which has become the great obsession of the Government, which seems not to care about the serious problems of Italy that in the meantime are shaking much more serious balances than the perfect bicameralism, one of all the problem of immigration. The tearing of this week is a very serious fact. President Romani, who spoke in this Chamber, rightly photographed him, stating that it is a situation that causes us to be dismayed and restless. We cannot accept the decision taken at Palazzo Chigi, and not at the Senate, to interrupt the examination of the draft constitutional revision law which was taking place in its natural seat, that is, in the first Commission, constitutional affairs, in fact expropriated of its particular powers, in order to skip any reflection or intervention within the Commission itself. Not to mention the river and night sessions that await us, almost to degrade parliamentary dignity; the request to convene the group leader who comes from the President of the Council and not from the President of the PD Group to the Senate and so on. At this point it is not trivial to ask this House and the public if, instead of Renzi, President Berlusconi had been at the head of the Commission, who and what political and institutional forces would have hurled at it? On the substance, it is a reform that undermines the second Chamber of the Italian Parliament. First of all, I do not welcome the indirect election of the members of the future Senate: out of a hundred members, seventy-four will be regional councillors and twenty-one mayors. They will sit on the benches of the Senate without a mandate, so it is very likely that an elected mayor with the votes of a party, the Senate joins a different group and perhaps opposed to its local political membership. Secondly, during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, the draft law had a significant impact on the functions assigned to the Senate, in fact devolving its nature to the mere after-work of regional councillors and mayors. Thirdly, one cannot fail to look with concern at the future institutional set-up that will take place with the combined provisions of constitutional reform and electoral law. The holding of democracy is at risk! In conclusion, I cannot fail to express our great concerns. However, I hope that the general debate will give rise to a more appropriate synthesis within this House which will give the Senate the constitutional dignity it deserves again. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u32	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u33	Madam President, representatives of the Government, Madam President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is essential to change the Constitution. We must give Parliament greater capacity to decide quickly. Our Constitution is beautiful, especially in Part One; the second, however, was approved many years ago, and then resented the fact that we wanted to create a series of filters to the ability to decide the Government after the bad experience of fascism. Today we live in different times. In economics, until a few years ago if a company was wrong for two or three years then it could recover; Today, if you miss three months, six outs, people get fired and the company fails. Politics must also have the capacity to decide quickly. Globalisation also involves the problem of immigration. Unfortunately, many less foreign capitals flow from us than could happen, because we do not have the capacity to decide. We never say "yes" or "no" quickly enough and this allows the territory to be defaced, for example by abusive works, and that those who are correct cannot operate. I would have liked us to change the Constitution according to the French model. France, in the 1940s, helped win the war and kicked out the Nazis. In the 1950s it was a torn country, unable to decide: governments changed every three months. Compared to us, who changed them every year, we were a stable country. The Algerian war had devastated France, even economically. The French then called General De Gaulle as head of government. He solved Algeria's dramatic problem and then asked to change the Constitution. The French Parliament changed it in four months; then the new charter was submitted to a referendum and was approved by the people. The most proud opponent of that constitutional reform was François Mitterrand, who was then the greatest beneficiary of this reform, because in the 1980s he was President of the French Republic, democratically elected, for fourteen years, with two seven-year terms. That is the history of democracy, and that is why I would have liked this model. Unfortunately, however, you never get what you want, but what the compromise leads to. In the summer of 2014, a year ago, we worked with great conviction. The Commission, where there has been a great deal of discussion, and the two rapporteurs, President Finocchiaro and Vice-President Calderoli, have worked hard, but there has also been a great deal of work in this House and a compromise has been found which many have called "acceptable" and which Forza Italia has voted with conviction. The late and beloved Donato Bruno, Senator Bernini, in the Commission, and Vice President Calderoli, yesterday in the Chamber, explained to us why and how the House has worsened the reform that we approved last summer. We do not like the text and I think it would have been very useful if in addition to discussing it in the Commission - because the constitutionalists were discussed and audited, as the President explained to us yesterday - it was also possible to implement the work done by voting. We are very sorry that this has not happened - I personally in a particular way - and we consider it a great mistake. But I think it's never too late. Our Rules of Procedure are Byzantine, but if each medal has its reverse, then that of a Byzantine Rules of Procedure is what we still have the opportunity to return to a real and peaceful debate: the path to constitutional reform, before reaching the referendum, is still long. I am therefore convinced in Forza Italia and I share the line, but I really hope that the Government and the majority, well supported by the institutional correctness and professionalism of the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, next week can resume to discuss, to find an agreement within them and with all the political forces present in this Senate. This must be done. You see, ladies and gentlemen, last week we wrote that beautiful and moving page that was Donato Bruno's memory. It was a moving and participated ceremony, not at all formal, in which everyone said that one of Donato Bruno's merits was to respect the ideas of others: to argue, to quarrel with his political opponent, but to respect and listen to what those who thought otherwise told us. I think that we must not forget what we said a few days ago: we must discuss civilly, even quarrel, but look for serious solutions to solve this problem, which is important, and then deal with the issue of the law of stability with the same determination and seriousness, in which I hope that what the President of the Council is promising is true, namely that we will see a reduction in taxes, because this is what the country needs. The country, however, also needs rules that allow politics to decide in normal, civil and modern times, not with the Byzantineisms in which we are imprisoned at this moment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u34	Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, many of the opponents of this project have used disproportionate propaganda arguments from the outset, talking about authoritarian drift and P2. The last finding is the "democracture" that makes the pair with the man's story only in command. In this way, we want to make it understood that the President-in-Office of the Council is a sort of mix between Craxi and Berlusconi or even the reincarnation of the leader, how he governs, how he leads his party and just the fact that he is at the same time secretary of the PD and President of the Council, as in all Europe, to be true; as always, however, who knows why, from us is different; because - if he can - he avoids referrals, because he requires that decisions be taken at some point, because he marks the agenda of Parliament with a different timing from the old movements of Italian politics. They're all things that, above all else, they don't always succeed. But there is no democracy on the one hand and an authoritarian parafascist attempt on the other. Two conceptions of democracy are compared: one is assembly and it is based on the so-called centrality of Parliament, the other is based on the responsibility of the Executives. The first was typical of the Italian peculiarity, that of the post-war era, part of the anomaly of a political system characterized by the lack of alternation; the second is proper of the more advanced parliamentary systems. It is no coincidence, in fact, that no parliamentary democracy has a second Chamber called to carry out counterweight functions and it is no coincidence that in almost seventy years of perfect bicameralism, as many constitutionalists have pointed out even in recent weeks, no one has ever supported the argument of counterweight. At most it has been said that a second Chamber, elected in the same way and holder of the same functions of the first, could allow some rethinking of the legislative decisions, something quite different from the counterweight, without ever changing the unanimous negative judgment of the constitutionalists on the useless duplication, the result of one of the very few compromises to the decrease of our constituents. Of course we all understand the theme of counterweights - and I'll be back in a while - but I can't understand the search for warranty tools in a second Chamber directly elected. The crazy idea that transforming the Senate in a very similar way to the Austrian Bundesrat would destroy an essential political counterweight and with it the fundamental guarantees and, ultimately, the Constitution itself is nonsense. It would suffice to recall that in none of the most significant parliamentary democracies the second House is directly elected. The majority of the countries of the Union do not have a second Chamber and, among the thirteen countries that have a second Chamber, only five of its members are directly elected by the citizens and, among these five countries, only in Italy, Poland and Romania the second Chamber has important powers and only in Italy the Senate has the same powers as the Chamber of Deputies. Only Spain elects the Senate for a variable percentage directly - even in Spain a part of the members is designated by the autonomous communities - but there has been a discussion in that country for a long time to overcome the quota with direct election on the basis of a topic that could also apply to our Senate, if it was directly elected and that Professor Barbera summed up during the hearing in this way: either direct representation expresses an orientation in line with that of the Chamber of Deputies - and then has no function and no meaning - or that is not the case. Then there would be problems of homogeneity and effectiveness of parliamentary action, as was the case with the German Bundesrat when the majority did not coincide with that of the Bundestag: this was the reason for the reform desired in 2006 by Christian Democrats and Social Democrats who reduced its competences, precisely to avoid the practices of associations and legislative paralysis. If we get rid of the impossible defenses of the status quo, a regional chamber can be done in many ways. I remember proposing at the first reading, without much success, a series of amendments to introduce the German Bundesrat, including the vote on the package, but the important thing is that we do not give up the principle of a Senate representative of the territorial institutions by avoiding duplication unnecessary or harmful. It is objected that the strengthening of the government, resulting from the majority prize thanks to electoral reform, requires the search for appropriate counterweights, but this also seems to me a commonplace. The democratic guarantees must not be sought in the paralysis of the government voted by the citizens, but in the real counterweights of which our system is as rich as few: the role of the opposition (on which I will then return), the Constitutional Court, the judiciary, the Regions, associations, the press, the European Union, President of the Republic and - if we want - good laws on conflicts of interest, on lobbying, on independent authorities. These are all things, however, that are not done without a robust policy. The elective Senate has nothing to do with this: it can only deprive Italy of the precious presence of territorial institutions at the centre of the system. I recall that precisely the lack of a parliamentary place of mediation is the main critical point of the reform of Title V wanted by the center-left in 2001. Not to mention the fact that the main problem in Italy is not the absence of counterweights, but the weakness of the decision-making weight of the Government and Parliament. I remember that Professor Barbera, during his hearing, made the example of the United Kingdom, a country that fought fascism when we wore the fez and one of the main democracies in the world. The United Kingdom is a country in which the majority prize can even have the effect of the disappearance of entire political formations (liberals on several occasions, for example) and which nevertheless overestimates the political force that manages to reach 38-40 percent of the votes. I remember that Tony Blair won his third term with 35% of the votes and that with this percentage Labour got 55% of the seats. And the House of Lords is not an institution elected by the people. The same thing happens in France, where, with 29 percent of the votes obtained in the first round, the Hollande Socialist Party has won 53 percent of the seats in the National Assembly. And the French Senate is not elected by the citizens. In the United Kingdom, home of liberal democratic constitutionalism, the Prime Minister decides Westminster's agenda for more than three quarters of the time and the Chancellor of the Exchequer may veto any expenditure amendment. The Head of State, unlike the Italian Head of State, has only symbolic functions. There is no Constitutional Court like the Italian one and the magistrates do not have the guarantees that assures them of the Italian Constitution (in practice they are government officials, like the police themselves). There are no repealing referendums and neither do the parts of the European Treaties which outline the Charter of Rights, because they have not been signed. In this country, where are the counterweights? I am not in the House of Lords, but rather in the powers that are recognized by individual parliamentarians and oppositions. Cito Churchill: "Not the Lords, but the opposition to Westminster guarantees English freedom." It would be enough to take a look at Tony Blair's political biography and the pages devoted to the anguish and terror that the British Prime Minister feels on the eve of the question time, when he has to face Parliament without knowing the questions and arguments that will be put to him and without having the answers already prepared. It is an issue of the opposition in Parliament, which is no stranger to the text under consideration, because this text enhances the repealing referendums, making it easier to reach the quorum, ensures the examination of the draft popular initiative, ensuring certain terms for their discussion, and refers, for the first time in a constitutional text, to the statute of oppositions. Moreover, this project strengthens the role of guarantee of the Head of State, raising thresholds and scrutiny for the election and making it more difficult to elect by the majority expressed by the elections alone. We could say, on the contrary, that there is the opposite risk, that is not so much that of a majority coup, but rather that of arriving at the election of the Head of State only after very long and numerous votes. In short, it has been more than twenty years since the two referendums in 1991 in 1993, which have called into question the proportionality and the forms of assembly of our Parliament. Since then, we have passed the partnership democracy to establish a model of governing democracy; and since then, an endless transition has begun, a real war between a model of competitive democracy and a model of associative democracy. To each of these models correspond different institutional arrangements, different conceptions and also different practices of politics. But sooner or later these will have to be aligned and adapted, otherwise the system will remain unconsistent, will inevitably be disconnected and will not be able to exercise its function as it should. With the initiative of the Renzi Government, after the failures of the past (which should be listed), it took shape the attempt to achieve this adjustment, so as to finally make possible the functioning of a competitive democracy. The electoral law, which introduces a well-structured majority (I remember that, with the ballot, we allow voters to decide with the vote to whom to entrust the task of governing), and now the constitutional reform, with the liquidation of the perfect bicameralism, make possible the competitive democracy. This reform would crown the thirty - year effort, carried out in vain by all sorts of majority. I understand the opposition's attempt to prevent this model of democracy of alternation and "competitive democracy" from achieving complete coherence. I also understand that part of the left wants to safeguard the old model, to which is linked the very possibility of an antagonistic and ideological left, to which it is not interested to be "left of government." However, there is no need to have, in Italy, any "fear of the tyrant", neither now nor with the reform. I remember that not today, but a long time ago, just Constantine Mortati, one of the noble Fathers of the Constitution, highlighted the different inconsistencies that go through Part II of the Constitution, listing five of them. A first contradiction exists between the efficiency of government institutions and guaranteed bonds, mainly due to the fear that majorities holding power use them to turn against opponents. There is a second contradiction between the formal power attributed to the organs of the State and the real power assumed by the political parties, which has actually absorbed the powers of decision proper to Parliament. A third contradiction exists between the powers attributed to the organs of the State and the resistances and pressures of the opposing organized social interests which, by preventing decisions and therefore also the assumption of political responsibility, favour forms of "neofeudalism." A fourth exists between the indispensable regional decentralisation and the equally necessary centralization of a unitary direction, which belongs to the contemporary state. Finally, Mortati pointed out a contradiction between the adoption of proportional representation, which was not imposed by the Constitution, and the process of renationalisation of the form of parliamentary government, which requires stability and incisiveness of government action. These are all things that we see squadernate before our eyes. Mortati was rightly more confident about the possibility of co-existing, instead, the principles that inform Part I of the Constitution, despite the various inspirations, that is, the Christian, the Liberal, the Socialist. Those principles have gradually become rooted in the order, and today they are much more rooted in the conscience of Italians than they were in those first decades in which the Constitutional Charter had begun its journey. Faced with increasingly solid and rooted constitutional principles, the institutions continue to highlight those contradictions and the reasons for fragility listed above, which have become even worse. The institutions of government designed by the Constituent have allowed our country to cross the abyss and the possible precipice of the Cold War, but today they represent a brake on Italy's ability to stay in Europe and in the globalized world. Precisely because the constitutional principles have become strongly rooted in the conscience of the Italians, it is possible to try to close the pages left open by the Constituent, restoring greater vigour to the institutions of the Republic and finally overcoming vetoes and conservatisms, which have weighed for decades on the attempts to reform the institutions. Colleagues, let's not waste this opportunity. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u36	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as the President of the 1st Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Senator Finocchiaro, to whom my thanks go, together with all the members of the Commission, for the work carried out, the draft Constitutional Law before the Assembly today, which contains the revision of Part II of the Constitution, returns again to the Senate for the second reading, after the first approval on 8 August 2014 and the passage to the House, which intervened on the text of the bill amending some parts of it. The reflections of the political and constitutional debate that raged on the media and the press before, during and after the summer (and which still rages now), focused in particular on the themes of the perfect bicameralism, which is surpassed by this measure, by the election of the new members of the "high" Chamber, which will no longer be directed, but of second degree, and on the powers and tasks of the new Senate, which in representing the territorial institutions, will contribute to the role of liaison between the State and the other constituent bodies of the Republic, and between the latter and the European Union. In addition to these fundamental pillars, this reform contains other important measures that we should remember and highlight in this Assembly and to all the citizens who observe our work. I am thinking first of all of all of the measures that the Government, the majority and the PD really consider essential in order to contribute to a substantial reduction in the costs of politics, such as by reducing the number of parliamentarians or the end of the compensation proper to the senators, as they will simultaneously perform the functions of regional councillor (or mayor), thus perceiving only that allowance. I am also thinking of the abolition of CNEL and Provinces (the reference to which is deleted from the Constitution). I would also like to stress the intervention made with the draft law through the introduction of the new Title V of the Constitution. This eliminates the so-called competing subjects between the State and the Regions, whose definition has produced negative consequences for our legal system. This is through the duplication of costs and structures and above all through the multitude of constitutional appeals of the State and the Regions before the Constitutional Court, which have led to a confusion of competences and responsibilities between national and territorial levels. The introduction of the so-called supremacy clause also allows the State to intervene to protect the unity of the Republic and the national interest, while respecting the spheres of decision of regions and local authorities. The changes to the legislative process, with the new Article 72 of the Constitution, also allow the draft law of the Government to have a preferential lane for their examination in the Chamber (always remembering that the legislative function will remain collective for certain matters). This could allow the end of the degeneration of the use of the government's urgent decree repeatedly stigmatized both politically and in law. These and other measures contained in the measure, together with the new electoral law, have the only purpose to allow the governability of our country, to speed up the times of approval of the laws, to establish in every matter the competences and functions of the central State and the Regions; ultimately to overcome that impasse that for years, I dare say decades, has blocked Italy preventing its growth and development, contrary to what happened for our European partners. To all those brakes, to those who blame our President-in-Office of the Council for an authoritarian drift which confuses our citizens and which is indeed in danger of breaking up, let us remember that this Parliament, so-called liquid, is the result of an election that has created a very fragile political situation. On 25 February 2013, the polls not only did not produce a majority, but they brought to Parliament incompatible forces between them, parties that do not have a minimum common denominator, as it was in the constituent Assembly in 1946 (and in this Parliament it is certainly not what we would like it to be). The choice is therefore clear: to make reforms with those who are in or not doing them at all. Our President-in-Office of the Council is trying to do it with those who are in and have not hidden it. He has been honest because he has said it since the beginning of his term of office. [[Senator Martelli's comments.]] There are several paradoxes that then help us to understand the core of the issue, namely the fact that the stakes are really high. This is not one aspect of the ongoing institutional reforms, but a model: the model of democracy. On the one hand there are those who are nostalgic, as has been recalled by someone who intervened before me, of a cooperative and consensual model, made of continuous mediations and broad sharings. Then there is Renzi, our President-in-Office of the Council, who aims at a model of majority democracy, which has been going on since 1993, first in local and regional governments, then very hard and imperfectly also at national level. It is a model of democracy in which those who win rule, and it is the model of Italicum and our reforms, also this. It is no coincidence that I also spoke of Europe because, as has been pointed out by illustrious constitutionalists, the perfect bicameralism, whose abolition is the central axis of the reform, as mentioned, is an anomaly all of Italy. The majority of the countries of the European Union (15 out of 28) are single-camera systems. In the remaining thirteen countries with a second Chamber, only five of its members are directly elected by the citizens. It is also good to remember that in some important countries such as Germany, Austria and France, the second Chamber is indirectly elected precisely to better represent the territorial autonomy. Who therefore believes, even among some of my friends and party colleagues, that the Senate not directly elected (second central point of the Reformation) is useless organ, and therefore to be repealed, does not consider that this composition is the one more consistent with its nature of territorial representation and with its function. I recalled just now that the lack of role of the Senate as a link between the State and the Regions has led to a huge dispute between the various institutional realities of our country, which forced the Constitutional Court to play a role of "judge of competences" not required of it. On the contrary, the positive experience of the German Bundesrat, where the Presidents of the Regions sit, must be an example. It is no coincidence that one of the proposals to amend the current text made by Sergio Chiamparino, president of the Piedmont Region (from which I come), during the hearings in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs provided for the presence in law in the new Senate also of the Presidents of the Region and the mayors of the metropolitan cities. Conversely, the direct election of senators would lead to the creation of a Serie A and a Serie B chamber, which would not exceed the current bicameralism. It must be recognized that the "useless duplication", as Constantine Mortati defined the Senate, has long since become harmful also seen the consistent possibility, with every electoral law adopted until now, to elect two different majorities between Chamber and Senate. Moreover, as my colleagues Mr Cociancich and others said yesterday, the basic principles of this reform are those already contained in the proposals of the olive tree, since 1995 (not to mention the attempts of President Iotti of 1979). The famous Violante draft, which in 2007 with Romano Prodi president of the Council, was voted in the First Commission in the House by the whole coalition, provided for the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism through the establishment of a Chamber of Autonomous elected in second degree by the regional councils. The problem that might arise is not to extend the legislative powers of the Senate, but to strengthen its control powers, for example on the appointments of the independent authorities and on the guarantee bodies; or to increase its powers of inquiry, extended to all matters and not only those relating to the State and the Region. Everything can be improved, of course, without touching the fundamental structure of the reform. Strengthening the Senate in this sense means preventing it from affecting the evaluation of public policies, which would affect the political direction of the Government and the country. Or even give him the possibility of a political veto. It would therefore be a step backwards, rather than a legal vulnus, granting to a House that does not give confidence to the Executive these prerogatives, which does not happen in other European countries, where however the High House retains its fundamental importance. I therefore believe that many of the accusations made against this reform are actually slogans or instrumental criticism, because we understand very well how the true democratic counterweight in a system such as ours cannot reside in a second elective Chamber, but in the true and effective representation of the territorial institutions in the Senate, with its own autonomous capacity for evaluation and control, free from electoral dynamics and conditioning. I would add that I have heard of a House of great dignity. I address my colleague in the 5 Star Movement - which I do not see here now - Senator Santangelo, who this morning, in a television show, accused the Democratic Party of buying votes. I find it really serious and even disconcerting that a senator of the Republic casts shadows on the work of those who are working to carry on the path of fundamental reforms and to support the recovery that Italy, with so much difficulty, has engaged and, thanks to its potential, is feeding. It is a delicate and important moment and to say - as I have unfortunately heard - that there is a sale or a vote movement between Verdini and Zanda is a very serious act. Zanda's my group leader. [[Comments of Senator Martelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u38	Senator, please address the Assembly. Please, senators, be quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u39	FAVERO (PD). It gives us the confidence and we gave it to him by electing him our Parent Company. I therefore consider it serious to launch the accusation in a broadcast with a wide audience, which reaches millions of Italians. As a Senator of the Republic (role from which they derive rights, but also many obligations), I invite those who are aware of facts related to a sale and have the evidence to go immediately to the appropriate offices and denounce in the prosecutor's office what they claim. If not, I urge you to use other languages and not launch unfounded and instrumental accusations. I say this for the serenity in our work and not to spread falsehoods that further poison a climate that I think is already tense. [[Comments of Senator Castaldi]] It is the dignity of the Senate, which is a high House, and, therefore, I think I have the right to say such a thing. I conclude by recalling that the present reform, which seems to have no direct impact on the daily lives of Italians, is part of a framework of reforms carried out by the Government and the Democratic Party as, among the last, those concerning the world of work, the reality of the school, the public administration and the tax system. As mentioned, it aims to improve the governance of our country and to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of our system. Starting from the beginning would indeed be a regrettable and difficult mistake to correct and explain to our citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zavoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard very strict and rigorous words so far. I will venture into something more modest and, if you will allow me, even more confidential, in a tone that I hope is not too exhorting, because it is not up to me to take moralistic attitudes. I want to tell you that I do not veil having read in the daily newspaper "Unity" how much I am going to resume here, in the sense that my judgment on what I have read does not undergo any ideological conditioning. At the same time, however, I cannot deny that I am under the impression produced by an article by Alfredo Reichlin in his former newspaper, that he directed nothing less than from 1957 to 1962 and that today it is radically revised and correct. It is much more than an analysis of the controversial and very animated story of the reform reserved for the project of a new Senate. I will say, with a few words removed from a verbal storm of unusual proportions, that the authoritative critical figure dedicated by Reichlin to the vexed question has a tonality that crosses not only the nature of the problem, but the political interpretation of a reality that on the reforms, after a few decades, has updated the formal core, the ritual modalities and - as I can say - the concrete measures of the respective procedures, so much so that the changes made on the most delicate and protected texts of the interpretative rules are obvious. It is the so-called change of register and speed, as called by socio-analysts devoted to the often unusual and surprising mutations of a less canonical - even dogmatic - way of conceiving the most up-to-date and legitimate opportunities of the mythical (i.e. not rarely just declamation) change. I am particularly close to Reichlin's remarks when he loyally states that politics in its most rational aspects is no longer measurable in terms of greater or lesser radicality than the old conflicts and, therefore, because of this, paradoxical that may seem, even the new extremisms appear to be lingering. Reformism, on the other hand - I think it means - cannot fail to have a natural inclination even to the duty of a well-governed recklessness. Finally, Reichlin adds: It is a question of putting Italians in a position to respond to challenges that test their identity as a people. The government is pleased with what it is doing, and I do not think it is frankly exalted, but the party is not the government, nor can it be only its megaphone: it must have a social thought, that is, an idea of the real forces to be put on the field to guarantee the estate and the growth of opportunities that, in the first place - it goes without saying - concern the country, which can be, of course, more interested in reforms than in the diatribes, on a separation that has never benefited the left and not even its more resolute and democratic face: the center-left. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I take on, in full and natural modesty, the responsibility, not only political, to feel that we are understood, each and every one of us, no one excluded, in the Hegelian paradox that everyone is right in history at the same time. I do not renounce to mention this all too enlightened philosophical bizarreness because it would be a serious legacy, for those who were to carry out the new functions of this House, the solitary exculpation of having been excluded from it rather than feeling recognized in the law, even before in the role, of those who take part in a conceptual distinction, then in particular political, about an issue that is not prejudiced only by one party, according to a democratic rule animated by distinction and confrontation, according to the crucial principle of a dialectic kept alive by facing majorities and minorities. I say this not by lucrating on a merely arithmetical account, but by referring to the only relevance, even here, even so, constitutional. And I repeat even more convinced that the word 'ricacotto', heard yesterday in this House, took on an even more abrasive tone because it used an expression not only linguistically politically, but also significantly and ethically relevant; moreover, pronounced by a very respectable colleague who acted dialectically, certainly not in the name of Hegel's cumbersome paradox. From the debate that has taken shape, the legacy of this House would describe a distance certainly not marginal and less insignificant in a Chamber where, among many and even resounding contrasts, experiences and political perspectives are ripening; in a political season that lives the delicate, clean, but not incorrigible face of a Europe called to new, many and no longer postponeable opportunities, from which we cannot exclude in all its parts what benefits a country determined to want to respect the reasons and the forms of change, to which a well understood and governed resolve must be devoted. Ladies and gentlemen, if I had any persuasive ability, I would immodestly invite you, present and absent, to believe that we grow up thanks to the problems that we are forced to solve, that it is good to solve and that it is urgent to resolve, with a conviction that is contained in a word: together. As for history - I apologise to Hegel - Gardner argued that either you face it together or you will have the destiny to continue to call yourself a chronicle. Perhaps for this reason the historian Biagio De Giovanni postulates the need to make of the chronicle our own history, a daily story: to have it before your eyes, to understand where we are going, where our mistakes also lead us, if it is errors. Now let me put my mind down. I would be tempted to call it, with all due respect, a sort of revival of a syndrome that I would call Bertinotti, a character that I like very much and that I use here perhaps unnaturally, but to give a different tone to this somewhat serious tone that ended up taking this intervention. That of Biagio De Giovanni is an idea of an intellectual, but it is induced by this phenomenon of the speed that is taking us not well know where. However, his idea has the advantage of not encouraging distance. It is a question of rediscovering courage, moral and civil strength, of recognizing oneself in one's own mistakes, of seeking the possibility, as Fr.Milani said (but he risks being too spiritual a reference) when he said that politics is getting out of it together. I do not aspire to unanimisms which are not of our time or of this particular issue, but I believe that it is right on the part of each of us, no one excluded, to call into question something of himself, to see what can be reconciled around something instead of putting us back together. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Mussini, Rubbia and Taverna. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u42	Senator Augello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u43	Madam President, I had prepared a speech, which I would have liked to make in the Commission on the substance, which retraced the content of the amendments that had characterized the role of the New Centre in the first reading. Unfortunately, this intervention has not been possible, because the events that have caused us to crash in this House have not made this work possible, so I am forced to make a completely different intervention. In fact, the climate in which we are holding this debate, the illations, the comments, the things that are read on the Net are not the ideal background, Madam President, neither in the relationship between the Executive and the institutions (I speak of the President of the Senate), nor in the internal relations of the majority, nor in the internal relations of the majority party: they are not the ideal conditions, Madam President, to make a constitutional reform. We have the majority constraints that we have honored and that we intend to continue to honour, so we have also supported this precipitation in going to this House, but that does not mean that we do not realize the extraordinary difference between entrusting the fate of this reform to a high, cultured mediation, for what is also my noble perception of President Finocchiaro, and entering a Chamber in which we entrust ourselves to the rethinking of the last hour and to some accounting evaluation of Mr Verdini, whom I also have in sympathy, but whose palmarès in parliamentary accounting matters I fear is disastrous, Minister Boschi; we must therefore also pay attention to this type of trust. But we still have a logical time to get this thing back on track. Gambling is not always the best solution. The international literature helps us in this; Rhett Butler, the adorable scoundrel of "Via with the wind" of Mitchell, insisting very much, ends up being nothing but "The player" of Dostoevsky as a young man; therefore it is necessary to some extent to understand that the boundary between gambling and ludopathy lies in the fact that gambling cannot be continually repeated. This reform had a very broad basis of consensus at first reading; it had involved large rates of opposition; however, it had finally found a point of convergence within the Democratic Party, had the support of the New Right Centre, which had had to give up, overwhelmed by the effects and posthumousness of the Nazarene, something that perhaps, if we had done so, we would now find ourselves in another situation. With 70% of Italians asking to be able to choose the senators - senators advisors, in our case, because they are also regional advisers - perhaps, if our amendment that proposed the list at the regional elections had passed at first reading, with the possibility of indicating the senators by the electorate, we would have another debate today. However, my intervention cannot be technical, because there is also a need to make political clarity, for my part, which is the Leader of the Group of the People's Area in the 1st Commission, on certain rumors that have circulated. Our position is identical, as President Finocchiaro and Minister Boschi well know, to what we had during the first reading: we believe that this is a reform that can find some points of greater balance only by restoring some of the prerogatives that we all decided that the new Senate should have and that the House has then indisputably deleted, and if we solve the problem of giving the electoral body the possibility of a choice, also to balance the situation related to Italicum, which in fact freezes in summit decisions the two-thirds of Parliament. That was our position at first reading and that remains our position at second reading. It is a position shared by everyone, even by those like myself, more than others, who really consider this phase of collaboration that began with the Letta Government and passed through the Renzi Government, precisely because the final parable of this collaboration should coincide with the constitutional reform, with the referendum, if possible with a more decisive action to reduce the tax pressure and also with a reform of taxation, which, if the economic indicators are confirmed, should open a phase in which we return to normality, because there is an electoral law to vote and there is a situation that allows to reunite a normal dialectic between different poles and proposals. Imagine, then, if anyone among us can ever think of doing without concluding this troubled path. We believe, however, that the way in which we are proceeding cannot but give rise to concern within the majority and in the country: to arrive in the Chamber in the situation in which we find ourselves, in the uncertainty of what will happen in what has actually become the third Chamber of the country, that is, the direction of the Democratic Party, that being the most important party of the coalition, normally should come up with a unique proposal, especially when we arrive at the second reading, while understanding the hardship that obviously lies behind all this, while respecting not only the good faith, but also the dignity of that debate, cannot fail to worry, because the fact is that we are in this Chamber on the eve of a series of votes, some of which, among other things, will also be secret votes, in a situation in which it is not at all clear, in the end, whether or not we can find a unanimous convergence, not as wide as that of the first reading - because this seems no longer possible - but at least as wide as the majority is broad. Can we, however, respect all the positions expressed so far, tell us that a constitutional reform can walk on such a thin line? I believe that the hours we have before us, still to be spent in this debate in this House, are precious hours to rebuild a climate that also gives a different solemnity to what we are doing. Madam President, if I, who has a fairly clear and well-defined history, can ever develop a normal and balanced debate if I have to read constantly on some agency the effects of an alleged - I do not know how real - campaign purchases within the Senate. The majority should, at least, find themselves on these proposals, but if this is not the case, we must stop and reason. We do not need so much to look for it in this House, but we must have, at the outset, at least the majority that we have formed, and that was extraordinary because it was aimed at constitutional reform. And it serves to maintain this extraordinary character, which also gives her dignity. Otherwise, this reform becomes a catch of opportunities, which I have already seen on other occasions on the vote of confidence in other legislation. And I can assure you that it doesn't usually end well. It is an operation that does not give solidity or authority to the executives: let alone a constitutional reform. Mr Zavoli says that we can call this situation, a little jokingly, Bertinotti's syndrome. It is worse: Bertinotti, in fact, colleague Zavoli, did not make a mystery of his nature and his autonomy, also because he had his own party. He had, as it were, structurally organized himself to be Bertinotti. We are in a completely different situation here. We are in a situation in which we take the heart of the rules of civil coexistence. It is decided to give a historic and extraordinary character to an understanding that initially involves the entire right centre (at least the League) and then we arrive at the escapes of these hours, in which, if there were not to be a convergence in this blessed direction, we go, to the garibaldina, to seek the majority in this House. I do not think that this path is a suitable path to the issues on the table and on the carpet. That is what we must say clearly. As we must clearly say, however, with regard to our elementary and simple demands, which concern the insertion of the vote on the list and the restoration of the functions of the Senate, which the House has overwhelmed, frankly we would hope to have the attention and a conclusive understanding before the meeting of the Democratic Party leadership takes place, which, unfortunately, we are not registered. Unfortunately, in my life I have never considered joining the Communist Party, the DS, the PDS and the Democratic Party. And at 54, I find it hard to reconsider. These are matters which are without prejudice to the possibility that we still have a good job to do. These are issues on which the linearity of our position is very clear. We have also indicated the possibility of putting a hand on the issue of lists, among other things outside Article 2. Therefore, it is a feasible and perfectly feasible measure. But these are issues that concern us as members with equal dignity of this extraordinary majority, which must be demonstrated now, in these hours. So, is it possible to grasp what is good in this debate in these hours, in the majority? I think so. I know many of the protagonists of the ongoing confrontation in the Democratic Party and, therefore, I see where the stakes are so important. But how could we explain outside here, Minister Boschi, if, at some point, we missed a possibility in these hours, which will hardly be repeated, for some issues that do not strictly concern, as always in political matters, the constitutional order of the country or the model that we are going to try to build? There is politics, all possible reflections can be carried out and, even, it is even legitimate for oppositions to speak of an authoritarian turning point. In reality, however, the point is that we have at our fingertips an opportunity that I do not think we can sacrifice for the lack of the basic ingredients to be used in a constitutional reform, which are a sense of mediation, moderation and the ability to find solutions. Politics is also this because, otherwise, they would do it in casinos, whereas they do it in parliaments. Evidently, politics needs, at certain times, that figure, that touch that distinguishes a ruling class from a simple group. And I believe that in the repertoire of this majority there are all these ingredients: this is our concern, in the last few hours, and frankly others we do not have, but we read them in the newspapers. Even the references made to the electoral law do not date from today. As you will all remember, the New Right Centre had also tabled amendments on Italicum, on the coalition prize, which were rejected, but we are not discussing this. We repeat a series of positions, which are always the same, but they are independent of each other, and our votes in this House want to go ahead with a path, for which we have paid an important price: we have crossed two years of media fires that would have destroyed an elephant, but we have done it in the interest of this country, so we want to get to the result of that path. Unfortunately, however, the final mediation does not depend on us, so we can only hope that this intervention has made it clear, so then we stop reading nonsense in the newspapers, because we have gone this way - which we have supported, because it is not our business to solve the problems present within our ally party, which we respect, at this moment - certain and confident in the fact that there is now the common sense to bring back a majority aligned in this House. If that does not happen, our votes will not fail in any case, but there will be a great disappointment on our part, because we will see very strongly the danger of a stunted and shriveled adoption of rules that, not later than a few months ago, seemed to be able to involve everyone, from the first to the last, in this Parliament, or almost, with the only exception - due, moreover, to the League and the 5 Star Movement, who had said clearly from the beginning that they did not want to know about this story. The very fact that he had to make this intervention - and not one more referring to constitutional matter - I hope it will not be interpreted as an excess of rudeness or blatant affirmation of a concerned state of mind. It is not only this, however: if we do not solve these problems in the way that I am trying to outline with very modest dialectical means and with the little time I have available, I fear that we will have a bad awakening at the end of this path, because we have removed a series of elements from the dusty archive of the failed reforms and we have rearranged them on the table, but on the final, for issues that I cannot consider memorable, insuperable or frankly so right, we will not be able to explain it to the outside. Everyone, you and we, would even have the problem of explaining why we had an abnormal majority if we could not do so. I therefore ask our colleagues in the Democratic Party and the Commission and the President-in-Office of the Council not to take this speech in its harshest aspect, but in its most important political content: we are here to do our duty, someone else must do theirs. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Guerra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u44	Madam President, I would like to focus my speech on a subject which I believe has been partly neglected, probably also in the first passage we had in the Senate and which relates in particular to relations between the State and local authorities. This issue is important because we are setting up a Senate of the self-governments, which we have talked about so many times, and I think it is important to frame this reform that we want to make in the more general discourse of the reconsideration of the division of competences between the State and the Regions, in the role that the Senate must play, but also in the financing system dedicated to local authorities. The fundamental choice proposed in this draft law with regard to the division of powers, as has already been mentioned, concerns the abolition of shared legislative competence. It is very important to understand where these areas of shared legislative competence have gone. While it was obvious, in the debate preceding the constitutional reform proposal, that some issues, such as strategic infrastructure and large transport networks, have ended up among the exclusive ones of the state, it is a little less so if the environment has ended up there, for example. So a little more detail on these subjects, which have ended up here or there, perhaps should be done. The point I would like to focus on is that overcoming essentially competition and therefore providing for a concomitant possibility of intervening with its legislative powers on the same subject by the State and the Regions is historically virtually impossible. The historical trend is on the contrary; even purely federal systems - such as, for example, the United States - have witnessed this process of contamination of competing federalism in which, in relation to their roles and with a definition of what the one and the other can do, there is a contextual intervention. Of course, this proposal for constitutional reform does not miss this idea at all and, indeed, it fully recognises it. What you try to do is better define the related functions. For this reason it seems to me that it is important - this reminds us of the documentation of the offices of the Senate - to go and clarify better. In fact, I believe that we still have room to clarify the role by avoiding the inclusion in the Constitution of a set of places which do not have a clear content. We have exceeded the terms of general rules and in various situations we have introduced general and common provisions on very important issues. It remains in the exclusive power of the State to define general and common provisions on many subjects and everything else - that is, everything that is not general and common provision - goes instead to the Regions. However, if we fail to give specific content to this new term, we will find again in the case before the Constitutional Court the same problem that we wanted to avoid. I raise this problem because we have not solved the issue using different terms: general and common provisions, provisions of principle, rules aimed at ensuring uniformity, general principles, fundamental principles, coordination rules, general order profiles. They all indicate themes that may have a content similar to or equal to that of general and common rules, and that will not be easy to define. It's probably just a coordination problem. I believe that it would be useful - this is a task which I think can be the responsibility of an amendment proposal from the Government at this stage, since unfortunately we do not have the rapporteur - to try to understand whether this set of different phrases to express concepts that are probably to a large extent the same is useful. It is better, perhaps, where possible, to achieve a homogenization. The issue of reclassification of competences has a significant impact on the choices made in the past regarding the autonomy of decentralised bodies and, in particular, as regards legislative competence, on the role of the Regions, even if we think that the possibility is added, extended to practically all fields and recognized of the so-called supremacy clause, on a proposal from the Government, to bring back to the state legislative possibility virtually all matters in case this is required by the economic and legal unity of the State or by the national interest. This speech, as you will recall, was present in the Constitution before the 2001 reform and is now being reproposed. I do not, therefore, share in part this shift of such a significant weight, which takes place in such a drastic way with regard to certain issues. First of all, I would like to mention the environment, an area where I believe that a regional legislative power should also be maintained, although within a framework of principles defined by state legislation. In this shift and in the fact that there is however a recognition of a necessary coexistence of state and regional legislation in many areas it becomes essential to establish what the Senate must do. It is very important for the Senate to have the opportunity to express its views on matters which, however, concern the activities of decentralised bodies. Unfortunately, this is not exactly the case, and here too I would like to draw attention to a very important subject. At first reading in the Senate we had tried to address this issue, defining a perhaps overly complex system of legislative procedures. Alongside unparalleled subjects, in which obviously the role of the Senate is possible and little accident, and alongside equal matters, in which, of course, the role of the Senate is equal to that of the Chamber, we had inserted a reinforced legislative procedure, in which there was an unparalleled procedure; however, if the Senate had pronounced itself for certain changes on certain matters, the Chamber could have ignored it only if supported by a qualified majority, which was not particularly demanding. It was in fact the absolute majority and, since the House is elected with a majority system, it would not have been particularly demanding. This prediction has been eliminated, with the exception of the laws that concern the supremacy of the State, and it seems to me that this poses a very serious problem, which we must face because there are inconsistencies. Both Chambers, for example, have the possibility to express themselves on the provisions of principle on the associative forms and on the order of the Municipalities, while it is not equal, absolutely not equal, the discipline that concerns the ordinamental profiles of the agencies of wide area. This is not logical because, when we consider the organization on the territory of the institutions, we do not see why the Senate can decide in an equal way on important aspects that concern the Municipalities and cannot decide on the design of the fundamental principles of those that are no longer the Provinces, but are the agencies of wide area, that organize at a higher level, the functions that the Municipalities too small, in such a fragmented way cannot carry out. So it would seem logical for me to revisit this issue. Since the general provisions of the Municipalities have all ended up in matters of exclusive competence, perhaps - perhaps it is not mine, because I am convinced of what I say and I put it to everyone's attention - the Senate should be allowed, in defining the general norms of the Municipalities, the fundamental principles and the solf that I have indicated before, to express itself in a strengthened way or in an equal way. I am not blocking this difference, as long as there is a serious possibility of expressing myself, because this is the way to avoid litigation, which is the principle from which we started. If there is a sharing, albeit in respect of the different competences, this can be a way to get to an ordered system of lawmaking. There is also one aspect that is particularly close to my heart: I consider it wrong that it has been brought into the category of matters of exclusive competence and that there is no possibility of expressing itself in a strengthened and meaningful way by the Senate on a set of matters crucial for the functioning and especially for the financing of the decentralised system. Financing - let me say, as a finance scientist - is crucial to enable institutions to perform their functions. The coordination of public finance, the coordination of the tax system, the equalization of financial resources and the indicators of cost and standard needs - these are the four fundamental issues to know if the institutions will have or will not have sufficient resources, will have or will not have spaces of autonomy and what are the objectives that will be assigned to them - are completely out of what we call the Senate of the self-governments, that is, they are the exclusive power of the State and on them the Senate of the self-governments do not pronounce itself, if not in any way and without any power, even strengthened, compared to the other House. I therefore seriously wonder - not in a polemic, but as a scholar - whether we are doing a Senate of self-government. I believed in the Senate of Autonomies and supported him in the first step in this House. I believe that, but I also believe that we must ask ourselves whether these fundamental matters can be expunged from its powers and can we continue to call it the Senate of the Self-Governments. I think that this is not possible and I would like to draw the House's attention to this point. We have never had the opportunity to actually discuss these issues, because others are the issues in the spotlight, but I think we should find the way to put them into question. I would like to take one last step, remembering that Title V of the 2001 reform had led to a great drive towards autonomy, perhaps even excessive. By pushing for autonomy, this reform had designed a financing system which was largely based on the levers, even autonomous, of decentralised bodies and, in particular, had abolished the possibility of financing decentralised entities through transfers: this is a total anomaly compared to all the systems I know, except Germany, which is a separate system and is not comparable in this respect. Therefore, in our current constitutional regime and in what emerges from the draft law under consideration, the financing of decentralised bodies, except for extraordinary cases, takes place only through own taxes or partnerships and therefore through the tax system: there is therefore no possibility of making transfers. This mechanism would be fine in a highly decentralised system - even if it does not happen in such systems - in which autonomy is very wide and in which we are concerned to leave a large part of the resources in the territories, intervening only with equalization instruments. But it does not work when there is instead a centralization of functions that, in part, I myself consider useful on some issues: therefore, I do not want to make controversy again. When there is a centralization of functions, therefore, to highlight elements of solidarity and national unity and when the problem arises that the effective implementation of these instruments will arrive on the territories, the transfer is an element not only indispensable, but also very useful. I am referring, for example, to the essential levels of performance or to the general and common provisions on social policies, education and health, which need to be genuinely operational. Therefore, our ideal system of autonomy is to grant sufficient resources to carry out the functions, making the decentralised body accountable to the citizens and also providing for monitoring. We have seen, however, that this system does not stand. How, then, do the other countries do so? Even when they assign exclusive power in matters such as health - let us take the example of Canada - they hold the leverage, because it is conditioning. These countries therefore attribute to an institution a function, which will be carried out in the spaces of autonomy that it has available, control it and, if the function is not carried out, the money is not allocated. The tied transfer, especially in matters which, at the end of this reform, we have decided to bring under strict state control, represents the lever through which this same control becomes operational, for the good of the citizens. So I think it is essential not to keep the functions and funding disconnected in our heads, as we have done, because this element has been neglected. We have strengthened a demand for efficiency elements in resource management, which is crucial. Of course, just as standard costs and requirements are then implemented, it is another, very complicated speech that I would not do here. It is therefore important to maintain more flexible, more appropriate and more adaptable forms of financing to the new context and to the objectives that we want to achieve. I should like to conclude by recalling that a choice has been made, which concerns Article 119 of the Constitution, which is partly semantic, but which betrays a real concern. We support the fact that the resources provided by the Constitution for the financing of decentralised bodies, as was said, should enable them to finance the functions assigned to them. This proposal, which we are discussing here, is even more drastic, because it is said that the resources guarantee the full financing of public functions. This is a commitment that must be substantiated, because the detachment between the assigned functions and the allocated resources occurred dramatically in these years of financial emergency, in which the process of federalism, as designed by Law No 42 of 2009, for external reasons, obvious and understandable, was submerged, by a set of emerging laws, which however led to this distance. So I want to emphasise this commitment contained in the constitutional reform text, in which I believe. In conclusion, however, I would like to point out that if, in order to understand what are the resources that ensure this right link between financing and functions, the Senate of the Self-Governments will not be called to express itself, I do not think we would have a real Senate of the Self-Governments. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u45	Senator Astorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u46	Madam President, today we cannot fail to see a different climate in the speeches that have been made in this House, starting with the intervention of the leader of the Democratic Party in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Doris Lo Moro, but also from the clarification of Senator Augello, the leader of the People's Area in that Chamber, on positions that I think are also doing justice to journalistic illations. I therefore think that the climate is fruitful and that in it one can mature the possibility of reaching an agreement the widest and most shared. Of course there are some points: on the one hand it is stressed that there is no sharing of the first reading to the Senate that, as Senator Augello recalled, was very wide, but on the other it is not said that all colleagues of Forza Italia who yesterday came out to crucify this reform, had all voted disciplinedly this reform at first reading, just as they had voted the Italicum to the Senate. Furthermore, it is not clear why we would have made such a massive mistake of electing such a negative person, as President Mattarella, whose election then led to such a radical change by a large slice of the centre-right in this House. This is a point that must be remembered and emphasized: there is no change, not even on Italicum at first reading. Indeed, the Italicum in the House had far more negative elements than what was finally approved by Parliament. In fact, in addition to the changes made to the House, on which I believe we all agree, in terms of the distribution of functions between the Chamber and the Senate, in the first reading at the Senate they basically balanced themselves better than the radical positions emerged in the House, but they never explain why. In fact, when there is no part of Parliament in an instrumental way, it is also said that reforms cannot be made with those who are in it, but the fact is that it becomes difficult to do so when other instruments are taken to go against the reforms. I go to the knot, because unfortunately we are overwhelmed both by the media storm and by an element that emotionally is more grasped, that is, that of the direct electivity of the Senate. But there are some points that are never addressed; on the contrary, now my colleague, Mr Guerra, has returned to it. It's a bit like we're Alice in Wonderland, because so many of the themes listed by my colleague, Guerra, are indeed to be deepened, but it's been months, indeed years, that we're deepening them. Of course, I believe that corrections must be made now, even if we grasp some things that have been said, but we cannot fail to point out that this constitutional reform contains elements that will be the basis of the future democratic life that are not adequately underlined: I am referring to the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution or the abolition of the Provinces. I hear shouting against the Delrio law, which objectively involves complications (although those who know the local authorities know that they are more financial complications), but let's not say that the abolition of the Provinces in the Constitution is the only possible way to move forward. This is the law that abolishes the Provinces, amends some passages of Title V of the Constitution (which, objectively, after years must be reworded), reformulates and repeals the bicameralism paritarian. We are the only nation in the world to have since 1948 a thousand parliamentarians doing the same thing. As Mrs Lo Moro said, the decree-law is finally ratified within sixty days. That is what has been happening for years now. Those who do, like me, the parliamentarians in the first legislature feel on themselves the mortification that 90% of their work is to ratify decrees-laws. It is a reversal of activity: I am elected by the people to legislate; the government should implement what the laws indicate to it and the judiciary should control. The opposite is the case. But this is because, with this formula - I see it when I am rapporteur - bringing draft legislation to the end of the process is practically difficult, if not absolutely impossible. CRIMI (M5S). Money to the parties. Mr ASTORRE (PD). In fact, this is a form of bicameralism so heavy that it is enough to change a comma in one of the two branches of Parliament that it becomes impossible. We are the only great country in the world - unless we want to point out Romania as our ideal model - to have this schizophrenic form of lawmaking. CRIMI (M5S). How he saved you! Mr ASTORRE (PD). I think it is the people who have to decide, with only one House, and in this bill they say so. I am grasping all the positive spirit of what the leader Lo Moro and other critics of this bill have expressed. I cannot understand why italicum has changed our mind about the goodness of constitutional reform. I have the impression - and I say this - that it is, instead, the "Bertinotti syndrome" - said Zavoli and now again also my colleague Augello - that is the idea that we must drop a government on some pretext. This was my idea before I listened objectively to certain positions expressed today, which seem very close to the possibility of an agreement. Italicum is a law that presents problems, and I have said so in the Chamber, in the Group and in all public bodies, even in a frank confrontation with the President of the Council. But when it is said that 60% of parliamentarians will be pointed out by political forces, it is not said that 60% (instead of 63%) of parliamentarians of political force, what will it be, who will rule the country will be elected by voters. CASTALDI (M5S). Thank you! Mr ASTORRE (PD). This is the theme. Of the 340 MPs who will rule Italy from Italicum onwards, 240 - for the first time since 1992 - will be directly elected by the people, who will then be the driving force behind the election of the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court. That's why I think criticism is a little instrumental. There is indeed a limit - and I have said so - given that political forces that are defeated by the electoral competition are basically only the leaders who enter Parliament. But there is also a very positive part, namely that two thirds, i.e. 240 Members on a majority of 340, are elected by the people. To say that this makes us change our mind about the reform of the Senate, and in particular about the electivity, I think it is a delicate and unsatisfying passage. On the other hand, if we want the good of the institutions, I think it is very close to the possibility of reaching a solution on the indication of the regional advisers who will have to come here. In this regard too, we must have a memory. The first draft of the constitutional reform provided for the mayors. Basically, it was the mayors who were part of the Senate of the Autonomouss. It was this branch of Parliament that said that the mayors were not well, because they are mostly the expression of the Democratic Party. It is this branch of Parliament that wanted to change the text, bringing the number of mayors from one hundred to twenty. The Regional Councils will elect the representatives of the Senate of the Autonomous States, because they represent the proportionality of the political forces in the field. That was not the initial proposal and we amended it in Parliament. In addition, I believe that it is right that voters should be given the opportunity to choose regional councillors to hold the post of senators. If we want to bring home the reform, there is a political and technical possibility of arriving at this type of indication. However, I think we need to pay attention to the so-called Bertinotti syndrome, that is to say to the idea that a government can be sent home. In fact, it is clear that we are talking about a constitutional reform and not about Article 4 of the draft law delegates to the Government for the reform of the RAI canon, which can also be rejected, as a Parliament can decide independently. As Senator Augello recalled, we are talking about the architrave that founded the participation in the Government of political forces that also presented themselves in an alternative way to the elections. We are talking, that is, about the architrave on which this Government was born and which, moreover, was also at the base of the previous Government. I do not think that, even for the continuation of the parliamentary term, we can ignore the fact that such an important reform cannot go through and should not be brought to ratification as soon as possible, given the four readings by Parliament. It should also be stressed that, even if not imposed, it has been decided from the outset that it will be the people, through the referendum, to say whether the reform has been done well or badly and to ratify it. I think there is no closure on the part of both the majority and the government. I asked Minister Boschi a question first because I did not remember a figure: compared to the original text there were 134 changes and - in my opinion - at the end of the process we will reach almost 200. I believe it is instrumental to say that a law that will eventually record about 200 amendments is armored or does not see the hand of the representatives of the people to change it and make it more appropriate to what Parliament thinks. There is an opportunity to come together to an agreement and to enlarge the adoption of this fundamental bill as much as possible, but we all need the good will of everyone to grasp the important openings that have been made in this House today and to say that we must bring home a reform that we have been talking about for thirty-three years and that it has been in the parliamentary classrooms so often. I believe that, if the reform has a flaw, it is not to be too fast or imposed, because we have been saying for thirty-three years that we must overcome bicameralism, reform Title V of Part II of the Constitution (because it is badly done and has given wrong application), repeal the Provinces and reform the costs of politics, reducing the number of parliamentarians from 1000 to 600. [[Comments by Senators Cioffi and Taverna.]] Since we've been saying this for thirty-three years, somewhere we have to start and I think we're starting on the right foot. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u47	Senator Taverna, if you like to participate in the debate, you can register.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u50	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, I am sorry to interrupt this important debate on reforms, but I would like to point out, with courtesy, an omission, or error, in the shorthand report of the afternoon sitting No 506 of 16 September. The mistake is about a senator who is paid by citizens by the beauty of forty-two years. The senator in question is, in fact, municipal councillor in 1983; provincial council member in the years 1985-1990; mayor in 1990; exponent of Forza Italia, and then Popolo della Libertà, in 1995; provincial councillor in the Province of Caserta; city councilor from 2005 to 2007; in 2010 still municipal councillor and, therefore, deputy with the People of Freedom (elected in the Campania 1 district). He then joined the Responsible Initiative; he even became secretary of the Chamber; then, in the 2013 politics, with the PdL he arrived in the Senate; in November 2013 from the People of Liberty he passed to Forza Italia and, four days later, to Grandi Autonomie e Libertà. In January 2014 he was with Forza Campania by Nicola Cosentino; inspiring Campania in Network by Vincenzo De Luca, candidate of the Democratic Party. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get to the point, Senator. CASTALDI (M5S). I mean, a citizen employee for forty-two years. In the shorthand report, dots are found in place of the word "representants." Since there are so many videos and audio files of that session - there was the press and, therefore, the thing can be found - I ask that the shorthand report be amended before the approval of the Minutes relating to that session. This is also because, Mr President, I think you agree with me that there are no scumbags in your pockets, but you can certainly be scumbags in your soul. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u51	Senator Castaldi, in order to be correct and to remain in the Minutes, I would remind you that you will have to request this amendment again before the Minutes on the sitting to which you refer, which has not yet been adopted in the Chamber. She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel the duty of reflection to express support for the value of an installation that I fully share. Considering the restart of the country and the world of work, the measures developed for growth, economic recovery, the restart of the school, with the revival of school building and the elimination of precariousness, in which the controversies built ad hoc are visibly extinguished; at a time of revival, which is felt in the country, of a new credibility acquired in the new European Parliament and in Europe, thanks to the ability of our country to place itself as a model of widespread reception, place of asylum and return, on which European countries have begun to follow us, within this context, constitutional reform is really an opportunity for the country, in a delicate and important phase of revival. It is a reform that expresses and requires innovation, more territory, more Europe, greater slimliness and decision-making speed, greater efficiency, more credibility and lightening of the bureaucratic machine inside, and not outside the democratic process, as a modern country requires. The scope of the reform is being developed in some parts in its core objectives. It does not mean a reduction in democracy, but on the contrary it means putting our democratic institutions in a position to decide, in a more correct institutional and interinstitutional relationship, as Senator Lanzillotta pointed out before. The overcoming of bicameralism was the result of a political debate already present in different forms well before the Democratic Party, since 1996, and therefore in the thesis of the Olive tree, in particular in the thesis n. 4, which provided for an overcoming of bicameralism equal to a Senate of the autonomouss during the Prodi Government (first mentioned Senator Favero). What, therefore, is proposed with the reform of the Senate is nothing more than what the Left had already hypothesized, foreshadowed, proposed in the past, and that it had never reached a point of completion. What we are trying to achieve today and to which we are trying to respond has been awaited for thirty-three years. Today, therefore, after 134 amendments approved by the House and Senate, after revisions of Commissions and Constitutionalists, we are at a point of arrival. Everything is under the sun, within a democratic process. The free fall of historical memory seems to have tarnished or overwhelmed more than anyone. Why, I wonder, should a reform of the Senate's functions, a change of constitutional model that responds to a more broadly territorial and European vision, leave the elective regulatory system unchanged and equal to itself (copy of conformity), unchangeable a priori, regardless of its purpose? Why should it not be legitimate that the second Chamber, in a differentiated bicameralism, is the representation of the autonomy, of the territorial institutions and the autonomy themselves, the territorial institutions to identify their representatives at the level of the future senators, with different functions? Why would direct voting be more democratic than indirect voting in a different institutional reality, in a dialectic between regions in a future Senate? I quote from Mr Cociancich's interesting speech yesterday. According to which a priori? The direct election would perhaps give greater legitimacy to an elective Chamber representing the autonomy, and why? Would that be a counterweight? Well expressed Anna Finocchiaro, and therefore I dare not make considerations in addition, because I have absolutely no competence. But my emphasis focuses on what is the foundation, what is the meaning, being the realities and the purposes of the two differentiated Chambers. It happens in the various models of democracy - as Senator Maran mentioned earlier - in the German, French and United Kingdom model, in which the second House does not have a direct election. The government had more courage than the others, it wanted to change. To the system of redundant counterweights intends to respond with the lightening of the weights, sometimes zavorre that slow down the country system. People expect results, not archaisms that do not help build, do not give added value in terms of democracy, but repeat schemes that slow down the processes of change and democratic innovation. As far as control and guarantee systems are concerned, our system is democratic. Several guarantee institutions secure parliamentaryism: the Constitutional Court, the Head of State as guarantor of democracy, the referendums, the investigative judiciary, the Constitutional Court, the TARs, the regional autonomy. We are called to new and important responsibilities. Let us assume that we must put in place a process of growth and a necessary change of step in the overcoming of a constitutional model of which, for many years, renewal has been invoked by several parties, called into question with rigidities that would prevent the overcoming of equal bicameralism. I hope that these stiffenings will be largely surpassable in a climate of responsibility and political sharing, within a democratic reform necessary for the country, in a path leading to a Senate representative of the autonomy, in the objective of a advancement of the governing democracy; progress that must not be wasted but valorized for solutions that look to the future of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u53	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u54	Madam President, I do not see the presence of the Government. Evidently, it is of little interest to know what we think. Mr ASTORRE (PD). The government's here! Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Oh, I'm sorry. I'm the one who's a certain age and I don't see well. I thought that Mr Boschi might be interested in some aspects, but that is clearly not the case. In the course of this general discussion, many colleagues have spoken to explain their thoughts on the content of this draft constitutional reform and on the method by which the entire parliamentary process has been conducted so far. For my part, I would like to make some sort of order, as far as possible, on some of the most debated and discussed issues in recent months. There is a need for a premise: I would like to make it clear that Forza Italia considers it appropriate to amend our Constitutional Charter. The reasons for a constitutional reform process are recognised as valid by virtually all political parties. To sum up, I remember among others the modernisation of the institutions, the end of the perfect bicameralism, the updating of the constitutional architecture, the correction of some parts that, in practice, have generated normative confusion, especially those concerning the competing subjects State-Regions, which in this bill has greatly deteriorated due to ignorance of the Government. Forza Italia was well aware of the need to respond to these issues as early as 2005, i.e. ten years ago, and that is why the centre-right drew up a set of constitutional reform rules approved by Parliament and then rejected by a confirmed referendum. I remember that if he had entered the Constitutional Charter for ten years now we would have seen the end of the perfect bicameralism and the halving of the number of parliamentarians, in a certainly more balanced way than the current reform. When, after ten years, the constitutional update input came from a central-left government, we certainly did not back down as the left did in 2005. Let's remember that all the PD, then DS, and the young Matteo Renzi gave much to do for the rejection of the referendum. We were immediately available for comparison in merit and content and it is a choice that we claim with great pride. It is a choice that characterizes a political force with a sense of institutional responsibility. We have made ourselves available for comparison with the Government and with all the political forces of majority and opposition and, through an honest and open exchange, we have arrived at a text definitely improved compared to the basic proposal originally presented by the Government. The senators sent to the House a refined constitutional structure that could be improved, a step forward from the start, to which they should have followed another step and a step further. Unfortunately, instead, the virtuous climate of political cooperation proper to a constituent phase has been interrupted by an inexplicable flight forward of the Secretary of the Democratic Party, as well as our Premier, on the occasion of the election of the new President of the Republic, to remedy a continuous congress of the PD, of which unfortunately our country is the one to make the expenses. In a passage that, just like the rewriting of constitutional norms, would require prudence and sharing of choice, the relative majority party has demonstrated a shortsightedness, arrogance and unacceptable political insensitivity, an unequivocal signal of untrustworthyness and institutional irresponsibility that has only anticipated what would inevitably have happened in the following weeks, in the process of constitutional reform. What we have all seen, ladies and gentlemen, was the attitude of a government which, in words only, was willing to dialogue with other political forces, but in fact was deaf to any real confrontation on the subject, so much so that for such an important reform we go to the House without a rapporteur. The government and the majority preferred the clash and the forcing of parliamentary procedures whenever the one-sidedly chosen line failed to assert itself. We could say a majority reform of the Constitution, a majority united only in fear of losing seats, because it is a deeply split majority, which will vote for fear of a dictator. Or we could say that this is not a reform of the Constitution, despite what is written in the epigraph of the bill, because the reforms of the Constitution are done when there is the accession of almost everyone around something common, because the Constitution is not just any law: it is made of a special paste that very few ovens can cook. These words could probably sound familiar to someone, because they were spoken in this same Senate in 2005 by Mr Fassone, a member of the DS. Precisely because of the desire to continue the reform process without accepting any proposal for dialogue with the other political forces, including its own political force, the House has returned to our examination a bill that has virtually seen the prerogatives of the new Senatorial Assembly reset and diminish the overall democratic guarantees of the institutional structure. In other words, almost those of the leader of the Union of center-left Romano Prodi in 2005, are creating the premises for a modern and very dangerous dictatorship of majority, indeed of the Prime Minister himself. The functions of the new Senate are reduced. It reduces the specific weight it will assume, both in the future legislative provision and in the election of the five constitutional judges of parliamentary appointment. Let us not forget that ten out of fifteen judges of the Constitutional Court will be elected on a political side that will win the elections with 25% of the votes obtained by 50% of the voters. Once again we have tabled, and will be tabling, substantive amendments, including that on the direct election of senators, which aim to restore dignity to the future Senate and democratic guarantees to the constitutional structure that will be outlined. We appeal once again to the Government, especially to the majority senators, because we are still in time to change some key points of the reform and dissolve, in a virtuous synthesis, the most critical passages of the text. We agree that we have postponed the process of constitutional revision too many times, and for too many years. We've been the victims, too. We have always represented the most modern liberal and modernising forces in the country and are ready to assume our responsibilities once again. However, if the Government continues its crazy race for the approval of this reform without changes, it will be remembered exclusively for having defaced our Constitutional Charter and deeply wounded the soul and spirit of the republican institutions and of all those who have fought to date to defend our country from a dictatorship unfortunately - alas - again incumbent. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u55	Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the third reading, a very delicate step, albeit controversial and always complex, given the nature of the debate on this constitutional reform. But it is a passage that can lead to a good solution. The climate of the debate, also here this morning, announces that there are all the conditions for reaching a shared agreement, not only within the Democratic Party but, indeed, thanks to this agreement within the Democratic Party, to call also oppositions to better assess, to find the most appropriate solutions, so that this can be another and true constituent moment. Of course, it is right, and it was good, to put aside the muscle test of those who, with good reason, support this provision. But it is also right to put aside instrumental attitudes, playing with the old approaches of the friend-enemy, with the overused use of obstructionism. In short, we must pass the word to dialogue, to good reasons, to a confrontation on the need to give the country a modern Constitution, to give the country, finally, a constitutional structure able to answer the deep questions that emerge in the controversial phase of crisis that we are still living. Much has been said, especially yesterday, when we discussed the constitutional prejudices, the usefulness of the reform. It is claimed that the country has other priorities. I think it's wrong. Of course, in Italy, this may have its own logic, but in an Italy that wants to get out of the crisis, different from how it entered it, become a modern State, become a modern society and lift up the flight, confirms the need to make constitutional reform as well. In essence, an integrated approach is needed to reforms, economic and social ones, which concern new citizenship rights, civil rights and constitutional reform. This integrated approach puts us in a position to deal with the crisis with the right vigour, which today brings us a glimpse of light and hope. Italetta must be put behind us. Italy, yes, has an unprecedented chance. And we must take into account the failures that we have spread behind our backs on constitutional reforms. But today, unlike those failures that have dotted mainly the Second Republic, there is a greater and positive push, and not only in society - even then there was - but this time within politics: that is why it is a precious opportunity. Those failures made us pay a deadly cost, they slipped politics towards the "I Party," which was the response to the failures of a modernization of the decision-making capacity of the legislative and executive power: the "I Party" in the center-left, the "I Party" in the center-right - indeed, it was its precursor and the creator - and even in the anti-politics party by name. This answer is not enough, as it is not investing in leadership without changing the legislative process or the structure and relationship between the House and the Senate. That "Party I" at the beginning may appear decisive, but then - as it has proved in those long twenty years of Second Republic - it becomes an element of weakness, indeed, of further crisis, since it delegitimizes not only politics, but the institutions themselves. That is why in our country we need a modernization that will enable our democracy to live those seasons that other democracies, in the world and in Europe, have lived. Many lived in the post-war period, when, as a result of that tragedy, they put their hands on the relationship between legislative and executive, and the deciding democracy took off. Of course, they also did so with many counterweights, something not known in the life of our society and our institutions. Antitrust, anti-corruption and conflict of interest, in many democracies, were loosed in advance, precisely because they strengthened the decisive moment. Perhaps we have done well in our country, with fascism and World War II behind us, to put more hand in the democracy of participation. It was a great moment for the social and democratic life of Italy. Many realities could face democracy and pieces of civil society feel involved and directly able to be represented in the institutions. In short, the popular parties, the proportional law, the perfect bicameralism helped to get our society out of those conditions of backwardness and make known to the economy, society and institutions democracy and economic development. But then we didn't change the pace. Then there was an involution and the Second Republic was an involutionary moment - alas - of the democratic life of our country. That is why the Third Republic must not make the same mistake: it must not linger on the "I Party," but instead have the courage to invest in constitutional reforms, putting the decision-making democracy in harmony with the participatory one. There are signs of democracy also involved in this reform, for example when it comes to the proposed referendum, which has been a long-awaited element for many years. And we still have to work on this, because participatory democracy and deciding democracy make a country great. The imbalance towards one of these aspects weakens, on the contrary, it hurts democracy itself. That is why there are all the conditions for further improvement of this text and for it to arrive at a widely agreed third-reading solution, ready for the fourth reading and then - why not - for a major cultural political debate, with referendums, in Italian society. In short, a high moment, finally, after just the many limits and the many failures of the Second Republic. Colleagues, an important choice has been made: in the face of a crisis, democracies usually emerge in different ways, but two main paths are being taken: towards forms of the presidential Republic or a strengthening of the decision at the heart of the legislative process. An important choice has been made, which is often not widely valued, which is to place the decision in this constitutional reform within the heart of legislative power. If we look at it, Rule 55 makes it clear that the House naturally holds the relationship of trust with the Government and is also said to exercise its function of political direction, as well as of course its legislative function and that of controlling the work of the Government. The Senate itself, colleagues, has an important function. It is redefined as the Senate of the Republic and it is said to represent the territorial institutions. But within this general vision of Republic it also has an important legislative and decision-making function on new areas, which were not present in our Constitutional Charter. I am thinking, for example, of when the link between the State and the constituent bodies of the Republic and between the latter and the European Union is being focused, when the Senate is confronted with the legislative acts of the European Union, with public policies, with the activities of the public administration and with the verification and implementation of the laws of the State. In short, it is a legislative function also this important, modern and advanced that shifts the decision from that path, which many democracies have legitimately undertaken, of the exclusive strengthening of the executive power instead of a decision that connects the executive power with the legislative power strengthening this power. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it does not seem to me that the conditions exist honestly to shout at the scandal, at an authoritarian turning point or, indeed, at a new fascism. It seems to me, however, that the choice made goes in a direction of great democratic guarantee, which finally allows us to say that our country also begins to get a modern step within the great democracies, which have already made this path before us and have achieved very important results. Of course, there is a need to strengthen what I used to call for and which has been done for some time in other democracies: it is even more necessary to allow this country to have free competition truly exercised within sound and transparent rules. We must ensure that this country is freed from corruption and mafias. We must finally put our hands on a law with great courage, which is really able to regulate the conflict of interest. We must ensure that access to information is a guarantee. And the participation of civil society and citizens must also find even stronger instruments than those that have already been positively identified in this constitutional reform. I mean, there's space, there's a possibility. There are cultural and political conditions for this qualitative leap to be made. And, therefore, we must not make the mistake of dividing ourselves on some issues that are still open or even of letting this great opportunity for constitutional reform precipitate, making it a cause for confrontation and also a reason for interrupting the legislature. In these hours and minutes, proposals are coming out to untie the knot that still divides us, the senate's electivity in first or second degree. There are good reasons for making the second degree choice. Even on this choice there is a well-established democratic culture in many democracies. Remember, colleagues, that having chosen that the Senate belongs to the Republic puts us in a position to make two paths: that of calling territorial democracies to responsibility (by virtue of power there are responsibilities) and also that of calling the central state to greater attention to territorial realities. It is a choice that must not be demonized. But the other choice also has good reasons. Finding the points of contact and seeing how the choice of second degree can improve and become elective, and not a second degree that detachs the advisors from the role of citizens, can be a path that finally dissolves this other divisive element and allows us to give breath to the reform, to present it well to the country and to say that finally, after twenty failed years of Second Republic, Parliament knows how to find solutions. The country with a referendum will be called to evaluate and decide and we will finally make this crisis a great opportunity to change and not a curse to suffer. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u57	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u58	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-508.ana.u59	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 22 September, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.45 p.m.
