ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u4	LANGELLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, my voting system is not working! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We note that Senator Giarrusso is present. The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1934, already approved by the House of Deputies. I call the President of the 7th Permanent Commission, Senator Marcucci, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u9	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the draft law on the reform of the national education and training system arrives in this House today after a complex process in the Commission. The text that the Commission brings to the House is the text that was already adopted at first reading in the House. From the examination in the Commission, but also and above all from the more than 40 hearings held in the Senate, which follow the more than 90 in the first reading, but carried out in a joint way, from the amending proposals presented by the majority and the opposition, from the debate that has involved the country, not only the teachers but the parents and the students, emerges with determination the necessity that the work done in the Chamber is improved and, if necessary, changed. These are the reasons which led, in the general debate in the 7th Commission, to a very involved, rich, sometimes hard and undoubtedly necessary confrontation in such a heartfelt context. In the meantime I register a fact that should be judged positive by the majority as by the opposition: the school, after years of marginality, has returned to be at the center of the cultural and political debate of our country and this is an important novelty and significant progress, because it means that, after years in which we have divided ourselves on details often of little importance, we are focusing on the real priorities of Italy. For this I believe we must thank, however you think, Minister Giannini and the whole Ministry of Education, University and Research for having felt the need to put back hand not to a simple reform, but to a law that aims to free the school, to put it in the condition to return to being the backbone of the country. I said before that the bill had a long parliamentary path: already in the listening phase of the audit subjects, the powerful materials delivered by the associations were immediately made available, read, studied, used by the parliamentary groups, also in order to produce changes as much as possible shared, this without forgetting that there had been a wide listening phase of teachers, school leaders, students, parents, experts in the field even before the presentation of the bill. In the Senate, at the end of the deadline, some 2,150 amendments and almost 100 agendas were tabled; the deadline for submitting sub-amendments to the four rapporteurs' amendments, which were about 700, was then opened. The oppositions on several occasions have advanced the proposal to arrive at the deletion of the articles relating to the assumption of the 100,000 precarious and the consequent presentation of a special decree-law to deepen at a later moment the aspects considered more controversial of the text approved by the Chamber. In particular, the issue of strengthening the figure of school leaders, the evaluation of teachers, the need for mechanisms that would allow for a fairer distribution of the liberal payments provided for by the school bonus. The discussion also focused on the criteria for hiring precarious workers, which, as is well known, was based on the principle that the first round of new permanent recruits should already have been included in the exhausting rankings (GAE) and should have passed a public competition; a choice to some extent taken for granted, because precisely the components of the run-out graduations are defined as first-rate precarious and the allocation to take them is already defined by the law of stability. If the aim of the Renzi Government is to reduce the scourge of the precarious, and then eliminate it, one could only begin with the so-called AGE. In the next phase, which will take place as early as 2016, recruitment will be conditional on the passing of a public competition and the possession of a teaching qualification. In this sense, the protests of many of those who are disappointed at the hope of being called during the first cycle of recruitment are understandable. It should also be said, however, that, according to the proposed law, they will be able to participate in the competition, seeing their teaching experience widely valued. An illustration of the amendments that have been tabled has therefore been launched, which has continued in a tight manner during seven sessions. Only on 15 June did the Commission's views on the measure and on Articles 1 and 3, followed by the opinions of the rapporteurs, the Government and the vote on a number, albeit limited (about 10) of amendments. In the following days, the Commission's opinions on the amendments replacing Articles 1 and 3 of the rapporteurs and their sub-amendments also arrived. It is in this complex context (I do not think that the House's interest in this matter is great, but we do not mind) that I have given the rapporteurs time to write a proposal for a summary, able to maintain the cornerstones of the bill and to integrate them with a series of amendments, daughters of the debate in the country and in Parliament. A proposal, with due frankness, can also reduce the number and quality of the amendments tabled. So we arrived at the Commission yesterday and at the proposal of the Senators Puglisi and Conte, whom I would like to thank for their commitment and their implementation. A proposal that I believe has taken into account the promise evoked. That is, to arrive at the drafting of a text able to offer a synthesis on the most controversial topics. An effective and passionate work that colleagues Puglisi and Conte have respected to the letter. On the question of the award reserved for teachers, the members of the evaluation committee have been redefined: the number of teachers goes from the two provided by the Chamber to the current three, of which two chosen by the college of teachers and one by the council of institute, with the addition of an external component identified by the regional school office between teachers, school managers and technical managers. To these must be added a representative of the students and a representative of the parents, for the second cycle of education, chosen by the school council. With respect to the evaluation of merit, a new system is proposed in which, at the end of the three-year period 2016-2018, the Regional School Offices send to the Ministry of Education, University and Research a report on the criteria adopted by the school institutions for the recognition of the merit of teachers. On the basis of the reports received, a dedicated technical and scientific committee appointed by the Minister of Education prepares guidelines for the evaluation of the merits of teachers at national level. These guidelines are reviewed periodically, based on the evidence emerging from the reports of the Regional School Offices. I would like to stress this great novelty. We have been talking for years about merit, about the identification of a criterion that was added to that of seniority. I am convinced that the proposal put forward by the rapporteurs is an excellent balance. Last, but not least, the card of 500 euros of which for a long time has been debated. Another theme is that of school leaders. New criteria are introduced for the evaluation of school managers through indicators for their evaluation that take into account the contribution to the improvement of the school service provided for in the self-assessment report and the following general criteria: managerial and organisational skills; appreciation of the commitment and professional merit; appreciation of its work; contribution to the improvement of the educational and school success of students; direction of the school unit. In addition to these, the new criteria for the conferral of inspection functions assigned under the public procedure should be added by comparative evaluation of curricula and prior public notice. In addition, in the proposal to appoint teachers, the school manager will have to take into account, as well as the auto-candidates, also the priority in the assignment of the seat under the law of 5 February 1992, n. 104. The three-year term of office for the teachers themselves shall be renewed provided that it is consistent with the training offer plan. It has also been clarified that the school manager can use teachers in classes other than those for which they are qualified, provided that they possess qualifications valid for the teaching of the discipline and training paths and professional skills consistent with the teachings to be given and provided that teachers qualified in those classes are not available in the territorial context. In this regard, I would like to stress once again a fact: teachers are employed by the State and there is no power of arbitrary granted to the so-called garrisons. Another key point is recruitment. For the school year 2015-2016, the extraordinary plan of permanent recruitment of teaching staff for state schools of all levels provides for the coverage of all common posts and support of the legal staff, remaining vacant and available to the results of the placements carried out for the same school year, at the end of which the rankings of the competitions for titles and examinations announced before 2012 are deleted. For the school year 2015-2016 the Ministry of Education, University and Research is also authorised to cover the additional upgrade posts provided for by law. The winners are engaged indefinitely... president. Senator Marcucci, I'm sorry to call you back, but you had to explain the work of the Commission. I welcome your illustration, but I would ask you to summarize it and conclude your speech. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I am sorry, Mr President, but given the importance of the measure, [[Comments of Senator Malan),]] and since the Commission's work ended with the tabling of an amendment by the rapporteurs, it seemed to me to be relevant to the House. [[Comments of Senator Montevecchi]] I would also like to stress that the work carried out in the Commission, not only by the rapporteurs, but also by all my colleagues who have made an important contribution, is a timely reflection of the content of this work. However, in order to be brief and to allow Members to express their views on what has been done and the work produced, I should like to express my non-formal thanks to all the members of the 7th Commission, by majority and opposition, to the rapporteurs and to all the senators and senators. I believe that each of them should be proud of the work done and the contributions made, which have enriched the text that this House will eventually have to vote on. Our debate has been rich and serious, there will be polemics (which will inevitably end), but if the school system in the coming years will change for the better, if students (who are the real protagonists of the bill under consideration and of which alas there has been too little talk) will have more opportunities for growth at their disposal in a more modern system and at the pace of time, it will not only be thanks to the Government, to the Minister Giannini, to the majority, but to each of us who have contributed to this debate. It is often said that the legislative power today lives in a relationship of total dependence on the executive power. This story, also very troubled and complex, shows the opposite: the text dismissed by the Government has been largely modified, before the debate in the Chamber and today in the Senate with the text presented by the rapporteurs; let me say that it has improved precisely thanks to parliamentary reading. I would therefore like to express my wish: I hope that the Government, if it were to table a large amendment, will rely on the many changes that we have made here, the result, however, of a confrontation that I have already described as particularly rich and thorough. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from FI-PdL XVII and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u12	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we have little to applaud. I do not understand: either we have a regulation that works for this House or we treat it like some kind of American gum, chewing gum, pulling and pulling, which is more and more stretched, but sometimes shrinks. It is not possible to continue to do so. President Marcucci did something he should not have done: because there are no rapporteurs in this House, he should have only updated it on the outcome of the Commission's work, not on the substance of the matter. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S and LN-Aut and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni.]] Montevecchi (M5S). (To Senator Marcucci's address.) Shame on you, you're a disgrace! GIARRUSSO (M5S). Shame! ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). You, Mr President, cannot speak after ten minutes when we hear a report that has no reason to be. The government is making an inextricable mess on this matter: at least we maintain the Rules of Procedure in this House; it is not possible to move forward! [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S groups and Senator Simeoni. Comments from the PD Group.]] President Marcucci, I am surprised at you, who should have said today: We have not been able to examine the measure in the Commission, where we are obliged to return to the Commission, but not with the maxi amendment - which you have falsely tabled in the Commission - but even with the first measure, which should be overcome, although we all know that, at some time in the afternoon, someone will tell us that there is a maxi amendment - or rather an amendment - on which the Government will put the question of trust. This is not the case: ask for respect for the opposition and for the measures that the Government - and, legitimately, the majority - tries to bring to a conclusion, but this lack of respect for the Rules of Procedure is very serious. President, I call you to order: you must keep your faith... [[Protests from the PD Group. Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u13	Senator Romani, as you could appreciate, I intervened for this very reason.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u14	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). You must ensure that the Rules of Procedure are safeguarded! We can no longer do so: on this matter you should have interrupted President Marcucci at the first minute, not at the twelfth. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Anyway, we appreciate it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u17	Montevecchi (M5S). What is he talking about? Why are you taking the floor? ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I asked for the floor first of all to beg Senator Romani not to be angry, because it is much less effective when he gets angry. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] and also to beg him to respect the role of the President of the Senate. [[Protests from FI-PdL XVII and M5S groups. Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u18	It's a stadium now.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u19	ZANDA (PD). This is the first time that I have heard a Parent in the Chamber using the expression 'call to order', addressing the President of the Senate. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] in such an unjustified way. As for the merit of the surgery... [[Comments of Senators Scilipoti Isgrò and Giarrusso.]] Sorry, be patient, let's agree... [[Protests from FI-PdL XVII and M5S groups.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Talk to the president! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Now I'm calling to order, Senator Santangelo. Montevecchi (M5S). Bravo, Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. When you ask for the floor, you will speak. Please don't interrupt who's talking. Please, Senator Zanda. ZANDA (PD). I have not even started talking and I would like to be able to speak in a quiet Chamber at least. I mean, they can of course do whatever they believe, but please listen in silence, as we listen silently when they speak. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] There is no other way to be in the Senate Chamber, Mr President: I know no other way than to listen to each other; there are no other ways. [[Comments from the M5S Group and Senator Malan.]] I asked for the floor, Mr President, just to tell you that President Marcucci has presented the measure in the way that, as we know, all the Presidents of the Commission do whenever the measures arrive in this Chamber without the rapporteur: he has done nothing new than what he should have done. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Liar, that's not true! ZANDA (PD). So I consider reasoning absolutely pretentious. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Then the President was wrong to call him back! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, I am surprised at you, who is a Senator Commissioner and should keep the order in this House, not speak like this. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Please, there's no reason to exasperate. ZANDA (PD). Senator Malan, you know that you always have respect: why should you not respect your colleagues? ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Talk to the president! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] ZANDA (PD). You too, Scilipoti, are always respected! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u20	Senator Scilipoti, you have no right to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u21	ZANDA (PD). Sclipoti, you can scream all you want because you don't make any impressions. Mr President, I will finish because you will understand that it is very difficult to speak in this situation in a Chamber which does not allow even a very simple speech to be held with President Romani, to whom I would say that he has made an opposition intervention, totally devoid of substance both from the regulatory point of view and of any fair play with regard to relations within the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments of Senators Giarrusso and Martelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u22	We must proceed with the work on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u24	Why are you intervening? Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the same subject as Senator Romani and Senator Zanda. I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u25	[[Applause from Senator Simeoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u26	And who else would you like to address?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u27	[[Applause from Senator Finocchiaro]] Montevecchi (M5S). Unlike you, unlike others who, like Senator Zanda, have mistakenly turned to colleagues, I turn to you instead. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Yesterday I made a request to her; because for once in this legislature we talk about school, a topic that interests everyone, because we talk about the place where the adults of the future are created and grow, those who, when we are even older than now, will decide the fate of this country (so, no one is out of the cause of the school, we are all called to care and deal with what is happening with this measure): I had asked her to be a super partis referee. She, as usual, with her seraphic smile, dismissed me and continued to travel like a Red arrow on the tracks, not of impartial arbitration, but of the referee who with an assist pulls the ball into the door for the majority. This is not the behaviour that should have one of the highest burdens of the State, as is the President of the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] I therefore renew the appeal to you here and I would like to make it clear that Senator Marcucci is obviously not satisfied with the deserving armwork he has done in the Commission as a soldier, and that he has led us to the point where we are today. I am referring to the impossibility for the oppositions to work in the Commission because there the government did not have the numbers. That's the only reason Senator Marcucci deserves a round of applause. [[Applause from Senators Bottici and Rizzotti]] Senator Marcucci doesn't pay for making fun of the opposition. He also comes to the House and takes advantage of a space that he is allowed to make false political propaganda. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Simeoni, Mussini and Bignami]] In the maxi amendment they will be tabling, a comma of the substance of this obscene reform (and against which teachers are continuing to protest) has not been changed. Therefore, I would ask you at least to spare us these ridicules that add up to a long series of mockery that certainly do not do honour to this Parliament, but first of all, to the Government, its Premier, its Ministers who have been reduced to people who go on television to lie. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII groups and the Senators Simeoni and Bignami]] Let's at least keep this place clean and chaste from all lies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u28	I continue, beyond the football metaphor that does not suit you, to defend the possibility that you too can intervene in this Parliament and in this Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I continue to defend the possibility of arguing at any cost.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u31	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we are very surprised at what is happening at the beginning of the debate. We know very well, because of the peculiarity of the draft law under consideration, that it will be a very complicated debate, but we are amazed because the words we heard from President Marcucci would have liked to hear them in the Commission. In fact, Mr Marcucci, of whom we do not understand why he has decided to give himself the rapporteur's mandate and to make the report as if everything had gone regularly to the Commission, has failed to tell what really happened in the 7th Commission this month. Mr President, you, who yesterday allowed this House to vote on the bill directly in this House, may not have been sufficiently informed of what happened in the Commission. We were in a position to vote on the amendments from 3 June and, since 3 June, the majority has put in place a real obstructionist practice and prevented us from voting. This has happened in the Commission. We voted on only ten amendments on 15 June, then suddenly, all the times have expanded without real explanations. But we read the explanations in the newspapers: we didn't work because there were 3,000 opposition amendments. But today President Marcucci provided different data: it was not 3,000 but we told the country that there were 3,000 amendments and the obstruction of opposition; not least we read it today in the newspapers that reported an interview by President Marcucci. The reality, however, was that in the Commission the opposition was not given a chance to do serious work because this majority has put in place the worst anti-democratic practices, not allowing comparison on the substance. On the other hand, we were willing to confront each other, and in a month we would have voted amply 2,000 amendments. What we would have liked to hear today was this story, but we have heard the report on what is contained in the bill. By the way, again after yesterday's deadline for tabling the House's amendments at 7 p.m. this evening, I would like to remind you that the Commission had a deadline for submitting sub-amendments to the maxi amendment tabled by the rapporteurs for today at 2 p.m. It is, to say the least, an anomaly in front of us. The sub-amendments presented to the Commission in any case could have allowed work to continue on the subject, being in all only 600, as the numbers provided by President Marcucci today. But this parliamentary work has also been prevented. Mr President, then there are not only those who have given themselves the role of rapporteur, perhaps we also need to tell the truth about what has happened: the majority have forbidden a serious and loyal confrontation in the substance of this bill. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u34	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business for a personal matter. Given that President Zanda said that my speech was totally unjustified from the regulatory point of view, calmly, without being angry, I would like to remember what happened on 19 December 2014. On that day, President Finocchiaro, known for his institutional correctness and how he manages the 1st Commission, did not make a report in the Chamber on the electoral law, which seems to me to be as important a matter as President Marcucci's today regarding the school, but he did, on the indication of the President (who I imagine was you and who on that occasion said: Mr Finocchiaro has the right to intervene to report on the Commission's work, but not on the substance of the measure. So, dear President Zanda, I may have done the first speech as a slightly altered person, but I have done it very well to understand how wrong Mr Marcucci's speech was, that he should have confined himself to describing the Commission's work and should not have done the demagogic task he did on a measure which we will not then vote on. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u37	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would just like to ask a technical question. As you have asked me, I have cut my speech but I ask the Presidency to put it in full in the minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It cannot be put on the record: it is contested. SANTANGELO (M5S). He didn't understand anything. [[Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u38	I already answered. Do you also comment on my decisions? I said it couldn't be on the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u39	[[Applause from Senator D'Alì.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u42	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to address you as usual. I say very honestly that I would have listened to President Marcucci for another hour. First of all, because, given the correctness he had in the Commission with regard to us, at least from the point of view of the League, that could be the only time for President Marcucci - unless he has signed up to speak in general debate - to be able to say what happened in the Commission. But I would also have listened to him for another reason: because President Marcucci's speech, which, please, President, if it is not put to the record, I am willing to read in full - dear colleague, I am not joking - is a clear example of how the Democratic Party and this majority are now like a boxer played with regard to the issue of school. When I think about the subject of school and this provision, I think of two sides, that of Renzi and Minister Giannini the day they presented it. Minister Giannini was pissed off like a buffalo, while Renzi seemed the happiest person in the world. Now, at a time when the Minister, who is a competent minister, had that face, it means something was wrong; when the Democratic Party began to travel around the schools of Italy, to try almost to impose this provision on its teachers, and the more the teachers went about the schools, the more they got, it means that something was wrong; when this measure arrived in the Chamber, and with it came an avalanche of amendments (not obstructive but due to the fact that there were dozens and dozens of teachers filling the e-mail box) means that something was wrong. At a time when the Senate - I don't know if deliberately - blocked the servers for a day when the word "school" came out, it means that something was wrong; when in the Commission you acted in this way, in the worst way, as I said again this morning (on the one hand someone was trying to build, on the other hand someone else was trying to destroy) it means something was wrong. At a time when the Democratic Party and the majority are tabling more amendments than the whole opposition means that something is wrong. When confidence is reached, because you know very well that if confidence were not placed on many of the amendments you would have gone under, it means that something is wrong. At a time when President Renzi obliges us to keep the recruitment measure blocked, lying to the Italians saying that recruitment will only be done if this reform is approved, it means that something is wrong. And the concern that the President-in-Office of the Council has shows that we are on the right side; it shows that those who are outside and complaining and are writing to us, all those teachers who, as I said before, display signs in writing, never more Democratic Party, means that we are on the right side and that something is no longer right for you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u43	Precisely in relation to what Senator Marcucci has reported, I warn that, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, the bill No. 1934 will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies, pursuant to Rule 44, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u44	Mr President, we have raised the question of the preliminary ruling QP1 with regard to the draft law in the text from the Chamber of Deputies, but the questions we are asking for in this regard, from the point of view of constitutionality, may well refer to the maxi nal amendment tabled in the Commission and I do not know how it will then be retabled in this House. I say this very clearly: in this House we are accustomed to the fact that oppositions present questions of prejudice, especially as regards constitutionality, on the most important draft laws. There is therefore a risk that this may seem like a ritual passage, which must be consumed. However, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that we wanted to present the question before us, because, as in the case of this draft law - once again, it is a delegated bill - there are many elements and many articles which, in our opinion, are in stark contrast to certain principles and articles of the Constitution. Precisely the presence of these very delicate profiles of constitutionality should have seriously led the majority and the Government to consider our proposal, which, among other things, with your maxi amendment you have shown to be technically possible, namely the proposal to divide the issue concerning the recruitment plan - and therefore the very delicate issue of the precarious - by the overall reform of the school, which had the need, precisely for these very delicate profiles of constitutionality, on the substance, to be discussed at a later time, calmly, through a great consultation in the country. Somehow, however, you have already been told clearly what are the points that cannot be tolerated, if you really want to do the good of the school, for the future of our country. The initiatives, demonstrations and assemblies that have been made in all these weeks and months show that the whole world of the school, even most of those principals that you seem to want to exalt with the bill under consideration, is absolutely contrary to the measure under consideration. The first question, which has a very serious remark and which represents the fundamental assumption on which public school is founded, concerns the fact that the draft law in question first calls into question the freedom of teaching and therefore stands in clear and clear contrast with Article 33 of our Constitution. We have discussed this many times, it is clear to everyone and it is absolutely clear that, as it has been drafted, the draft law under consideration, for example on the question of the power attributed to the principals, runs counter to the fundamental principle on which Article 33 of our Constitution is based, which is the freedom of research and teaching and which is one of the issues discussed for a long time and profoundly in the constituent Assembly. Not only that, but it is clear to everyone that questioning and thus putting oneself at odds with Article 33 of the Constitution means, among other things, that this power of call of the principal, which you understand well, Mr President (perhaps indirectly has a little to do with the world of school), not only can open the way to perhaps even a little transparent operations of clientelism, but it risks clearly making it possible to build even trendy schools, that is, schools in which there is, depending on the culture and ideology of the principal himself, an approach even of ideological tendency, different from school to school. It is not a peregrine subject, but it is one of the fundamental issues that we have posed and which has been posed by the school and the teachers. Therefore, Mr President, we ask the House not to underestimate this vote on the question of the preliminary ruling, because this point in particular, relating to Article 33 of the Constitution and therefore to the freedom of teaching, is one of the fundamental issues from which many others can be deduced. I could continue with the examples, but the other issue that we do not think is to be underestimated, always related to the power of the principal, is in our opinion also the clear contrast to the fourth paragraph of Article 97 of the Constitution, because it is clear to all that the discretion in the direct call of teachers by the school leader actually cancels the validity of the rankings in force. Once again, then, we are faced with eight delegations which are contained within the draft law, which deal with extremely sensitive matters and I might mention a few of them. Let us consider, for example, the issue of issues such as the integration of disability and therefore the whole issue of support, student evaluation, contractual protection of workers' rights. In this case, therefore, we are faced with a double sensitive constitutional profile, partly with regard to delegations and therefore consistency with Article 76 of the Constitution and secondly with the other element, which is absolutely not negligible, which concerns Articles 34 and 39 of the Constitution itself with regard to the issues of collective bargaining. Turning to Article 76, we are certainly used to it, but with everything that has happened we have been faced, as Senator Petraglia explained very well, with a obstruction of the majority which effectively prevented the work in the Commission for a single reason, that is that we did not want to proceed to a vote, not even on the well-known agenda on the issue of removal, because we had difficulties with the numbers in the Commission. It is a matter that the majority did not have the courage to face up to and to which they did not want to confront themselves and assume responsibilities, making sure that there were only dilatory operations, with an incredible pantomime, inventing who knows what obstructionism of the opposition, to make sure that the game scheme was always the same and that at the last minute it was said that there was a rush and need to bring the bill to the Chamber. It was done in such a way as to set in motion a mechanism of biecious propaganda on the skin of teachers and precarious people, saying that we were preventing the possibility of recruitment and then wanted to put in place the history of recruitment by saying that if the bill had not been approved, these would have jumped because of the opposition's amendments, when in the maxi amendment itself the reform was actually postponed to 2016 and 2017, demonstrating that the operation of recruitment could very well have been carried out. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Bell and Morra.]] And in all this we ask for trust. Once again, the mechanism of trust is set in motion on a bill containing eight delegations, which is in contrast even stronger with Article 76. We got used to it, because the gameplay is always the same. Mr President, we can no longer allow this to happen. The Commission is not allowed to discuss the matter. The Commission was prevented from voting because you were afraid of going into the minority. You have therefore invented the mechanism of obstruction to arrive at a farce. Mr President, I come back to the fact that the profiles on the points I am talking about are totally unconstitutional. I shall conclude by saying, again with regard to Article 33 of the Constitution, that you, with this bill, with the mechanism of tax bonuses question another key principle of the Constitution. Private institutions can legitimately and freely organize education and school, but without charges for the state. You, on the other hand, introduce rules that will promote inequalities, which will make pay with the money of all workers, and perhaps pensioners, middle and higher-class schools. This is what you are doing in total contempt for public school, in total contempt for all the key articles of our Constitution. For this reason, I also ask all those who oppose this bill not to take the question of the preliminary ruling under control, but to vote in favour of our preliminary constitutionality in order to restore the truth: this bill must be drowned down, because it is contrary to our Constitution. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senators Bignami, Campanella, Mussini and Simeoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u45	He asked Senator Marin to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u46	Mr President, allow me to make a point of order about what happened in the Commission (I would like to point out that it has to do with unconstitutionality). Some of my colleagues in the Committee on Education mentioned earlier that when we talk about these issues there is no political colour. (17.28) (Follows MARIN). But it's okay to remember what happened, and the colleagues did well. I understand the difficulty of the President of the Commission, Senator Marcucci, whose correctness reminded Senator Centinario of earlier. But what has happened over the past few days on the school bill, Mr President, is unlikely. Therefore, if the President of the Forza Italia Group, Senator Paolo Romani, has warmed up, as he rarely does in this Assembly, it is because the level of tolerance of this Assembly, which should also involve the colleagues of the Democratic Party, and also the colleagues of the majority, has objectively gone far beyond the level of guard. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] To give an example, we have met several times in the Commission, even with the willingness of the minority, who is a minority in that Commission and is never a hard opposition, because there we really go into the substance of the measures, recognizing to those who lead it the readiness to dialogue and to listen to everything. But these days we've passed any acceptable level for a Senate Commission. Let me remind you here that the President of the Council, the "professor" Renzi informed us the other night that, after his political career, he will become a teacher, forgetting that to the school and the university (even if he did not tell us if he was a professor of school or university) you enter by competition, once you have completed some training courses. But it is not chronic welfareism or chronic statism, what is present in this measure, Mr President and colleagues of the PD. Well, the "professor" Renzi reminded us that the bill would suspend him, as Senator Petraglia correctly recalled. He first let us know from television, jumping all the institutional fora, that they would suspend the provision because - you hear! - you had to hear the world of school. He would have called the world of school for three days, because he felt the duty to hear everyone. It's a Kafkian situation. The bill had already been voted in the House, Mr President. Objectively it is not acceptable: it is a demonstration of confusion that concerns not only the draft law on the school but the country, because the President of the Council cannot be in these conditions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I say this because he is the President of the Council of all, of all Italians. It gets ridiculous. He told us he's gonna be a professor. It certainly has the title of study, but it does not take the formative paths and will not compete; in fact, also for this reason I will recall Article 97 of the Constitution and the profiles of unconstitutionality that our Group has found. He also suspended what he did to the House, saying that he wanted to discuss it with the country, because I believe that maybe that evening, in a moment of lucidity, he will have realized that not only in this Chamber there is no one (I don't believe in the majority) who appreciates this bill, but not even in the country: the whole world of school is opposed. I wonder if there is any question: if the whole world of school is against it, there will be reasons. In order to get to the point, I would add that before we go to the House, we have a duty to make it pass to the Commission, but we have continually postponed this work because of a way of proceeding schizophrenic government, from compulsory health treatment: today we do, tomorrow we do not do, there is trust, there is no trust. Finally, we voted on a number of amendments from the Budget Commission; we voted on nine amendments from the Commission; they were four amendments, four votes, Mr President. Objectively, the opposition had presented more than 2,000, but we did so because we do not believe in the provision; instead, it would be the fault of the opposition if teachers were not hired. The fact is that we want a school of merit, of quality, we do not want a welfare and state school. For example, it excludes those who have done a qualifying training internship, while hiring people who passed the competition in 1999 and perhaps, by doing few supplements each year, had to go and do another job. Mr President, you're going to teach someone who might be doing another job! Not a school of quality and merit. Having said that, as it was right to do in order to participate and also to explain why there is such a strong dissatisfaction in our Group that it has led President Romani to express himself in certain tones, we will have many things to say in the general discussion and in the explanations of vote regarding everything that has happened. Let me give you an example in relation to the Constitution. The right to study must be guaranteed and the choice of families must be guaranteed equal for public and equal schools. As far as the latter is concerned, I would like to give you an example which, in our opinion, presents some profiles to be evaluated. Is it possible that students attending equal schools will not be included in the large MIUR database? Only those attending public schools are included, but a family has certain rights. We believe in the work that peer schools do, we want to defend them, we are on their side because it is right that parents, believing in certain values, decide where to send their children to school. Or do we always want the usual welfare and state school I was talking about earlier, that of the Democratic Party, already PCI, PDS, DS, that is, a left school? We therefore believe that even the students of the equal schools deserve to be included. Moreover, it is not possible that parents who spend important resources, especially at a time of crisis such as the current one, to send their children to equal schools draw 19 percent, i.e. having a tax credit up to a maximum of 400 euros, because this figure becomes really ridiculous: consider that it does not even reach that ridiculous 80 euro bonus that allowed the Renzi Government to win the European elections. Equal schools must therefore be defended, because inequality is created. I would also add that it is not clear how recruitment will be made in equal schools: it will be appropriate for a private peer school to be able to choose teachers who bring relevant values to it. Mr President, you see, there are a lot of things to do, but in order to get more on the subject, I remember, among other things, that this reform had the first vote in the House with a very small majority of 316 votes, despite the fact that a much larger one was formed by that majority prize judged unconstitutional by the Court, which brings up to 330 Members, which is supported by other Members, elected on different lists, perhaps even under the name of Berlusconi President. Having said that, Mr President, in order to draw attention to the unconstitutional nature of the measure, we have referred to every paragraph of Article 97 of the Charter, which raises doubts of constitutionality with regard to this reform. If we want to proceed on issues, with reference to those we have just mentioned, as regards managers, we create a pyramidal school, where they are given such importance that we believe there is a real risk of putting in their hands not only the future of our children, but also that of professors, with their teaching choices. In this respect, we believe that there is no guarantee in this organizational model. Nor will there be any guarantee of the acts of impartiality of these leaders, without prejudice of course to the good faith of all, but, also on this, of course, there is an open debate. The downward compromise that comes out on this reform is a currency of exchange, which took place within that constant congress of the PD that became the Renzi Government, which pours into that confusional state I was talking about before. With Christian charity, I also want to understand him, because he will become a professor and is thinking about his future life: he is the President of the Council and the Secretary of the Democratic Party: objectively, I understand that he is in a state of confusion. But not only that. The organization of offices under certain spheres of competence and the allocation of responsibilities of officials make us think, from this point of view too, of the regional offices and of the discretion of the school manager. Finally, as for the eight white delegations that are left to the government on such an important subject, if it were true what is told us by the Democratic Party - because the Government is the Democratic Party - that is that they have started in the listening phase for more than a year, in this state of confusion that involves the Government and therefore the Democratic Party, I repeat, comes from smiling thinking about the discretion, the leaders and the schools that I was talking about before. For all these reasons, we believe that we cannot proceed with the debate and of course put to the vote the constitutional profiles contained in the question before us. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u49	MORRA (M5S). Colleagues, it was March 5, 2014 when our current President of the Council visited the primary school "Raiti" in Syracuse. He began what he promised would be a habit, and then stopped immediately, because of the polemics that arose for the famous choir that was presented to him and that he accepted very willingly, but that remembered many eras not very happy of our twentieth century history. Now, the confrontation with the world of school, a very desirable theme, cannot be without respect for our constitutional values that, even in the view of the 5 Star Movement, are violated by this supposed reform of the so-called good school, which everything does, except to improve the climate of positivity within which only and only one can cooperate to work in order to make the future citizens - but, first, the future people - able to face the challenges of reality in a clear, clean and honest way. In our opinion, it is articles 33, 34, 76 and 3 of the Constitution that are outraged and vile by this wretched reform, imposed on Parliament with an iter that define mindful of the descriptions of Ulysses made by Homer is to use a euphemism. This reform, too often announced, was eventually presented even today in the newspapers as something that will guarantee 100,000 hirings. Well, it will be 100,000 employees of servants who will, in some way, have to pay homage to school leaders with abominable powers, which our Constitution does not allow because our fundamental Charter wants to organize society according to straight and clear principles of transparency, democracy and substantial equality of citizens. Teachers must have guaranteed freedom of education, as provided for in Article 33 of the Constitution. The tax bonus affects the collection of general taxation and, therefore, affects a principle whereby without burdens for the state - we all know - everyone can offer education in a competitive manner with the state but without this leading to an increase in expenditure for the taxpayer and for the citizen. I still want to say that this reform, colleagues who used to call you to substantial justice, being the daughter of a logic that induces economies of scale, will polarize towards schools capable of absorbing funding and teachers considered to be better living and fresher resources in order perhaps to offer a teaching - I also believe - of greater quality. However, there are those who will not be able to send their children to a city school - I address the many parliamentarians who come from mountain areas - or from the city centre. In the cities, in fact, there are the refined, snob, protected centers, but also the degraded suburbs, forgotten and subject of electoral raid only in proximity to the vote by the politicians. For us, the school must be first and foremost a dimension in which the state warns of its presence and this reform of good school removes equal schools in these municipalities and in these centres. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Article 3 of the Constitution, with its second paragraph, reminds us that it is the task of the State to remove the obstacles that in fact prevent everyone not to arrive, but to be able to participate in the so-called social elevator and, that is, to mobility dynamics because, according to the merit, everyone is allowed to try. This reform denies those students, as well as those teachers, this possibility and you know this because this is a reform born in the circles of Confindustria, in the TreeLLLe Association and it is of all those who want to create a privatization of the public school, as if it had not been given the possibility to private individuals to enter also in this field. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, I take back the Latinist Matteo Renzi who, in January, uttered a motto referring to Orazio: "Carpe diem, quam minimum credula postero ". I want to believe as little as possible tomorrow if tomorrow is what you are proposing and I hope that in this House too, since we must be faithfully anchored in our constitutional principles, we have the courage to reject to the sender a reform that has so much to be forgiven, so much so that the only possibility is the cancellation of the same. Quousque tandem abutere, Matthew, our patience? For these reasons, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, I request that the Senate Act of 1934 not be examined. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u50	Today Latin quotations go for the major.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u51	He asked Senator Candiani to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP4. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u52	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Here will be the holding of the majority and, as always, we will find the usual transparent and invisible hands that support the Government also in these circumstances because they do not have the courage to face their own problems and the circumstances undoubtedly of governmental inability that they are pushing towards this measure. Yes, Mr President, we are presenting a preliminary question because we believe that the so-called good school bill - like the President of the Council of Ministers, for the use and consumption of propaganda is now accustomed to doing things by calling things not by their name but by periphrase and even more parables - despite the changes made with the maxi amendment of the former rapporteurs, and perhaps of the Government, is not acceptable. This is paradoxical, however, because we all know how the debate will end, since everything we are doing will be guillotined directly by the submission of a large amendment. But that is what Parliament's practice is all about, and then we also deal with the question of the preliminary question, QP4. As I said, the bill remains unconstitutional in many of its most important aspects, especially with regard to Article 10, since it excludes most precarious teachers from recruitment indefinitely, reserving them only to the winners of the 2012 competition and to the writings to the run-out rankings themselves. As is well known, according to constitutional principles, it is the legislator's duty to ensure good administration, the impartiality of public authorities, as Article 97 of the Constitution appropriately states, and therefore to ensure, on the one hand, that public officials are chosen on the basis of their competence and merit in order to ensure the effectiveness and quality of their action; on the other hand, that the rights of those who have been penalised in access to the competitive procedure for mere governmental choices of public finance are recognised. It follows that situations of potential expansion of the conditions of law (such as those of candidates placed in the merit rankings in question) are protected by our law as legitimate expectations, or legitimate interests of them. It cannot, therefore, be ignored that there is still a ranking of merit in place by the single text of the school, which provides for the prevalence of merit rankings over the run-up rankings. There is also a clear violation of Article 3 of the Constitution for the fact that, with reference to Article 10, in the context of the competition referred to in paragraph 17, no means have been identified to fully enhance the service provided and the professionalism acquired over the years by the qualified teachers with the active training, as well as to extend the extraordinary plan of recruitment referred to in the same article also to the qualified teachers enrolled in full in the graduations of circle and institute; an aspect highlighted by the signatories of this act and confirmed with their own observation by the Commission work in the opinion. Evident profiles of unconstitutionality, in fact, President, are repented according to the writers in the extraordinary recruitment plan. It is assumed that the State issues laws pursuing specific objectives in the good and in the common interest; in fact, on 31 August 2013, Decree-Law No 101 of 2013, entitled " Urgent provisions for the pursuit of rationalization objectives in public administrations" was published. Well, President, the decree-law just mentioned then intervened on the general norms in the matter of public employment dictating ad hoc dispositions, stating among other things that (Article 4, paragraph 3) the authorization to start new competitive procedures, pursuant to article 35, paragraph 4, of the legislative decree 30 March 2001, n. 165, and subsequent modifications, is subordinate - I quote - to the absence, in the same administration, of suitable places in its existing rankings and approved from 1 January 2007. Public administrations can therefore only recruit staff from the new competition rankings. It should be recalled, Mr President, that, in accordance with the single text on school and Article 35 of Legislative Decree No 165 of 2001, the rankings for recruitment of staff to public administrations remain in force for a period of three years from the date of publication. The decree-law, which has been regularly converted, is perfectly in line with what the Council of State had already expressed, with pronunciation at Plenary Meeting No 14 of 28 July 2011, and this regard not only to the need to launch a new competition, but also to the obligation to give account of the reason why the administration intends to make a classification lapse, there present the eligible subjects, and to proceed to a new competition. This motivational duty - and I continue with the quote - is particularly important in cases where the administration has before it a plurality of options, which can lead to diversified economic and administrative costs and when it must in any case consider the legal positions of certain subjects, holders of expectations protected by the law... and the administration, once established to proceed to the supply of the place, must always motivate in order to the chosen modalities for the recruitment, taking into account, in any case, the existence of possible rankings of the suitable still valid and effective at the time of the indication of the new competition. In justifying the preferred option, the administration must keep in the highest regard the fact that the current law affirms a general favor for the use of graduations of the fit, which falls only in the presence of special disciplines of the sector or of particular circumstances of fact or of prevailing public interest reasons, which must, however, be punctually included in the order for the new competition to be announced. Well, Mr President, in our opinion, therefore, it seems inexplicable and irrational the decision of the Government to exclude from the recruitment plan all subjects enrolled in the merit graduations approved in the years 2013 and 2014, because in contrast to the objective of rationalization referred to in the above-mentioned measures. The legislator can of course reform a future recruitment to his liking, but not manage the present completely ignoring the existing legislation, including the single text, attributing more than 90% of the entries to a subordinate ranking and eliminating tout court the legitimate legal expectations of the members in the ranking. The amendments approved by the contact person with regard to the so-called school insecure do not eliminate such illegitimacy, which would eventually open up a series of disputes with an uncertain outcome for the state's coffers. Considering, in conclusion, the non-exhaustive provision of the observations made to Italy by the European Court of Justice in a judgment of 26 November 2014, we believe that the Senate should decide not to proceed to the examination of the bill n. 1934 and annexes. We, Mr President, are very sceptical that the Government has assessed the appeals that would still be made and the prejudices that would result from possible judicial approval. We would be faced not with an accommodation of the precarious in the school, but, on the contrary, with the emergence of disputes that will make the future of education even more uncertain. And that's all we wouldn't need. But the government obviously - as has been said - still wants to abuse our patience. But how long will he continue to abuse the patience of the entire country? Quousque tandem, Catilina? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Bignami, Campanella and Casaletto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u53	I call Senator Bonfrisco to explain a question for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u54	Mr President, the questions raised so far represent only a part of the many constitutionalities that this reform system affects and which will inevitably produce not only negative reactions to the substance of the content, but - and this is perhaps the most important point that should interest us - a series of disputes that will further feed the state of confusion in which our school is today. I would like to say above all to the Government, who is so concerned about the timing of the recruitment of the more than 100,000 precarious people to the point of making it subject to so many more important principles - such as, for example, the offer of teaching, which in this reform system is so neglected - that by virtue of forcing, even from the point of view of the constitutional profile, we will be faced with such a number of disputes that will prevent it from carrying out in time what it intends to do with the recruitment and stabilization of those precarious people, who are directly placed in the role of the graduations on the completion of the first day of school, when we all hope the Italian school can regularly begin its lessons. Our full reference and further support for those profiles already outlined by my colleagues, but it also places particular emphasis on one aspect: just as we will be able to implement a reform that, from the constitutional point of view, is particularly evident in all the paragraphs of that Article 97, which should instead guarantee all the profiles required for school reform, and will eventually produce a very negative and critical result. Let it be clear from the outset that those who are today asking the question for a preliminary ruling do so in the interests of the school system as a whole and, in particular, those teachers of those rankings who would like to make them concrete and applicable from the first day of school, when they do not. To stop another day in a deepening work, as we asked in the Commission before even this House, perhaps it will solve an extra problem for the Government, solve some issues for the great school system, and perhaps leave the teachers more serene in having to plan their work, together with the school leaders and all those who will have to, playfully, organize a service for the beginning of September. Because of the haste and forcing this government is doing on school reform, this will not be possible. Please remember all of this on the day that the school cannot begin its lessons on a regular basis. There is no blame on the oppositions that have tabled corrective amendments. Maybe that day we hope that the government will be able to and will be able to do some self-criticism. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u55	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u58	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this further parliamentary passage, the Government has once again expressed its contempt for the Senate, and has done so in several ways, still remaining in the wake of a behavior it has been holding since its inception and which has worsened, where possible, the behaviour of the last governments. The Regulations and articles of the Constitution themselves are read elastically - as my colleague Mr Romani mentioned earlier - depending on whether or not they agree with the Government at one time rather than another. Members have just pointed out that the draft law under consideration violates Article 33 of the Constitution, which defends the freedom of teaching, which is fundamental for the cohesion of a national community, in order to prevent the creation of different schools depending on the place where they are located or the person from whom they are run as a company - this is researched - also compressing the freedom and dignity of workers, of many teachers. These, in constant confrontation with the difficulties of teaching our children, have manifested their ability to pursue concretely that second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution, which gives the Republic the duty to give all citizens a real, effective level of equality. It also violates Article 97 of the Constitution because, by making school principals and school leaders the dominuss of the school, it essentially takes away from the school that ability to be not only fully democratic, but also well managed. It also violates Article 76. We know that delegations can be conferred by Parliament on the Government only for defined objects and with well-defined criteria. White delegations are Parliament's surrender to the Commission [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] , a transfer of legislative power to the Government, a Government that has already shown on several occasions an insuffering for the control of Parliament, insuffering for the space that our Constitution assigns to Parliament. They had already done so with the electoral law. They did it again with the school rule. The failure to examine a legislative act in the Commission means giving the Commission responsibility for the content; it means abdicating the role of this House. And, on the part of the majority, forcing this House to ratify what the Government decides is a very serious act of responsibility. It is an act of political responsibility that they will pay dearly and that they have already paid, but not entirely. Wherever I have moved in Italy I have heard a repeat "Never more PD". Will you try to correct this? I do not know how far you can do that, because you betrayed the part of the electorate closest to you - and you know it - and you have reason to fear this. One final consideration, all political, I would like to make. I remind everyone that, in the early 1990s, there was a party that the secretary had taken over and ended up with his secretary: it is the PSI. I hope you don't end up the same way. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u61	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party will vote against these prejudices, and it will do so for very specific reasons, linked precisely to the articles that have been mentioned in this debate. The problem of the organization of the school has been raised through the powers attributed to the manager; the problem has arisen in the discussion of the inadequacy of a top model of the school. I believe that political assessments of this kind can be made, but when it comes to the Constitution and the regulatory requirements, we are far from it. We have an organization which, in compliance with Article 97 of the Constitution (which provides that the powers of public offices are conferred by law) establishes within the school an order of competence and a division of tasks that ensures that this school of autonomy has a reference, a precise responsible, as the principal, in a logic that also takes into account all the components of the school: the college of institute, the college of teachers, the representatives of parents and teachers. All this is in accordance with Article 97 of the Constitution, as well as Article 33 of the Charter itself. It is said that freedom of teaching is violated. In what respect is this freedom violated? And before that, what does freedom of teaching mean? It means the possibility of setting up one's own teaching, lessons, the dissemination of one's own knowledge according to one's own discernment, but it does not mean that one avoids the fundamental principle of responsibility enshrined in Article 28 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It does not mean that freedom does not mean that there is an evaluation of the work, because this happens in all democracies, in all public and private organisations. It doesn't mean that you take away the freedom of the teacher to express himself as I think best. The teacher, who is aware of his/her powers, competence and professionalism, cannot be afraid of an evaluation. Evaluation is what best gives the teacher the meter compared to his/her way of playing the role, compared to his/her way of being in the school. This assessment, as happens at the university - of course with the elements of diversity that must surely be set - cannot be without regard to the context in which the teacher operates. The evaluation does not evaluate the teacher's scientific rate. Of course, we need a thorough preparation; we certainly need a well-established competence; but the teacher does not qualify if he is a Nobel laureate, but if he is a teacher, if in the context he can relate with the students, he knows how to train them and educate them. [[Applause from the PD Group]] ; he knows how to move towards teachers, parents, children and all the operators of the school, because the teacher is not an atom of the school but a worker of the school and, according to Article 3 of the Constitution, in the specificity of its function is equal to all the others. In the function of a modern school, a school that must assert itself in terms of merit and competence, this is a serious, conscious path, absolutely in accordance with the Constitution, the principle of equality, even before freedom of teaching. These are the basic rules of a democracy, of a working relationship in the public service (Article 97 says). I do not think we should be afraid of this and, in this respect, the statement that the teacher becomes a servant I think is offensive to the same teachers. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I think if you have respect for the teacher, you don't call him a servant. If you think that a teacher is succubus of a principal or of the evaluation that is given, it means that you think that the teacher does not have the awareness of his own role and that he does not have the dignity of his own profession [[Applause from the PD Group]] and respect for one's own person. Of course, working life in all contexts is a difficult and complicated life, in which there can also be clashes, but to say that laying down a rule that establishes a principle of evaluation, brings back to this principle of evaluation the work of the teacher and places the teacher in comparison with the evaluation, means violating the freedom of teaching, I think it is really excessive. This raises another problem, namely whether we want to try to reform school or whether we want to maintain the status quo and whether, with everyone's contribution, we want to raise the level of school - of which I am not challenging the value - to make it more appropriate to the European context, to a dynamic concept of democracy and the relationship between the same teacher and parents, that in the specificity of roles does not fail to the importance of Article 3 of the Constitution, and to a context in which everyone must be aware that there are rights and obligations for everyone and that respect to these rights and duties must be met. On the subject of Article 34 of the Constitution, the problem of bonuses has been raised here. Well, I think we should get out of the context of the prejudices, the Guelphs and the Ghibellines, and remind ourselves that the tax bonus is not a contribution to schools, but is part of the right to study, it is a contribution to the student, who by going to a school of this type, is not charged to the public budget and that it is a deduction of the burden on the parent, partial and limited, which does not remove the equal contribution between what a student pays to the public school and what he pays to the private school. This simply means leaving a freedom of choice, which is often the result of the right to work of parents, even before the right to education. When we talk about this issue, we are not just talking about elite schools, but about those that parents often turn to, who, having very complicated working situations, need special care schemes for their children. As far as the subject of Article 3 of the Constitution is concerned, I believe that everyone knows that the Constitutional Court has said that this article is violated when equal situations are treated differently, but not when, in the presence of objective elements of diversification, there is a diversified discipline, which is not contrary to logic and is clearly not irrational. I have not heard in the debate on the constitutionality of the draft law under consideration any consideration that would point to unjustified discrimination or that would put a clear irrationality on these provisions. Of course, when we come down to political choices, which are translated into legal rules, we are in a field in which political evaluation is always questionable, but at the level of the constitutional union I believe that we must have a serious reference in the Constitution, which cannot be used as a propaganda tool, but as a reference to the action and political direction that we should all respect, if we really want to apply it. I shall conclude with a reference to the topic of direct call, which some believe evades the principle of competition. I believe that, if the context to which we refer is the same for all, this is a completely free and unacceptable statement. When the call is made among those who have passed the contest and therefore are in a position to exercise the function of teachers, there is no circumvention of the principle of the contest and the call does not exclude, for any of the teachers, the certainty of the place and of its function. I believe that this is the framework and for these reasons the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote against the constitutional prejudices. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u62	I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling, with several reasons, by Senator De Petris and other senators (QP1), Senator Marin and other senators (QP2), Senator Blundo and other senators (QP3), Senator Centinario and other senators (QP4) and Senator Bonfrisco. It's not approved. I still have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u65	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like it to remain with the acts which did not work in the last vote and which therefore I was unable to vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so. 18.18 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u66	Madam President, before I begin my speech, I would like to make a note of what President Marcucci said, saying that a good job has been done and that the bill has been improved compared to the work done in the House. The only conclusion we can draw from these words is simply that here in the Senate we have better photocopiers than those of the House, since the text is exactly the same as what was provided to us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The school is one of the pillars on which to place one's vision of the future and of a society. The real point is whether the pillar, and therefore the final construction, stands or not. According to me and according to the 5 Star Movement, this project, which is part of a larger design, is not standing. History teaches us that, during the coups d'etat in South America, one of the first strategic points that is being occupied is television and, therefore, the control of information. Similarly, every Italian Government in our Republic, during each legislature and even several times in the same, has put its hand or has tried to put its hand on the subject of the school. A singular effect of this succession of school reforms is that, over the years, the choirs of protest have risen via students, then professors, then technical and administrative staff and parents, but this time you have passed and beat every precedent: against this reform they have raised practically all: students, professors, parents and even has outraged even part of the PD, with its 300 amendments. And then, if part of the PD is also outraged, the fact is really serious. I'd like to ask you a question. Who among you remembers, in general, the names of the ministers of the various governments of the last twenty years? Practically no one. If we were to try to remember the names of the Ministers of Education, then the answer would change because we would remember them well. I am Berlinguer, Moratti, Fioroni, Gelmini, Perfume, Carrozza and, finally, Giannini. Each of these Ministers has changed most of the times the law of its predecessor. And the changes lasted, more or less, a legislature. This determines the fact that, within the school debate, there no longer exists even the confrontation between generations, coming to say that it cannot be said that the school of fathers is the same school of children. Even the problem is that the school of older brothers is not the same as the school of younger brothers, so rapid is the change. The new millennium opened with the Berlinguer era: reform of the state exams, reduction of one year of the school course, possibility for a student not to continue his studies course provided he had a medium license. Then comes the Moratti, which abolishes the elementary license exam and focuses everything on the famous three i: English, computer science and enterprise. At the time it was shouted: the school becomes a structure for privileged, leaving the mass to the private schools. Three years later the Prodi Government arrives and the Minister of Education is Giuseppe Fioroni, who is still returning to the school system. He carries out the change in the education requirement, which is high to ten years. Reform maturity, with external commissions. But in 2008 comes the Gelmini. His view of the school provides for a cut in spending by reducing the number of teachers, changing the method of evaluation and re-introduction of the single teacher into primary school. In turn, Gelmini passes the witness to Profumo, Minister of Education of the Monti Government, to whom the short term of that mandate does not give time to make changes. Finally, Minister Giannini arrives, who takes the place of the Carrozza. Much has already been said about this reform. I would just like to add a few comments. The future of our country passes through the school, starting from kindergartens and reaching the universities. A serious and concrete reform project cannot fail to have a vision that is released from the political logics of the moment and, therefore, must necessarily go beyond the prospect of an electoral campaign. The first discriminating point between public and private schools is the origin of capital and the way in which this school is supported. But the second, immediate, discriminating point is what we teach our children and what logic the school of the future will have to submit to; a school that becomes a small center of power, perhaps for recycled of the political world, for former senators or former provincial councillors who can manage large budgets and interact with private individuals. The real value of having a public school is to be able to guarantee everyone the level of education that the civil ethics of the country decides to give to itself. That's why what you want is not a good school, but rather a good school: good to continue to do your interests, rather than those of Italian citizens and students! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I'll finish by answering Senator Pagliari. She challenges us, Senator, because we used the word servo. I say, however, that if there is a servant, it means that there is a master. Then, I invite you to remove from this bill the word master, and we will remove from our speeches the word servant. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u67	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, the path that has taken place so far has not been easy, the result of a process of listening to trade unions, associations of parents, students, experts, in search of very useful shared solutions, which has reached a synthesis of different points of view. Having chosen to improve the original text of the good school already in the House as a result of everyone's contributions - and I hope that the Government will take into account what has emerged from the work of the Commissions - is the response to the demands of the Lisbon 2020 Agenda: investing in the knowledge society, a cultural challenge that we are all going to face. Good school is not a real reform, but it is more: a series of reform measures aimed at completing the great unfinished reform of autonomy. These are innovative and complex reform measures, through which the aim is to make the school truly autonomous, providing flexible study paths, allowing the curvature of the curriculum and the introduction of new disciplines of study. It wants to improve the levels of learning of students and students; to increase skills through individualized courses of laboratory teaching; to focus on cooperative learning; to generalize the study of new disciplines now indispensable; to combat school dispersal; to optimize support; in short, to promote educational success and to put a stop to the submerged of private lessons, of which - it happens - no one has spoken. The draft law also aims to encourage guidance aimed at satisfying vocations and skills that can be spent in the world of work through generalization also in the high schools of school-work alternance, developing higher technical institutes and university post-graduate courses. It is the design of a school that looks to the future, which sees at the center - and not the margins - the students, a term that frequently recurs and becomes characterizing. Equally impressive is the assumptional plan of the precarious teachers, meeting the needs of the common posts, to support the staff, including the share of flexibility, of the posts of the upgrade. The recruitment of 60,000 other teachers would lead to the solution of a problem that has remote stories over time and that other governments have not been able to solve, but only complicate and chronicize. Putting an end to the precarious, with a serious system of three-year competitive recruitment and a rigorous initial training aimed at verifying the skills (including relational) of the teachers, is another necessary, but not sufficient, aspect for the reforming process. Exaggerating the part relating to the assumptional plan would have resulted in a stunted operation and missing substantial elements. The good school, on the other hand, is an operation interconnected with actions whose objective is the completion of autonomy and the process of improving quality through the elaboration of improvement plans; a task that the schools are completing in these days through the self-assessment relationship (RAV), which must go hand in hand with the evaluation of teachers, so well described by my colleague Pagliari in his legitimacy, and with the introduction of merit (as well defined) and the reward for teachers who more and better strive for the achievement of the objectives of the school and, before that, of the class and, before that, of each of their students. The educational success of the students is the primary objective - as I said, they are at the center and not on the periphery of this process - and it is a goal that can be reached also through the formation - word that recurs - widespread and continuous of the teachers and the staff, first entrusted to a not well defined right-duty. It is an essential element that will lead to the mutation of a system anchovied over time and that needs a rapid and virtuous change, not always easy to accept by everyone in the world of school. We must, in fact, publicise the strong aspects of this reform, because it has only been emphasized (even vulgarly) its negativity. In this context, governance plays a key role: teachers involved in various fields are supporting the school manager, who is primarily responsible for the results he has to report. The good school assigns him tasks and functions that - as my colleague Mr Pagliari said - are already in nuce contained in the norms, but not yet fully accomplished. Therefore, the increased prerogatives, which have been demagogically emphasized by shortsighted logics and demolitions, involve the real possibility of valorization and the correct use of human resources. Therefore, to decline the plan of the training offer and to implement the plan of improvement of the school means to assign to the manager the faculty to valorize the teachers necessary to the school institution on the basis of the competences emerging also from the curricula. The road that has hitherto been compulsory, which has been entirely exclusive to the ranking, was the expression of the rankings determined by seniority, a valid element, but which must also be compared to others. Thus the principle is affirmed that certain human resources are indispensable for a POF linked to the specific reality that that training offer and that Institute, in a given context, require. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. PHASE (PD). Therefore, it is not surprising nor must it be surprising that an executive, for a class with a considerable load of foreign students, prefers a teacher who has experience and competence desumible from the curriculum for teaching Italian as L2 (Lingua due) compared to those who do not have it. Today all this cannot be done: the school manager is a motionless motor, but not in the philosophical sense; it is a blocked engine, despite the full implementation of the managerial function is well explained by decrees even in 1993. One more point I would like to stress, on the activity of the executives. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator. PHASE (PD). The manager must answer for the results, enough has already been said about this; he must be able to select and value the merit: perhaps it is necessary to remember - as Mr Tonini has said in another context - that we must compete with China, India and, before that, with Europe - the minimum size we have to face - with lively, fast, constantly changing and growing societies and school systems. Look at you, read this document, look at the results... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] One more moment, Madam President, to finish: if there are smudges, if there are deficiencies, they will be correct; we will have to think more about ATA, but good school is a work in progress, but it is above all a progress, compared to a stop that the country can no longer hold. [[The microphone automatically switches off]] , in the interest of the new generations.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u69	It is a very ungrateful job to interrupt you, ladies and gentlemen. I would therefore ask you for some self-regulation, because the time is short and unfortunately everyone must respect the limits we have set.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u70	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u71	Madam President, government gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, Pietro Calamandrei argued that turning subjects into citizens is a miracle that only school can perform. Judging from the uprising to unified networks, we could say, in all the Italian squares, aroused by the bill of the supposed good school, according to the prevailing Renza mono-thought, of citizens must have formed this bad school which today wants to reform so authoritarian, arrogant and - let me add - depriving this Assembly of its main prerogative. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]] We are all aware, in fact - lords of the Government, I address above all to you - that it is in the debate and in the debate in the Chamber, after the hopefully fruitful one carried out in the Commission, that the highest witness of the commitment of a legislator who wants to give the country a perspective that consolidates the processes of democracy is given to the approval of the measure.Unfortunately, this is not the case and the miracle that Calamandrei speaks of seems to have been accomplished. Since we do not consider ourselves subjects, but citizens, let us say no, in a high and strong way, to a reform that cannot be shared in substance and method: bad content, which we censor in a convincing way; unacceptable the method of government, which even with unscrupulousness, I would say, raises the question of trust on the bill, mortifying these functions of ours and wounding democracy to death. This is the case when the debate on the amendments is in fact prevented. The approximately thousand amendments would have been "switched" further to indicate the absolute absence of a obstructive intent of the same. What then to say about the paralysis of the Commission's work on merit which has particularly important functions? I would also like to add nothing more out of respect for the President of the Commission, to whom I would like to avoid a further embarrassment which was already perceptible in the words of his speech when he tried to explain and justify the inexcusable. It makes us almost tender, let me say it, today Minister Giannini. We remind you of the words of Minister Giannini a few days ago. He said it was a bill open to the contribution of Members. Clear, clear, punctual, precise words and spoken with authority of role and sacredness of the place where they were spoken. Minister - I am sorry that he is now represented by other representatives of the Government - has a whisper of dignity because this is what it is about. It notes the fact that the government of which it is a member not only mocks democratic institutions, ignores the demands of the world of school and citizens, but also has transformed this reform, even if necessary, into the worst anti-democratic blackmail on everyone's skin, especially on the skin of school's precarious. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]] Ladies and gentlemen, the squares are full of citizens - not subjects - who reason with their own heads. The fairy tale of the precarious that ends just doesn't send it down. This reform begins with the wrong foot of a monocratic act and ends up in the marasma of discrimination between series A and series B precarious. Outside this Chamber there is half of Italy who is protesting against this major amendment, which timidly looks out and then disappears. We do not know whether it will be the one presented by the rapporteurs or whether the government will come, which aims to recover the proposals made by the social and political partners in order to resolve everything and satisfy everyone. It's not like that. This maxi amendment leaves with a handful of flies in hand all those precarious with thirty-six months of service on vacant place, to which nothing else will remain but to make a new contest or, as often happens, to resort to justice bringing the matter into the courtrooms. Outside this Chamber there is half of Italy or, perhaps, even more, that it believes that this measure will only harm our education system, the eight million students enrolled and the million professionals, teachers and ATA who operate there. No one likes the Renzi school's bill of reform and rightly so. The Italian school would make a frightening leap backwards, and even in this House it is not only the minorities who think of it in the same way given the number of amendments tabled and, above all, the large number of amendments, which have dissolved like snow in the sun, coming precisely from their colleagues in the PD, who were evidently convinced in the short turn of a night that those amendments, on which they had worked to improve the text arrived from the House, led to a worsening and not an improvement of the text. Evidently this doesn't interest the government. The Group of Conservatives and Reformists, in order to give voice to the right protest of teachers and students who also rise at a territorial level, presented a package of amendments aimed at bringing the merit, efficiency and quality back to the centre of the school. There are several critical points on which we have worked with a collaborative spirit, without prejudices, without wanting to lower the measure, but with the full will to contribute to introduce elements even minimal improvement. This was not allowed to us and the country must know. School managers are already overburdened with tasks with obvious resource problems. They are charged with additional responsibilities including the most difficult and risky of the school system is to hire and fire teachers from their own institution. It therefore presents itself as a step forward towards autonomy, what is actually the exact opposite. In fact, the pyramidal system that then submits to the evaluation and judgment of the Government, of the political part, the acts carried out by the school manager, submitted to the evaluation of the regional direction which is appointed by the political part, that is, by the Ministry, it vulnerates the principle of autonomy and independence of the school. For this reason it is a serious, very serious bluff that evidently pushes in a perverse direction the sacred system of formation, because on that system is founded the formative process of an entire generation, of an entire community. Another point to consider is the revision and the current adaptation of the school structure of the collegial bodies, which are now forty years old. Another controversial point is the assumptional plan. We call for absolute equal treatment between the school's precarious, while the bill creates a disparity among them too, because it provides for recruitment only from the graduations when exhausted, excluding the precarious ones included in the so-called third band. I come to the conclusion that today's is a crime. It is an unforgivable crime, because it is subject to the evaluation of the House a measure without it, in fact, having the opportunity to contribute to improving the measure itself. Colleagues, colleagues, government gentlemen, this is the time for responsibility. When the country finds itself in a situation of objective difficulty, we must aim for the recovery of the so-called ethics of responsibility, which is the watchword to rebuild and give strength to democracy, to rebuild the social cohesion that creaks and represents a prejudice for the democratic holding of our country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You must conclude, Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CRI). The quality of legislative production - and I conclude - depends on the maintenance of democracy. I believe that this becomes even more true when the subject of legislative production concerns such a central issue in the interests of society as a whole: school and training processes. I believe that having failed to see the presence of this responsibility is an absolutely serious act of which this Government assumes the full burden. The country needs to know. [[Applause from the CRI Group and Senator Malan]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u72	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u73	Madam President, you called it a good school, but in the end we will talk only and exclusively about those 39 pages delivered to the Committee on Culture in haste and fury. We're going to talk about the government's maxi amendment because mediation failed, that's what you said. Perhaps it failed because the number of amendments was high or probably because so many and so good were the advice given to you and too many things that were not going well in this law even after the last text you have tabled. That is why you have put your trust, or rather you will put your trust in the Commission to work together in order to improve the text after you have so much called for help, for cooperation. You used the Grimaldello and you spoke only of the 100,000 assumptions, as if the whole law were about this point. The problem is that, in addition to this issue, we have seen some changes in the façade, how to throw smoke in the eyes of the workers and not. As in the case of the powers of the principals: it is absolutely useless and it made me smile a little 'the fact that it has been specified that they will not be able to hire family members or relatives, as if this clarification were due; it is so due and obvious that this confirms only in part and in a clear way the error of entrusting to one person all these powers. And we, as League, have also been accused of brandishing the result of the regional elections to curb the government's agenda: wrong, wrong. We brand common sense, the right choices, the right procedures, the desire to fix and correct the wrong things: this we brand. So, Mr. Renzi, you're flunked. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]] Some claimed that, speaking of quarries and mines, those who more than one miner could do so: ability, ambition, knowledge of matter, self-denial at work. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have been schooled here too, and I would say a good school: who could be given advice on prison reform if not someone who knew you very well? And in this case good Sofri has shown more common sense than Minister Orlando by refusing the assignment. Here too, Prime Minister, you are flunked. The reform of the land registry was also schooled: a huge mess. A first-rate surveyor would certainly have done better, just because, as I said, it would have been someone who knew the matter. So, Mr. Renzi, you're failing here, too. He also did good school on the issue of Greece. Germany and France have, each, 50 billion to receive from that country, but Italy is 40, but they sit at the table to find solutions, while you from this table are deliberately kept away. Renzi, failed. Then he went to school on how to campaign with the citizens' money. With 80 euros before the European elections, it obtained about 42% of the votes. Regional election campaign without money distribution? A lot of millions of votes lost. Here too, Renzi failed. I'll tell you a little story. A gentleman was an agronomist in Sardinia and, having to organize the first piles of land of Gallura, began to interloquire with the peasants asking to build those beautiful walls that are located in Gallura between one border and the other. It's the '40s-'50s. He asked to be quick, but the peasants all responded in the same way: You, doctor, ask us to do it soon, all in one night and in one day, but when someone looks at this wall, in many years, the judgment he will give, will be whether this wall is done well or done badly. He will not judge by the fact that I had her on me that he wants to force me to do this wall in a day instead of a month. This he reported, about his grandfather, that good gentleman who had also been quite serene: Enrico Letta. Madam President, the League is against this measure in a clear and clear way. How well did the wise farmer of Gallura worry about how his work would be judged, we judge your work in a negative way. No one likes this bill, much less we do the League. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u74	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u75	Madam President, it is extremely paradoxical that even when the Government proposes good measures that go in the sense that I have repeatedly wished, namely the introduction, within the Italian system, of efficiency criteria, of third verification of productivity, of quality of service (in this case we are talking about the most eminent of services, that of education), it ends with adopting certain procedures and imposing a muscular test impoverishing, I must tell the truth, the good intentions with which one like me has taken steps to evaluate this reform in substance. It is probably the fate of Prime Minister Renzi to wear the role of the reformer in the morning - in this case he has also succeeded - but without being able to overcome the irrepressible desire to change during the day, wearing the shoes of the tyrant, that is, someone who wants to impose a timing and a modality on Parliament, making weird, for the truth, both regulations and common sense. Anyone who listens to us - I do not know how many are outside this House - must know that we are discussing a legal text which, from now on, will be completely modified by the presentation of a large amendment of which not everyone is aware and which basically makes this debate pleonastic, because it does not concern the document which will then be the subject of the imposition of trust and therefore the free manifestation of the thought and will of the senators. I said that because they taught me that very often the method is substance. On the other hand, the case law teaches that the form and obedience to the procedures are the first guarantee for the citizen subject to some procedure or that he has applied for the protection of his rights. So here we are dealing with the procedure and the contribution that Parliament can make to the improvement of a text of law which I consider to be sufficient (I shall shortly say why). However, I must clear the field from some of the statements I have just heard: the question of masters and servants. I would like to quote an undisputed pedagogue, Don Lorenzo Milani, when he reminded us of this concept of servitude: he said that servitude is obedience that has no virtue. I do not believe that this bill is subject to any responsibility to be succubus and prone to an executive or commission that will have to assess attitudes, titles and merits. This reform - let me repeat this - always recalls Don Milani, when, in the beginning of the Letter to a teacher, it specifies: This book is not written for teachers, but for parents. And I would like to talk about this reform not because of what teachers like, but because of what it can do to improve the amount of knowledge and education that a different organized school can give pupils and parents. And then it is also good here to clear the field from those who struggle to invoke, just because there is a relief of 400 euros a year for those who write their children to equal schools, which the Constitution speaks of public service, not of state service. The peer school carries out a public service, because it is accessible to all and is free of charge to those entitled to it. I do not understand why we, who fought, under the impulse of Ferdinando Adornato, Dario Antiseri, Marcello Pera, for the good school, so that even those who do not have income or can not allow them to enroll in the most qualified and expensive schools their children, today we come to censor a law that, at least, introduces a recognition, even if minimal, in economic terms for those tens of thousands of families that the school pays twice: paying taxes and not being able or not wanting to use a school that, massified and stately, has become a social shock absorber, a salary, the place of reception and social assistance, no longer the place of cultural education of our children. This law introduces new elements. Then we will see what are the rewards (and also some dancing or exaggeration of our President-in-Office of the Council). What are the elements that should interest us? What more and better can this type of reform give to schoolchildren? It is clear that, if the merit is measured by the tests to which pupils and teachers are subjected, we introduce a meritorious criterion, which already affects many other professions in everyday practice, which is that of the verification of results. How could the manfrine of those who claim to judge others on the basis of merit and to escape themselves from the verification of what they know and what they are able to teach the children? But that doesn't interest many people, let's face it. The school has become for years, under the aegis of the statist left, a place of comfort, a niche of privilege, the safe place, the state place, almost always close home and almost always to accompany the kind sex, which would have had time and way to look after the sonship, with an hourly commitment of just eighteen hours per week. Who denies these things...Montevecchi (M5S). Me. D'ANNA (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PpI, IdV, VGF, FV)). ...denies the history of the school of the last thirty years. If in the merit and evaluation rankings we are close to the Belgian Congo and not to the United States of America it means that there is something that did not work in the school. Then why be shocked that there is someone to evaluate and be evaluated in turn? Why has the principal become the sheriff, waiting for him to determine, with the council of teachers, criteria to be made public for the choice of teachers? We are opposed to the fact that the assessment criteria are no longer the domestic courts, made by those who do the projects, if they judge them, and they settle what follows, but there is the introduction of an external verification, therefore of a third party capable of verifying. Well, I challenge any of you who have been part of a class board to say if you have counted more than two trumps in the didactic address, to go and question evaluation parameters that were true semantic formulas. That's the truth. To the teachers who protest I say that the fact that for the beginning of September 20,000 AGE teachers are hired and those who are winners of the 2012 public competition is positive, as is the fact that for December 2015 there is a competition with a quota reserved for those who have qualified, to which the State has said: spend this money, follow this path of TFA and PAS. In short, I believe that many sources of inequality against those who claimed the so-called acquired straights have been eliminated at the base. This reform costs EUR 3 billion, and nobody says that because money is public, that is taxpayers' money, so it is nobody's money. Every criterion, gentlemen of the Government, Mr. Undersecretary for Education, that can transform this vast mass of money not into the comfort of the salary and the safe place of the teacher, but in increasing the knowledge of the teachers is money well spent. Woe if the opposite happens again. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, MpA, NPSI, PpI, IdV, VGF, FV) and Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I know that time is short but - please - read the forty pages of the bill and then run away, to the sea, to the mountains or wherever you want, but do not vote on it, because this is the worst of so many - and very bad - reforms that this Parliament has launched in seventy years. Think of the evaluation of teachers, necessary, indispensable, but which must be exercised by persons competent in pedagogy, in the matter of teaching and who have accompanied the teacher in his work in class. It cannot be entrusted to a firing squad (the manager, two teachers, a parent) who smells and, it is said, even the slanders collects, those slanders that always accompany the life of a teacher, but who does not see, who does not know what the daily commitment of the professor in the class, among the pupils, among his children. It is as if in a large hospital he relied on a chief of staff or an orthopedist to evaluate the quality of a research to combat cancer, and then to hire the researchers who carried it out. The law completely lacks an idea of formation for those born in the third millennium. Do we really need more subjects, more notions to learn, more tests to pass? No. Mathematics is taught again at university, so philosophy, or Latin, or law. What our children need is a civic, republican culture; it is necessary to educate them in comparison and respect, it is necessary to offer them a multipurpose logical formation. You know, both humanist science - as Renzi calls it - and mathematics can be game, fantasy, stimulus to confront logic, the thought that is articulated in different forms; music and mathematics, Latin and Roman law, magnificent example of inclusion. It is the method that is needed, not a litany of rules. Because after the license, maybe at the age of 18 - that is a year before, as happens in other countries - our boys can choose how and where to continue studying, what opportunity to take on the fly. Even more so, this reasoning applies to industry. Think of the mechatronics in Reggio Emilia: do you really believe that there is a need for a person who has learned to repeat the same operation at the lathe? No, rather a lively, flexible boy is needed, capable of changing jobs and putting into the product that added value, which everywhere is called "productivity". In the reform there is not even an idea or mission for public school. He often uses a magical word: "autonomy" (i.e. "autonomy"). But autonomy without a strong equalization investment - which is completely lacking - separates the destinies of the A series schools from those of the B series schools. The latter, in the disadvantaged neighborhoods, will certainly give life to many projects, which will pro temporate the teacher from the Calvary of teaching and give points and merits to the manager. Of course, these schools will invite companies, if they are around, to recruit labour and perhaps raise the minimum threshold of votes, to redo the blason at school. At best, these schools will propose, in 2016 sauce, that old professional start-up, which was an advanced system at the time of Gentile, in 1923. What will happen in the beautiful neighborhoods? Apparently, another music: the manager will be able to attract and reward the best professors and new disciplines will be introduced to study, in the illusion of being able to guarantee our children, the children of the middle class, at least the maintenance of their ancient social status. This is an illusion, however, because proletarianisation of the middle classes, in Europe and America, is an unstoppable trend. Moms, you can send your boys to class all your life, but you can't guarantee them to become notaries, great doctors or archistars. It would be better, much better, if, together with the useful, they learned logic, languages and civic spirit, in a truly national, public school and for everyone. You could then jump at the ball that ENI offers, when he hires a philosopher to study scenarios in Africa, or an American hospital, who seeks not a doctor who knows everything, for example, on the arm, but a doctor who is also an engineer, or the Conseil européen pour la recherche nucléaire (CERN), who needs elastic intelligences suitable for team work. We don't talk about this in the law. There is, instead, a very clear message to the teacher, to whom they say: be punished! Rights? No, duties! The national contract? Better a cadeaux from the government, with direct rewards and hirings, but on condition that all the teachers enter, gradually, the staff said of the autonomy and submit to the command of the manager, longa manus of the power of the government. All in line, with the hat in hand. And these teachers are supposed to be teachers for our boys? School politicians: to this you will reduce them! Ladies Senators, while the Government postpones the reform of the land register - it seems that the councilmen did not tell Renzi that the cadastral value of a popular accommodation would increase six times in Naples and four times in Rome - while stuttering on the moral question, hiding behind furry guarantees, and still has not arrived even the suspension for De Luca, here is the choice to pass in force on the school. Is this because of the opposition's obstructionism? No, President Marcucci never used that term: he told me this morning and Senator Calderoli was with us. It is the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" that would put it in his mouth, perhaps confusing the answers of Marcucci and the daily veils that arrive to the newspapers from Palazzo Chigi. This act of force, with the schools closed and the confrontation postponed to September, serves only to hide the inability in everyday governance: think of immigration, the capital mafia and the irrelevance of Italy in the Greek dossier. The Premier is confronted with the difficulties of the Government and, of course, the fault is not his: it is difficult to govern without an efficient bureaucracy and when there is no widespread ethical sense. This test of strength, however, serves to revive the promise ofrenziana, saying: not government, but I will rule, if Parliament gives me powers over everything and if, forcing the bet even more, our democracy will simply be reduced to electing directly a Prime Minister, who will then be unmoved for five years. This kind of forcing, however, does not work and the school becomes the victim of this gamble. Renzi would have wanted to open it, but someone advised him to close and move on. Perhaps he understood that it would be better to stop and discuss, but then he prevailed the Jacobine desire to pass from empire, at the cost of giving us a law, of which we can only say that it is an old law. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bocchino]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u78	He's enlisted to speak Senator Sibilia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u79	Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as Vice President of the Education Commission, I can safely say that the debate in the Commission has been very interesting and has allowed all political forces to speak, analyse and evaluate in depth and above all passionately the subject of the school, thanks to the deep knowledge of the sector by its members. Having said that, however, I would like to take a little step back in time - not too small, because the President-in-Office's proclamations about his school reform begin a few hours after his controversial establishment at Palazzo Chigi - to underline how, once again, his flagrant school reform is in reality nothing but a reorganization, a downward compromise hastily sought in the open and continuous confrontation that goes on stage daily in the Democratic Party and that consumes inexorably, day after day, its contradictions on the Italians' skin. Returning, precisely, at the beginning of the reform process, the Premier caught in fact with a single blow two electoral public: the center-right audience (using words that belong to the liberal culture of Forza Italia as "merito", "carriera", "evaluation", "premiaality", "openness to the territory of agreement with the enterprises", "recognization of the peer schools", "possibility of private funding to the schools", and the public of the center-left, with the mantra of the fight against precariousness and mass recruitment. An unprecedented propaganda speculation for a sector, that of education and training of young people, which is the only real resource of ours for the future of a poor Italy of other resources. Dear colleagues, I use these expressions because what remains of the slides and tweets of Renzi and the proclamations of Minister Giannini on good school is a horrible mediation that does not innovate anything. Today we are faced with a number of punctual interventions that, close between the different conservatisms of the union, on the one hand, and of the Democratic Party, on the other hand, do not represent in any way a reform of the school able to grow autonomy, responsibility and quality of the school itself. The two aspects which could have introduced new elements were not addressed: full financial autonomy, with stable and programmable resources allocated directly to schools since the beginning of the financial year, and statutory autonomy, in order to leave schools or school networks the choice of the most appropriate and consistent organisational models with the educational project of the institutions. In 2015 this so-called reform is limited to reaffirming that school autonomy must still refer today to the original prediction of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 275 of 1999, following the Law Bassanini of 1997 and preceding all the debate of constitutionalization of autonomy occurred in Title V. He also shouts revenge at the redefinition of the role of the school manager. A downward compromise that places a collegiate dimension at the centre of the school organisation, which proposes an approach based on the control of procedures, rather than on the evaluation of results and a participatory dimension introduced by the decrees delegated in 1974; the same possibility to choose a part of the teachers from territorial albums, in which many had recognized elements of the bill of Forza Italia of 2008. What will certainly remain and condition negatively for the next decades Italian education is the sanatoria planned for the precarious of the graduations when exhausted. Nobody is deceived: it is certainly not the recruitment of 100,000 teachers without evaluation that will put an end to the precarious. The history of the recruitment of teachers presents ordinary exceptionalities that have reproduced the precarious: graduations of precarious from which to draw for recruitments with reserved competitions, or for only titles, or with no competition that have as common point of arrival the assumption in mass. The political result of the continuous delays on the school bill, from September last year to today, is that, as we have always said, the recruitments from 1 September 2015 will be half and with the old system. Teachers in the training system, i.e. the other 48,812 posts, will only be recruited legally and in the course of the school year, and therefore the staff of the autonomy is de facto postponed by one year. For the ministerial machine it is late to proceed to all the assumptions for the beginning of the school year. This umpteenth recruitment plan, which will cost three billion euros a year, will not remedy the problem of precariousness and will risk frustrating the path towards the OECD average in the student-teacher relationship. It will mark a gap on segmentation between the staff of the school, discriminating between the same precarious teachers and above all closes to any hypothesis of generational change, raising to an extent the average age of the Italian teachers. Instead, I would like to remind you that in 2010 the Berlusconi Government with Minister Gelmini established ratings with active training courses with a closed number (TFA), linking selective and university qualification courses with the needs of teachers in schools. Too bad that with the ministers Profumo and Carrozza these paths have been devalued and today once again, incomprehensible, the qualified TFA of the Berlusconi government, more qualified and certainly younger, have been excluded from the plan of extraordinary recruitment. Also on the recruitment of teachers the Democratic Party and the same union confirm a defensive vision, unable to understand the need for a new legal state that includes professional standards, rewards and evaluation. Then we do not talk about your attitude to every attempt to put in place the governance of schools, ready to shout to the company if you expect a minimum of vertical organization or privatization if you allow the school to open up to the territory and the economic fabric. These are just some of the good reasons why this measure (I refuse to call it reform) is a bad measure that our Group has managed to improve. Both in the Chamber and in the Senate, in fact, we avoided the unconstitutionality of exclusion from the recruitment plan of the eligible teachers of the 2012 contest and yet another anti-meritocrat competition reserved only for seniority. The main innovations of the maxi amendment to the school bill are to be traced back to the thrust of Forza Italia. Thanks to us, an external expert has also been introduced to the evaluation committee for teachers who guarantee third-party status; in fact, it is expected that an outsider, an inspector or an executive or an experienced teacher, designated by the regional school office, will be present. The presence of an outsider to the school, which is then a request also of the teachers who have contacted us, guarantees third-partyness and autonomy of judgment, a greater control by the regional school offices. There is a second battle that Forza Italia has won, a sign that when the opposition is reasoned and responsible it serves more and helps to change the country, and it is that of merit. Thanks to the contribution of Forza Italia from now on, it will only be taken up by competition, as provided for in the Constitution (three-year competitions), and will end, we hope forever, the rankings that run only for seniority. The candidates of the 2012 teachers' competition have been included in the recruitment overtime, which have been recruited since the school year 2015-2016. An act of justice and meritocracy: 320,000 people participated in that contest and only seven percent passed the tests; and then there is no distinction between eligible and winners! All the qualified, TFA and PAS (active training and special enabling routes) will be able to participate in the competition that will be banned by December 2015. A competition for titles and exams in which we hope to be recognized and evaluated the merit of those who have passed the formative and selective path like the TFA. Unfortunately, peer schools are still a ghost in our education system. The possibility of deduction of fees should be increased but, above all, our system needs the introduction of the standard cost that would allow the efficiency of the system and free resources. I would also like to mention: the modification of recruitment only for three-year contest (as provided for in Article 97 of the Constitution), with the creation of a 10% of eligible students (competition means merit and therefore: inclusion of the eligible students of the 2012 competition in the extraordinary plan of recruitment and insertion of an external, technical manager that is inspector, in the evaluation committee teachers, as I have already mentioned; the special role for schools in prison; the inclusion of the plan of improvement of schools provided for by the decree of the President of the Republic n. 80 of 2013 in the plan of the training offer; the possibility of using for the teaching of English, music, motor education in the primary school teachers qualified for teaching in primary school possessing certified skills and teachers also for other degrees of education as specialists, for example teachers specialists in motor education or music. It should also be noted that the establishment in the register of enterprises in the chambers of commerce, industry and crafts and agriculture of the national register for school-work alternation; the establishment and development of school networks; compliance with the criteria and methods of use of teachers in the networks of the existing provisions on non-discrimination in the workplace and on the assistance and integration of persons with disabilities; the evaluation of school managers and the inclusion of equal schools among the recipients of liberal payments in money intended for investments. We then helped remove the 5 per thousand which, as it was written, was not good because it created conflict between schools and ONLUS and we worked to strengthen the role of the school council, where there are parents. The battles that Forza Italia has led and won to improve the bill in question are many and accuse the opposition of having tried to slip the approval is a clumsy attempt as embarrassing. The truth is before the eyes of all Italians: the times were too short to allow an orderly and regular beginning of the school year. In conclusion, once again this Government has forced its hand to prevent a parliamentary Vietnam from unleashing on its reform and, precisely to remain in the metaphor used, dear President Renzi, could end with his runaway from Palazzo Chigi. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u80	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u81	Madam President, the school over the last twenty years has been chosen by all successive governments as the ground on which to measure the ideological confrontation in the name of reformism, from Berlinguer to Gelmini, no one excluded. The result was a cut of 10 billion euros with consequent subtractions of important human resources, of time-school and no real investment, no cultural or social proposal. The liberal policies of these years and then the choice of austerity have contributed to impoverishing our entire public education system. In times of great economic crisis, but also social and cultural, the Italian state public school was a bastion of social equality and survived thanks to the work, professionalism, passion, experience, dedication of teachers, school leaders, ATA staff and students. Therefore, we would have expected it to be the "good time to change the other way around": to return resources, increase them, take on all precarious people, give back school time, return to school the public recognition that has been deprived of in recent years, direct resources towards compulsory schooling, resources for the right to study in order to face a real social emergency. Today, many, too many, say that they are not able to face the costs of their children's school: from books, to school cafeteria, to the famous voluntary contribution on which they do not continue to intervene, to the high costs of the university. This government, on the other hand, has chosen another path. In August he presented us with a document "The good school" that seems to have submitted to a wide consultation, but of which we do not know the numbers well; at the beginning of 2015 the state propaganda announced several times the arrival of a decree-law, indeed before a decree-law then a bill. On March 12, the slides of presentation of the bill announce the reform to student size, forgetting to include in it any reference to the right to study and to student welfare. The figure of the principal appears. The reformative action of the Government revolves around the figure of the principal/union, principal/prefect, understood not as the representative of the citizens but as the man alone in command, without more owls and brakes, transforming the school into a company where the manager/ principal can finally manage autonomy, find funding, define the training objectives and, on the basis of those, choose the teachers most suitable to achieve them. It is a figure in complete continuity with your idea of democracy, that of entrusting the command to one man. The most anticipated announcement of course concerns the assumption of precarious persons. The government first announces to hire 148,000, then 120,000, now 100,701. What about the others? With contemptuous tone we are shown the path of the contest, with the promise to recognize the titles obtained for a score, perhaps; obviously net of its unconstitutionality. We are reminded, always with contempt, that in the public administration we enter by competition, as laid down in Article 97 of the Constitution, almost to imply that teachers, in a clever way, want to be hired without making any selection. But who are the teachers? Those who described Senator D'Anna or perhaps are precarious teachers with one or more degrees, specialization courses, masters and skill courses that the various governments have imposed on them to declare them qualified for teaching: I am thinking of schools specializing in secondary education (SSIS), active training courses (TFA) and special skill courses (PAS); I am thinking of teachers who have been teaching for eight, ten, fifteen years in school with continuity, of precarious stories that have lasted for years and years, of teachers of fifty-five years who have always been precarious. Do we know what it means to be precarious, not to be sure of the future, to work from September to June? By the way, all the data tell us that recruitment would cost less and therefore would be even more beneficial to the state. These are the years of the children, of the mortgage, in which you grow professionally and you should be able to take advantage of all the moments of formation. The precarious, just to remind us, did not make the contests because the governments and the various ministers have introduced other ways of accessing the teaching of concorrosual value: they have not escaped, but they claim a right, because you cannot suddenly see themselves canceling their future just because you do not have the courage to reverse the course and invest in education just to get out of the crisis, as many other European countries do. We then ask what will happen to all of them and are not allowed the trivializations that we have heard in recent months, not least that school is not a social shock absorber, says the President of the Council, forgetting that social shock absorbers are a serious thing because they often allow the unemployed to survive. You have announced to the country that with good school it would end the precarious, instead you have triggered a war between teachers, between precarious, against each other, to boast a right of precedence in the name of stability and certainty of life. We have proposed to you an excerpt from recruitment and a multiannual plan, and the blackmail with which you have stubbornly wanted to keep the two things together is unacceptable. Since you settled, this Government has done nothing but operate through decree-laws, with 34 trusts, and the only time there would be the criteria of necessity and urgency for a decree-law, that of hiring precarious persons, this has not been done. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]] This is then a serious political choice, for which you must take responsibility, but you have not done so, in the name of returning your work to Parliament. You have shown false availability and false listening: in all the hearings we have done, both in the House and in the Senate, no reservations and perplexities have been expressed, but true oppositions. What did you say? You laughed at them, saying that the unions held the school hostage and preferred the old-age shots rather than discussing the contractual increases. False, and you have not said that the salaries of teachers in Italy are the lowest in Europe, under the European average of a third, and have been blocked since 2009; but since you have an idea of work as a concession and not as a right, for you workers are subjects, to whom the complacency and evaluation of the superior will grant a prize in money. But do words such as dignity and fairness say something to you? You are so obsessed with the merit that you have fallen into a debate chasing the worst categories that the right has used in recent years, without knowing that, more than evaluating the merit, today in the school it would be necessary to give back motivations, and not only economic, to those disappointed teachers, tired and demotivated by years of abandonment. In the name of merit you are passing the message that teachers are all poorly prepared and that the school is full of bad teachers: just for your information, teachers do so many courses, masters and cultural changes at their own expense, despite you have forgotten in these years to unblock their contracts and increase salaries. "The manager proposes the appointment," you told us, "it doesn't choose them": well, but what will this produce? Dangerous logics of obedience, clientele and blackmail, contrary to the educational and formative function of the school and to the freedom of teaching, as protected by the Constitution. The manager chooses the teachers every three years: it will be like working in a temporary agency and, in order to hope to be reconfirmed, we will have to do everything to be worthy and please the manager, starting from being a perfect performer silent of the training objectives imposed by him. Keeping assumptions together with this bill - I repeat - is still your political choice, which you have masked behind an alleged technical opinion of the MIUR, which - I must say - we have been demanding for more than a month and we have not yet been able to see. In the name of that technical opinion, you imposed very fast times on us, about which we have already spoken at the beginning of our debate and then we suddenly discover that the House will vote on the decree on 7 July. Here we must be clear: but do these times become fast every time we discuss in the Senate? Every time they become forced, moreover absolutely incomprehensible, since the juice of the bill will only come into operation in 2016 and that this year's assumptions would have been made even without your bill? But this is also a truth that you do not tell. We are therefore opposed to the cultural structure of your bill: we have presented another bill, that of popular initiative signed by more than 100,000 citizens, that with another idea of school, inclusive, of equality, with innovative teaching practices, with new safe classrooms, with accessible teaching materials, with less crowded classes where one can teach and especially where one can learn. Instead you have the idea of a school of competition between teachers, pupils, executives, teachers and even between cities, cities and between neighborhoods. In recent years, the idea has been conveyed that the school does not work, not because it has been considered a cost and the worst spending reviews have come down on it, but because the participation of the collegial bodies, democracy, the shared choices have not helped the sburocratizzazione and have blocked the full implementation of the autonomy of the scholastic introduced wickedly by Berlinguer and by you today interpreted by concentrating the powers in the hands of a man only at the command. I close by saying that with this blow to the school and with this umpteenth forcing you are inflicting a very hard blow to democracy, yet another blow to this government. For us, we are once again in yet another democratic emergency. You're messing with reality, you're telling lies, and a little bit you may be convinced as if they were truth because they're lies so unreal that they're hard to believe. When Berlusconi did it, you of the Democratic Party did not hesitate to go to the streets and shout at the democratic danger. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and the Mussini and Malan Senators]] Today it is you who do this and talk about democracy. Then I ask the comrades and travel companions of the Democratic Party with whom we have shared the battles and for freedom of teaching, for public school: how do you vote in favour of this bill? Why do you submit to this vile blackmail? This is not about our destiny, but about equal opportunities, access to education, culture and knowledge. The future of the new generations is under discussion. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and the Senators Mussini, Bocchino and Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u82	Senator Elena Ferrara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the report presented by the Childhood and Adolescence Supervisor two days ago in the Senate shows that more than 25% of minors and 37% of young people live in a sense of exclusion in their relationship with the State and their living environment. A large proportion of boys and girls do nothing or face the frustration of what they consider impossible access to work. In the last fifteen years almost three million Italian students enrolled in state high schools have not completed the course of studies. Italy denounces more than 17% of school dispersal, which places it at the very last places in Europe. In Italy child labour has grown and exploitation takes place throughout the national territory. What does this have to do with the school bill? To hear the debates of the last few weeks it seems that the attention is really turned elsewhere. The school is designed for students and must address them. This is a real priority. Children's rights and the role of the child in society are at stake. That's the challenge. Unfortunately, the public debate on this bill seems to have lost sight of many contributions of merit and content received from many interlocutors, starting with the school world during the large consultation launched in September by the Government on the document "Good School." We have a lot to do not only in the school, but certainly starting from it to answer the new training question. The school system certainly has many good practices that have not been ignored, but that come to reverberate in a homogeneous way on the national territory with the due and expected increase of economic and professional resources inescapable for a quality school. In our country there are 800,000 minors in the area of material and cultural poverty. According to the latest estimates on youth discomfort in Italy there are about 30,000 minors who do not leave their rooms for weeks and months. They are those who in Japan call the hikikomori, who cancel themselves in the virtual society for the sense of shame and inadequacy. We addressed the issue of the relationship with the network a few weeks ago in the Senate with the approval of the bill for the prevention and contrast of the phenomenon of cyberbullying. The proposal under discussion today, the school bill, is absolutely focused on this issue as well. These phenomena should all call us to a deep sense of responsibility. A proper analysis of the juvenile world should suggest that the government on school is not lurking, but tries to respond to an urgent need that does not seem to be fully perceived by the community. The problem of the school was placed at the centre and the country immediately activated. Italy has found itself discussing the organizational model, teacher training, levels of preparation and competence, right to study, security, active citizenship, gender education. There are many points of view, ideological regiments, self-referentialities, and hyperboli that are also extremed in this House. But I want to highlight some points on which I think there are important convergences: more strength to school autonomy; more training for teachers; more cooperation with territorial services, the third sector, university and research and more collaboration between the autonomous regions in the territorial networks; more laboratory activity focused on advanced teaching methodology and an alternation of school-work more widespread and better managed, open also to the fields of social culture; more art and music in the formation of the person and the citizen; more freedom for secondary students of second degree in the construction of their curriculum, that is to put them in the conditions of exploring new areas of knowledge and cultivating attitudes and talents that from a very small point of view must be able to experience in everyday experience, inside and outside the school. Also from the sponsor's report, in 2014 67 percent of the children and boys between the ages of six and seventeen never went to the theater, 55 percent never went to a museum, 23 percent never went to the cinema, 80 percent never went to a music concert, but the highest value is referred to classical music and opera with 89 percent. It comes to mind the thought of Master Abbado, who considered the cultural goods real aqueducts able to respond to a primary right such as water. A right to culture clearly denied today in the non-compliance with international conventions. In this climate we note the likes and applause on social media towards the young teacher from Marche who among the vacation tasks invited his students to admire the sunrise, to read and dream of the future. We treasure this success for a reflection: our girls, preteens, girls and boys must be able to practice these activities even during the educational process in the school, and right there they must be able to share dreams and aesthetic emotions. They should be given the right to know humanistic culture, the beauty of music and the landscape. Here is how to read the strengthening of the musical and artistic experience, the need for historical and philosophical culture and the history of the arts, the development of critical consciousness towards the media and the more direct and extended access to our artistic and cultural heritage. Aspects contained in the draft law and dealt with in the delegation on humanistic culture, which follows the unanimous approval in 7th Commission of the resolution "Cultural Offering in the Musical Sector." A delegation on which the Prime Minister has committed himself, valorising the training chain that must be seen in strong interconnection with that of cultural production and innovation. Sectors, that of Made in Italy in the field of tourism-cultural, with great potential also employment, but that needs a first requirement: that it is the first Italian people to be the most aware admirer of the quality of their cultural offer. If the country has understood that, in a situation of economic and social crisis like this, starting from school can be a great opportunity to talk about us, about our identity, about our being in Europe and in the world, we must all the more focus on the enrichment of artistic curricula, from the very first childhood to the high academic and university education. With the school bill many training segments can be implemented immediately with the recruitment of teachers, with new economic resources and with the restart of the laboratory didactics. But I recommend to the government, since the agendas have fallen, to take some of them to heart at my first signature: the one on the need to create specific competition classes for the Korean-musical high schools, which have been waiting for years to regularize the recruitment of teachers; the attention to the TFA of musical instrument in the drafting of competition notices and the request to activate shortly a table of confrontation in order to face the criticalities of the academies sector. I also remember the focus on the philosophy I have already mentioned. If the media clamour around the school, beyond the tactics of politics, has a merit, it is certainly to have moved the spotlight finally in the direction of an area on which our present and not only our future depends. I remind myself of this: there was an initial initiative and it was the initiative of the Government, which decided to invest in the school system by including the appropriate resources in the law of stability 2015. The commitment that I share with other Members, starting with those committed to the 7th Commission, for which I thank President Marcucci and the rapporteurs, is to monitor with attention and determination what will happen in the coming months and especially in the first years of implementation of the organisational model. In the interest of what we have most important: students and students! [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u84	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u85	Here it is: this is the Act of the Senate 1934, every page one ear, every ear more filthy. This is the juice. I don't have much time at my disposal, but some bullshit you've told me, I want to take it apart, one by one, as is my costume. The first dance: this text was improved motion in the passage Camera-Senato. But it's the same, you haven't improved anything: let's not tell them, at least these; at least the basic bales, Avoid them. Secondly, it is not even well known what the text will be voted on, because a 35-page amendment has appeared in the Commission entirely replacing the first 26 articles: perhaps it will be the maxi amendment, perhaps it will not be. The great news in this text we are now going to explain, and then I will explain the juice, the fat, of the basic text. The great news is that the famous direct call of the professors by the principal will be sled by a year. I believe that you are trying to keep them good, because after they made a demonstration in which they said that they will no longer vote on you, you, very attentive to the electoral outcome, decided to keep them good hoping that they will forget about it. I hope they do not forget; in any case, we will ensure that they do not forget. Let's see what this package proposes for teachers: it proposes a great deal of stupidity. If one reads this text well, he notices that the teacher will become a person who will consume the language furiously to lick the B side of colleagues, principals, parents and students, because this is the evaluation of the teachers you want to introduce. The teacher will first be evaluated by his colleagues and therefore the evaluator will not be able to misjudge the evaluator, because the next round could touch him. As a poet used to say, we're butchers, and one lap we're slaughtered. Among those who will evaluate teachers there will also be parents and, for the final part of high school, second grade secondary, there will also be students with a representative. [[Comments of Senator Tonini]] When will a professor be a good professor? Stop talking to teachers, students and teachers. The good professor is the one who does not give too many tasks and does not give low grades, otherwise the children come home and complain. These are stories of life; if you don't know them, let them tell you. [[Comments of Senator Tonini]] It's useless for him to do that. That's the truth. The professor will have to be the one who will not displease its users.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u86	As your colleague, Mr Santangelo, often suggests, you should address the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u87	MARTELLI (M5S). Such a criterion will bring down the quality of teaching, because the professor will not want to become bad. This has already been experienced with the university. I taught both of them, so I know exactly what I'm talking about. The university's evaluation has become the following: the university is worth as much on the basis of how many students in progress are graduating. Well, my reference teachers told me not to flunk people, because they had to close in time; if they didn't finish college in time, it lost money because it lost points. You want to take this same criterion to high school. This does not mean that we are opposed to teachers being evaluated, but yours is not a good evaluation criterion. It's like making the waiter of a restaurant evaluate his other fellow waiters: they will never be able to say it wrong, because on the next round he could say bad about them. This is what could happen. Another aspect I'm thinking about is what you think about students. What you think of the students is summarized as follows: the plan of the educational offer of a school will have to take into account the social, cultural and economic context of the territory. You understand that there is no homogeneity of the social, economic and industrial context of the territory between, for example, a disadvantaged area of Campania and Sicily and the rich Trentino-Alto Adige. The school will reflect a different reality: this you want to achieve. The principal, the school leader, will be the Plenipotentiary who will make contact - as it is written - with the realities of the territory. In an area where, for example, there is the blast furnace and there is the steel mill - as it is already happening - he will contact the owner of the steel mill and thus it will become beautiful. In an area where there is the incinerator, such as in Brescia, the incinerator will become beautiful. It is already happening: he already goes around the schools to tell how beautiful the incinerator is, with the approval of the school leaders. Instead, in a place where there is an idyllic thing, such as the ski slopes in Trentino-Alto Adige, a whole different reality will be taught, because the social and cultural reality is different. A parent who wants access to a quality school, in which the degraded context of the territory does not condition his child, will then have to take him to a city and a region where the conditions are better; and this to the face of the school equal for all. This is what you are proposing for people. As for hiring, even here you made a meat loaf of numbers to hide the truth. Hirings are around 100,000, of which 42,000 are for the replacement of staff; but this does not go around saying so. So, actually, 100,000 minus 42,000 turns out to be 58,000. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Martelli. MARTELLI (M5S). These 58,000, the last table of the amendment tabled by the rapporteurs, represent the staff of autonomy. It is still not clear, therefore, what autonomy is, that is, the call of the principal. What about the others? Who else are they and how many are they? There's practically no one left. There are 3,500 people left. So real assumptions may be down to 3,500. This is the reform that you have in mind: a disqualified professor and students who will have to be brought from time to time to the place deemed best. If this is the reform you have in mind, it is a reform that brings back to the Middle Ages: those who were rich had a quality school, while those who were poor attacked. Congratulations! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u88	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to begin my general discussion on the draft law on good school with a first figure. This bill began, in the Government's intentions, as the greatest listening exercise in the school world. Well, almost ironically it ended up being the highest moment of detachment that we have ever experienced in this legislature between a government measure and the community of reference to which this provision is dedicated. Despite the listening exercise carried out by the Minister and the President of the Council, it has been two months since there was no protest, a sit-in, a flash mob, a spontaneous assembly promoted by both trade unions and free associations of students, teachers or parents. Well, I believe that this figure would be enough to stop the Minister and the President of the Council a little while and reflect on what went wrong, because objectively something went wrong. And I don't think you can come and tell us that in the hearings that we did, there were only concerns, as I have heard. On the other hand, a reasoned and reasoned dissent was expressed, due to the fact that the school has in DNA debate, confrontation, participation, collegiality and cultural plurality. All these elements are missing in the government proposal or are seriously questioned by it. This is an interesting first fact that I felt it was appropriate to stress. Before we started the general discussion, we discussed the question of good school. Well, in my opinion, there is a gigantic question that is before the bill on good school and that, in my opinion, the Minister and the Government should have considered very carefully before embarking on a so-called school reform measure. Basically, I wonder if the school, as it has now been handed over to us, has been able to work. The Gelmini reform is now more than five years old and the Democratic Party itself, in the election campaign, expected to put it back in deep question. But now I wonder: the Government, an expression of a majority in which the Democratic Party is a majority, why has it not done, before embarking on this reform, a reasoned examination of what are the problems of the reform Giannini? Why hasn't this been done? Why, for example, have we not dealt with appeals and even judgments against the Gelmini reform itself? I refer, for example, to the decision of the Council of State which annulled one of the measures of the Gelmini reform, the one relating to the cutting of hours in professional technical institutes (a very recent judgment). Why was this exercise not done? Why did the question not arise as to whether the blocking of teachers' contracts, which have been in force for more than five years, did not itself undermine the dignity of these workers and, then, the efficiency and effectiveness of the rational system of education? Why was this reasoning not made? Why are we not asked, for example, if the Ministry itself is not fugitive in many regulations and provisions that would serve the school? A case for all: the reorganization of competition classes, expected for more than five years, which generated the phenomenon of atypical classes, for example with redundancies. Why was this exercise not done? I believe that this is a very serious responsibility of the Minister and the Government, who wanted to neglect this analysis and came to a leg tense with a reform (which then reform is not), generating all this discontent, also because of this. The recruitments were the protagonist of the great blackmail: they cannot be recruited because they are strongly linked to the rest of the measure, in particular to the staff of autonomy. Well, this is simply not true, as can be seen from the accounts that we have been able to do, on the basis of the data of the Ministry of Education, in collaboration with one of the many associations of teachers who have professionally embarked on this exercise (I refer, in particular, to the association of broken Gessetti). In Table 1 of the technical report of the measure, the fourth line shows the number of 7,500 hired on stable posts already activated, the so-called divisions, those of the de facto staff. Well, just from the MIUR data, if this exercise is carried out, if you try to understand how many posts are given at this moment in addition to 30 June, how many contracts have been given, you get to a figure of 127,000; of course this figure must be greatly reduced, because there are the pieces, but a reduction exercise that has been done, always on MIUR data, leads to a number of 65,000, instead of the 7,500 reported in this table. I wonder, then, why did not these 48,000 units be used to heal the vulnus of supplements on September 30, data on vacant posts available, also taking into account the actual staff? Why hasn't this been done? The maxi amendment, if it has a positive effect, is precisely to have exposed this falsehood. In fact, in the maxi amendment we find the 100,000 assumptions: even a first block of 50,000 made directly in place from 1 September and a second block with legal effect from 1 September; only from 2016 they are thrown into the staff of reinforcement. It was then possible to do the hiring without disrupting the staff of autonomy. I have done a very useful exercise: to table an amendment to the measure, which will clearly never be approved, but which I quote as an academic curiosity. If we delete in the maxi amendment all paragraphs except those from 1 to 32 and from 94 to 113 we would get a new measure which only concerns recruitment and school construction - that is, the most urgent problems of school - without this at all touching the staff of autonomy. We would have a consistent bill. I will probably also do another exercise: I will present a bill in the Senate that abolishes all the paragraphs of this rule except these and that constitutes a new provision in which there are recruitment and school building (i.e. the most urgent problems of the school), but there is no staff of autonomy, there is no direct call, there is no evaluation committee, there is no principal manager: it would be a self-consistent bill because the paragraphs that in this bill speak of hiring are self-consistent. So false was the rumor that he wanted it to be understood by necessity the rule on the staff of autonomy in order to be able to hire these people! Autonomy. I would like to conclude with this last remark. I must confess that I am a fan of autonomy, but - attention - of the real one, of the one that comes from the decree of the President of the Republic n. 275 of 1999, in implementation of the delegation law of 1997, whose article 1 reads (I read briefly): "the autonomy of the educational institutions is guarantee of freedom of teaching and cultural pluralism and refers to the design and implementation of actions of education, training and education aimed at the development of the human person". That's what autonomy is. Autonomy this bill has deeply betrayed it: you have confused autonomy with autarchy. You betrayed her twice: first of all, because the direct call of the principals violates the freedom of teaching and cultural pluralism itself; in the first version of the bill there was even the plan of the educational offer in charge only of school leaders. Look even at the idea of the Government (this fortunately partially corrected in the House, but still insufficient to be able not to consider the autonomy really betrayed). When it comes to design, implementation, it is clear that we are referring to a collegiate activity. The design and implementation of a training offer inherently presupposes a collegiate activity, because it must be reflected in this planning precisely that cultural pluralism mentioned in Decree No 275 of 1999. Not only that; there is a second aspect in which you betrayed this autonomy. Also in the decree just quoted it is said that the activity is aimed at the development of the human person, with interventions adapted to the different contexts, to the demand of the families, to the specific characteristics of the subjects involved. You have objected that to carry out this task it takes a teacher who has a curriculum vitae that is suitable for the autonomy of the school. Beware that the freedom of teaching and the effective realization of that work of social elevator that is the school basically plans to operate at the level of the individual boy; you can not find a teacher who has a curriculum suitable for the student Mario Rossi of the 2nd B of the middle school of the Zen of Palermo. It is clear that the reasoning must be exactly reversed: it is the teacher, selected precisely for his teaching and research ability, who has to adapt himself precisely to the student Mario Rossi, and not the opposite. It's a completely overturned vision. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] The teacher, selected with those characteristics, permeates and adapts to the contingent situation that derives from the socio-economic context. I would like to conclude, Madam President, by simply saying that even in the unfortunate hypothesis that this whole plant should go into operation, this does not end here: there will be many constitutional appeals that will break, they will slaughter this law, among other things by putting a strain on the school system. There will be appeals from those persons who are affected by the European judgment who, having more than thirty-six months of service, will not be included in this plan.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u90	You have to finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u91	BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). Above all, not all teachers who enter school in September and find themselves deeply mortified by this bill will stop here. This is not over, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from Senators Barozzino, De Pin, Molinari and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u92	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u93	Madam President, first of all I congratulate the Government on this yet another masterpiece of mess. It is also unpleasant to be here to say this part, which has a very hollow meaning: we are here almost at 8 p.m. in a virtually deserted Chamber, to play the part of those who have to pretend that we will come to the end of this general debate and then to consider and possibly adopt amendments that should improve a law on which we already know that the Government will put trust, cutting off any possibility of change. Here, then, President, comes to mind an image that the President of the Council of Ministers has given us in the past months (Senator Candiani shows a printed page depicting the President of the Council Renzi). It was on May 14 when he appeared on television, in shirt sleeves, with his fingers raised, in front of a blackboard: the President of the Council of Ministers gave lectures to the country on good school, describing what his new reform would be, with emphasis, putting in even so much participation, and trying with this, for the umpteenth time, to deceive that his reforms, perhaps putting in front of us words like "good," lead the country towards a right direction and a better future. If, as someone said, experience is a teacher of life, stupid people learn in another experience, in another life. What is happening in these days and hours is nothing but a precedent, the prologue of what happened in this same Parliament twelve months ago with constitutional reform. At that moment it was a question of deluding the country that was inside a Reforming Government, with a President of the Council of Ministers enlightened, who finally did justice to a policy that was no longer able to govern the country, canceling the costs of politics, closing this Senate, reforming it, giving new impetus to our bureaucratic political machine, deceiving and confusing the cost of politics with the value of democracy. The same is done today, with this deceptive reform, indeed, with what is being passed for reform, but what else is only the exasperated demonstration of a President of the Council of Ministers, who does not have a plan of renewal of the country, but has a wild desire, a wild desire to appear as a reformer, going this time to confuse the plan of the formative offer, with the cost of the school. Because today, in this House, we have not even spoken a minute about the content of the training offer, which must take up the time of our teachers and students, but we have inevitably only spoken about the assumption of precarious people. The President of the Council of Ministers has come to say that if we do not do the reform that he says, the precarious will not be hired, blackmailing people in the worst way, that is, in the need to have a certain future and a stable job on which to rely, which should be taken for granted in an honest country, which honestly treats its teachers, that does not make the school a pool of votes and in which we do not show up in front of the cameras by apeping a school, which is the opposite of what it should be. Renzi's image in front of a blackboard, with the chalks in hand, represents an image contrary to what he himself claims should be the school, with the electronic boards, the most advanced computer systems and the new technologies made available to the school itself. Instead, when he's interested, the stereotype comes in and pulls out the chalk board. These are the paradoxes that we are facing here today with a reform whose examination has not been completed in the Commission and which is being brought to the House to be put to the vote of confidence. The same was true twelve months ago, even if in a different form, with constitutional reform: first the illusion to the country and finally the electoral blackmail, so either you do what he says, or the majority approves or you go home. Colleagues, take the courage of your actions and say no to this pseudo-reform, which will not give impetus to our young people and will not give certainty to the teachers, but will simply give the illusion to the country to start on the path of a reform, which will not be a true reform, but yet another mockery. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Bignami, De Pin and Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u94	Senator Dalla Zuanna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u95	Madam President, in order to understand the need for the law that we are about to discuss, we must start with the problems of Italian school, which can be summed up in two words: much inequality and the transmission of skills that are not appropriate to the needs of young people. The Italian school has so far failed in its mission to implement the third paragraph of Article 34 of the Constitution, according to which capable and deserving, even if without means, have the right to reach the highest degrees of the studies. In Italy, among those born in the seventies, for those who had both graduate parents, the probability of graduating was six times higher than those who had both parents with the only elementary license. Gramsci bitterly said that the only way to overcome class differences in school was to put all the children together in college when they were ten years old. There are also many other inequalities, as evidenced by the contested data INVALSI, whose results differ greatly between young children of Italians and foreigners, even if they were born in Italy, with foreigners in a stable rearguard position. There are also great differences between schools of the same order, located in the same city. Finally, the territorial differences are enormous, not only between North and South, but also between provinces and cities of the same Region. With regard to the transfer of skills, it strikes first and foremost the great mismatch between school and the world of work. Too many students, often poorly oriented, undertake school careers, even challenging ones, which give them few cards to play in the world of work. At the same time, many entrepreneurs complain that they do not find the necessary skills in young aspiring workers. In addition, in international comparative studies on learning levels, Italian students are on average misplaced, even if recently signs of improvement are seen. These serious problems prevent the Italian school from being the engine of modernity and a social elevator and they overshadow some positive characteristics, also these highlighted by the data, that is the strong capacity for integration, also due to the still prevalent interclassism, especially in the primary and lower secondary school, and the great commitment put in place by the teachers, with the collaboration of many families. This bill intervenes only partially on the contents of the teachings, but profoundly changes the organization of the Italian school, precisely with the dual objective of combating inequalities and giving students the right skills. In this measure inequalities are fought by fulfilling autonomy. This is done by completing the framework already envisaged by the Berlinguer Act of 1996, outlining a process of five phases: the Institute POF, the staff of autonomy, the choice and confirmation of the teaching staff, the prize for merit to the most problematic teachers and schools and the evaluation of managers on the objectives achieved. It is an organic design that could certainly be better refined, but that has the merit of marking a clear path, dictating rules, putting resources, defining competences. There is also a transparent path, with publication on the website of the school and on the portal of the Ministry of all the acts produced. Incidentally, this publication will have to be carefully edited to allow all stakeholders also to compare between different institutions, as already happens in other contexts, for example in the United Kingdom. In the coming years the whole process will be able and will have to be refined and the current text already foresees the revision in three years of the mechanism of evaluation of the merit of the teachers. This process, very innovative for the Italian school, will allow to adapt every single school to the educational needs of the territory where it operates. Just to give an example, it will allow to include in the teaching staff professors specializing in teaching to foreigners if there is a strong prevalence of young people just arrived from abroad in the territory. The most controversial point is the possibility for the manager not to confirm the teacher after a three-year period, even if the eventual confirmation is conditional on the inconsistency with the POF. In this regard, the attack on the autonomy of teaching has been shouted, but in reality in today's school there is no real autonomy, because true autonomy is not unlimited freedom, but also direct assumption of responsibility. In other words, if he were truly autonomous, each teacher should respond directly to his work, with positive consequences for him in case of success and negative in case of failure. As dean of faculty for me it was frustrating not to be able to intervene even in the presence of obvious inadequacy of some teacher to carry out a task of teaching: I could only gather complaints and do lectures. Good or bad teachers continued to stay in their place on the same salary and continue to do the same things. This bill, making confirmation conditional on consistency with the POF introduces a strong push to personal commitment, while not introducing, as is right, the possibility of dismissal. Moreover the manager will not be able to choose friendly teachers, to the detriment of teachers more suitable for the realization of the POF, because his choices will be in the eyes of everyone, they will have to be justified by public acts and also he will be evaluated by the ministerial inspectors on the realization of the POF and not only, according to the new - very detailed - paragraph 92. A brief mention of how much this bill makes to improve the transmission of skills, reducing the gap between school and the world of work, between school and territory: it provides internship for all students of the upper secondary (400 hours in technical and professional institutes and 200 hours in high schools), financing in an appropriate way the organization of such activity; it previews and finances the afternoon opening of the schools of the territory; it provides, always with adequate financing, the territorial laboratories for the employability, to be activated together with the various territorial authorities; it previews, finally, that the POF is constructed and promotes the necessary relations with the local authorities and with the various institutional, cultural, social and economic realities operating in the territory. Turning around Veneto and Italy as a professor and senator, I had the opportunity to see fantastic schools, full of good teachers and imaginative and committed executives. However, I also met grey schools, teachers who are unable to passionate students, difficult and resourceless schools to deal with their specific, great problems. The organisational mechanisms provided for by this bill and the resources envisaged will introduce a new dynamism, making a new path towards a real and concrete autonomy. It is a measure that will have to be carefully monitored, observing how individual institutions make use of their autonomy, especially in the delicate evaluation process, because grey schools must be filled with colors becoming a place where the talents of each young person, five or one, are really profitable. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u98	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, we are here, in an empty Chamber, talking about a decisive measure for the future of our nation, if it is true that Germany's economic success has its roots in the success of the educational system. And we are doing so in a situation in which trust has already been put to shame. Because that's the way it is. It has already been done, said, confirmed and admitted in substance. But we are doing this with a timetable of work which provides that today there is no closing time for the sitting and that tomorrow, however, we do what counts, namely the vote. I say that today we, Parliament, are degraded and humiliated to debate in an empty Chamber, where perhaps there will be one representative out of 20 of the other parties, while we are here in good representation out of respect for the institutions. We can continue to make speeches until midnight, of which my colleagues in the majority, who are at dinner, do not care. And tomorrow morning, rest, they'll come and ask us: did you have fun last night? All right, now we're gonna play. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi, what is your point of order? ENDRIZZI (M5S). I ask you, as President, whether this is acceptable and whether it is not correct and proper to suspend the sitting now and resume it tomorrow in the presence of the absentees. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u99	Senator Endrizzi, the schedule of proceedings, as you know, has been voted by the Assembly and respects it is the responsibility of all the senators, those of your Group, who are present in an average quota, as well as those of the other groups... Montevecchi (M5S). We did not vote for it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. ...so the point of order is not well founded. ENDRIZZI (M5S). The call is to its responsibility and respect for the institutions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You asked me a question and I would like to answer that, if you consider the circumstances, the President's responsibility is to respect the resolution of the House on the timetable. ENDRIZZI (M5S). But we are the majority right now.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u102	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, on a point of order and on a point of order. In view of the progress of the work, of this speech just made by Mr Endrizzi and of this scene which is far from commendable in relation to the subject, I call for the early closure of the debate under the terms of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and the Senators De Pin and Mussini]] You're from M5S and LN-AUT. It has to be voted! It has to be voted!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u103	The Presidency will now examine the rule of the Rules of Procedure relating to this case, for the simple reason that the provision you referred to does not apply in the case of quotas. [[Protests from M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] So, I want to read the provision to quote it more accurately and be able to provide a more informed answer. As I recalled, paragraph 3 of Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure states: If the general discussion has not been limited in time or the limits have been exceeded, eight Senators may propose an early termination of the discussion itself. Since we are in general discussion and with the quota, the request for closure of the debate cannot be accepted. So I wanted to quote the norm to you because you were calm and quiet and so you had an account of the provision, as I think it is right that it is when the President pronounces himself.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u106	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, taking up Rule 99 (3) of the Rules of Procedure which you have just mentioned, let me say to you that in this particular case you cannot allow - and I ask you to report it in the Stenographic Report - that no more than 40 senators should be present at 8.15 p.m. on such an important bill. In these circumstances, you have now read a Rule of the Rules of Procedure, but you also need common sense and interpretation. There is no such thing right now, because there are no more than 40 senators present in the Chamber, of which 20 of the 5 Star Movement, seven, eight or ten of the North League, seven of the Mixed-SEL Group, one of Forza Italia and another seven or eight of the PD. If, according to your conscience, these are conditions in which to carry out the work, regardless of any rule that you may read and to which you may cling, I believe that this is absolutely of common sense, then the evaluation remains to you. We will be here until the closing of the proceedings, but I would like to keep to the record that 40 senators are present at 8.15 p.m. I'm saying that for you, Madam President. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u107	I believe that the duty of the Presidency is to implement the resolution of this House. As you know, the Rules of Procedure do not stipulate that when there is a debate and there is no time for a vote there is a quorum check. It is the responsibility and also the assessment of each person: if the senators of his Group consider that under these conditions it is not appropriate to intervene, they may also give up, otherwise the general discussion will continue. SANTANGELO (M5S). What are you saying? Do you invite us not to intervene? PRESIDENT. Be quiet and respectful in tone and manner. SANTANGELO (M5S). Are you saying not to intervene? It's up to us, we're here! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I am saying that, since you do not believe that these conditions are worthy, you may not even intervene. Let us continue the general discussion. He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so. SANTANGELO (M5S). Don't you dare! Will you tell us to leave? Don't let it happen. But where does it come from? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please respect the Presidency. SANTANGELO (M5S). You respect us too! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I respect that. You considered it unworthy to intervene under these conditions and I replied as it was right for you to respond. [[Protests of the M5S Group.]] MORONESE (M5S). And those who are missing who are respecting? Make some calls.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u108	May I begin my speech? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can and must begin, Senator. Please proceed. Madam President, I hadn't started yet. I am amazed that every time there is such an important reform it is as if the tape rewinds: we are always in the same condition and we always talk about the same thing. I have tried many times in all humility, as I always do, to say that with all these reforms, starting from the constitutional ones, to this one on the school and those on the job, there is the democracy of this country at stake. [[Applause from the M5S, Misto-ILC and Misto-MovX Groups.]] If you pay attention - as you certainly do - you will notice that the direction is always the same: you want to remove democracy, dignity and representation. That's what we're talking about. There is no point in trying to say that they do not listen. The last three governments, not to mention the others, have done the same thing. I've read something these days, but what's the difference? I'll read you some statements from some ministers over the last five years. There were those who said that safety at work was a luxury that we could no longer afford. Excuse me, but where do you go with jobs act? Isn't that the same thing? The same is true of the school: a minister, a short time ago, said that culture does not eat. They have perfected the concept: Renzi only responds to certain powers, namely the Central Bank and everything else. He made a decision: either we all become aware of what is happening to us and we try to organize ourselves really, from my point of view, to defend democracy in this country - because we are talking about this, I repeat - or we are talking about fried air, this is the truth. Today Renzi has come here and I must admit that he is getting better and better in his speeches: he has told us that his generation has built its dream of Europe's unity on the fall of the Berlin Wall. And who doesn't agree? Too bad he then builds cages where he imprisons workers, teachers, students and so on. We are talking about this: but here, if we continue to get angry with each other, I think we will not solve much. In conclusion, we must really organize ourselves in order to really protect those people who outside expect us, oppositions and those who have a shred of dignity, who defend fundamental rights, who are democracy, rights and dignity of normal people, who voted for us to come here to represent all of this, to do nothing else. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u109	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u110	Madam President, this morning I gave the President of the Senate an appeal signed by owls notoriously opposed to this Executive, called Salvatore Settis, Luciano Canfora, Lorenza Carlassare, Umberto Curi, even Francesco Guccini, Ferdinando Imposimato, Gianni Vattimo, Dario Vergassola, Benedetto Vertecchi and so on, with many and many others. They, from the world of academy, school and what was once the so-called intelligence, noble and refined, have tried in every way to bring a desperate cry to this House, where yet another act of barbarity against democratic institutions is being consumed. But you don't care. I have also heard Gramsci quoted: well, it is a name that must be pronounced with great respect, like many others. I would also have liked to hear Fr Lorenzo Milani mention it or Freire's pedagogy, but these are perhaps too much, too important for the human quality that this House expresses. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , populated by very few teachers and many leguleans. When I explained the question, I pointed out one of the critical aspects of this good school, which, with the economies of scale it will produce, will strengthen schools already strong and will penalise those already weak. I would then like to be helped to understand - and not rhetorically - if, according to the INVALSI tests of 2014, the last of which have the results - tests that you perennially consider able to provide useful indicators to understand the state of health of the Italian public school - you can verify, as we all verify, that in Italy there continues to be a very serious southern issue, also and above all related to the schools of the South. As has been shown, the children and students of the southern schools obtain in the very first years of schooling results equal or even higher than those of the schools of the Centre-North, and then little by little see their results decrease. Rather than investing massively, as should be in a democratic and inclusive perspective, to try to build - I quote the President of the Council - "a solid and supportive civil society, capable of giving to those who have less," you go and take away from those who already have little today. I come from the southern school, where sponsors and private contributions will not be able to enjoy [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We don't have any business here. The enterprises have almost all vanished. Almost all my former students are above all, when they were deserving and loved to study, to work abroad, because of an extraordinarily rigid labour market that rewards flattery, servility and not merit or competence. Now, rather than encouraging paths of equalization, flanking and completion, you are further strengthening those who to some extent are already sufficient, not to say satisfactory, and as a result you are penalising those who are weaker. The same speech I have heard as rectors of universities which, according to the unfortunate decisions of the political world, have seen the collapse of interventions that had to be fair. I wonder, then, but if Article 3 of our Constitution wants us all to be equal because you have to condemn us simply because you are southern to the hell of emigration? Why not try to do something more than quote Gramsci that emigration, though familiar, has suffered? Why don't you try to live in the real classrooms, in the schools more "sgarrupate"? The novel "I hope that I'll be able to pull it off a while ago was successful and from it was also taken a movie. Why do you not check what it means to be a school today in certain contexts? Only then and after that experience will I allow you to say something about school. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u113	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to speak on the order of business. I believe that Senator Morra has brought new elements to the debate and added words that have not so far been considered and had not emerged in this clarity. In view of this, Mr President, I believe that the Senate must, before it can continue with this legal provision, seek the opinion of the National Council for Economic Affairs and Labour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u114	It is a matter of suspensive nature and cannot be requested for a general discussion that has been initiated, but before we begin the debate. If you like, I'll read you the norm. The provisions of Article 93, i.e. those on suspensive matters, shall apply.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u115	Madam President, Rule 93 applies. In the specific case: However, the President may also accept them in the course of the debate if the presentation is justified by new elements which emerged after the start of the debate. If you believe that there are no elements, you take responsibility for them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u116	The President does not think that he will use this option. I take responsibility for assessing that there have been no grounds for this decision in the course of the general discussion. SANTANGELO (M5S). And there are two responsibilities. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Mattesini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u117	Madam President, I would like to start by recalling what is contained in paragraph 1 of Article 1 of this law where it is stated that the objective is to affirm the central role of the school by raising levels of education and skills, respecting the times and styles of learning and still countering social, cultural and territorial inequalities by preventing and recovering school leaving and school leaving, as well as ensuring equal opportunities. The idea and proposal of a school which develops its function and organisation by promoting a fundamental factor such as social inclusion is also very clear in the following article, which therefore becomes a fundamental element for the construction of a true citizenship. This law introduces, among others, a novelty that I think is really relevant because it proposes an educational path and, therefore, the right to education starting from the birth of every child and child. Finally, alongside the school system we know of as a primary and secondary school, we introduce a path that is so far unknown, that is, the general system that is called 0-6. (At 8.30 p.m.) (Following MATTESINI). Nests and mothers are no longer at individual demand, but there is full recognition in the national educational system in a path of educational continuity. Look, it's an extraordinary fact. I tell those who listen to us from home, to children and girls who do not have access to these services today. I tell the many women and families who don't have access to it. The 0-6 for this country is an extraordinary fact, because since the 80s there have been multiple attempts at recognition and to date, with this law, it gives concreteness to all this. It is therefore the duty of the State to recognize the right of children and children and families to have an adequate supply of nests and nursery schools throughout the national territory, facing with chest and decisive a great inequality today existing in Italy. In fact, little more than 13 percent are entitled to the frequency of the nest and, among other things, with a terrible territorial unevenness: from 2 percent of Calabria up to 30 percent of Tuscany and Emilia. The Save the Children organization published last year a survey of child poverty and highlighted how the heaviest is educational poverty: something that goes beyond school, of course. However, it must be remembered that educational poverty must be understood as the deprivation of children and adolescents of the possibility of learning, experimenting and flourishing freely skills, talents and aspirations. All the research has been demonstrating and testifying for years how the educational and relational offer is decisive in order to bring out potentialities. And it is still widely documented how the girls and children who have been able to access the nests and the nursery schools have a better school and work path and, therefore, a happier life, of greater realization of their desires. Entering 0-6 in the national educational path means giving concrete answers, activating a network of essential services, that network that from birth provides services and activities that improve knowledge and skills. In fact, it is good to remember that today's disadvantages are mainly translated into real inequalities tomorrow. On the other hand, with the law under consideration, and also with this important part, we promote and create the conditions for an educational system that promotes equal opportunities for education, education, relationship and play. I remember that the Zancan Foundation presented at the beginning of the year a study that highlights how child poverty, an issue that we should address more, is reduced by 70% where the presence of services is strong. And we with this law are going to structure the network of early childhood services. Therefore, having in a law the possibility to define the essential levels of the performance of the school for childhood within the system 0-6 is really something extraordinary. But I want to say that the mother lines, and therefore the 0-6 service, are first of all an educational service for children, and indirectly also perform an extraordinary function of support to families, parenthood, reconciliation between times of life and working times. And this is essential in a country where the birth rate is now lower than the mortality rate, where women are forced to choose not to have children or to resign in a massive way in the first year of life of children precisely because of the absence of services, and sometimes of the family network. This, therefore, is a fundamental point because 0-6 offers a great potential for educational service, promoting inclusion, because it offers children the opportunity to grow up according to equal opportunities and possibilities. But I am also talking about the school of inclusion with reference to the important part concerning pupils with disabilities, through the recognition of different forms of communication, also identifying here the essential levels of educational, health and social performance, and providing indicators for self-assessment and evaluation of school inclusion, as well as the revision of the procedures and acts relating to certification. Another important aspect is the provision of initial and in-service training for school managers and teachers on pedagogical and organisational aspects of school integration, as well as compulsory training for all school technical and administrative staff, with reference to basic assistance and organisational aspects. In fact, the integration of disabled students is not only the task of support teachers, but also of the educating community. And this is a fundamental fact, because it transforms and places Italy, which on this point already has a history to which many European countries refer and not only, a step forward. Equally important is the provision for the guarantee of home education for pupils under Law No 104 of 1992. So, it really is a path of great integration. I would like to stress another aspect which, in my opinion, concerns the inclusion and promotion of equal opportunities. I am referring to the importance of creating an effective and useful relationship between school and the world of work. It is a very important choice that, through the definition of the modalities related to orientation, but also to the alternation of school-work, introduces an element of great value and great change. To anticipate for the high school two hundred hours in three years and four hundred hours for the technical and professional institutes means to have an important attention, especially if we think that the alternation can be carried out also abroad. This is another very important choice, which strengthens the relationship between school and territory, between school and work, which really surpasses the fracture that all too often stands between the school and the work path. Equally important is the promotion of laboratory teaching. Many protests were made when, with the so-called Gelmini law, laboratory hours were cut. Here we reproduce the laboratory teaching, but in a new way, because it is a didactic activity to be promoted within schools, and especially outside, through the establishment of professional poles, and therefore, in collaboration with the chambers of commerce rather than with public bodies, to achieve extraordinary objectives such as the orientation of teaching and training in the strategic sectors of Made in Italy. Therefore, the school really innovates through school autonomy and becomes a fundamental point of a different relationship with the territory, bringing wealth to the territory itself. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u118	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the basis of the measure we are debating today, and on which the Government, in a gravely incorrect way, has decided to put trust, is the belief that the school should be run as a private company. This basic philosophy, which has already been applied with results which are to say the least questionable in other public services, seems completely inconsistent in the context of education. The reason is easily intuitable: the educational relationship cannot be reduced to a commercial relationship; schools are not supermarkets and students are not customers. With regard to them, teachers are obliged to be very understanding, going to meet the thousand difficulties of the insecure and dismayed young people in our terrible world, but also much more severe knowing how to give 4 or 3 if this is necessary. All this - I repeat - has nothing to do with the business model. The way in which we try to implement this basic philosophy is even more absurd. The aim is to create a leading figure capable of dictating the teaching guidelines and even personally hiring teachers. I want to be clear about that. I think that the school manager, the principal (to use a noble and ancient term) has a fundamental role and deserving of being valued also from an economic point of view. The task of a good principal is in fact very difficult. It is enough to accompany our children to school to understand the extent of problems faced by those who are in charge of an organism where, every morning, thousands of people with very different expectations and roles converge. In order to carry out this function it is necessary to have, in addition to great specific and legal and pedagogical competences, also a great balance, a great authority, a great cultural prestige, a great humanity. These are rare qualities, but which, once again, have nothing to do with the business world. At the cost of looking old-fashioned or recreating situations from the book "Cuore" I continue to imagine the principal as a father, perhaps severe, and not as a manager of a company or a leader; as the first among educators, and not as a corporal of a day. In presenting the reform to the press, there was a great deal of emphasis on the need to evaluate individual schools and teachers. I think the emphasis on this issue is very suspicious. It has become customary in Italy to hide the real intention: to dismantle the public system behind the fictional will to amend the defects, appropriately emphasized. I'm afraid something like this is happening right now. I do not mean - let it be clear - to defend those who do not do their duty; they are found in the world of school as well as in all other categories. In order to identify and, if necessary, remove these elements, however, the ordinary means are sufficient, those that already exist and that are provided for in the legislation. What good is it to create bureaucracy or, worse still, to subject teachers to humiliating judgments that could compromise the same freedom of teaching, when there is the category of inspectors? The latter, as their name says, have the task of controlling; they alone, as competent in the various disciplines, have the burden of evaluating the specific contents transmitted by the individual teachers. To conclude, I would like to say two things about the issue of hiring precarious persons. In this field too, the Government has made itself an unacceptable demagogy, playing with the lives and expectations of thousands of workers. Of course, the problem of recruiting teachers is not born now. Too many times, in recent decades, the way in which they are qualified and admitted to the role has changed. It seems that Italy has taken delight in the humiliation of its teachers, performing them in an extreme game of the three cards: ordinary competition, extraordinary competition, competition for titles, introduction ope laws, SIS, training school, leaving everything to unpredictability and uncertainty. No confidence that what was promised... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I ask you for 30 more seconds, Mr President. Now there's the final cherry. I think it is necessary to say something very simple. Everyone realizes that the time has come for certain and safe rules to be established, different of course from the direct call of the principal. To do so, however, it is necessary to stabilize those who for 20 years have been constantly mocked by regulatory uncertainty and continuous changes in rules. It is unqualifiable to present as a kind concession or a gift what is an act due to people who already work and without whose contribution most Italian schools would not reopen their doors next September. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Bocchino and Pepe.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u120	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u121	Mr President, not later than a week ago, Prime Minister Renzi, with emphatic tones, said that, if the bill already approved by the House goes into port also to the Senate, the Italian school has more resources, more staff and is stronger. The intention of overcoming even the dialectical passage was obvious. That is why we are here this evening. It should be noted that this statement and its variations have constituted, in recent months and until today, the dominant figure of a semblance of debate imposed by the Government in the talk shows, in the texts of the journalistic agencies and in the newspapers, and never transformed into serious dialogue, engaging, even passionate [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] , that even a noble matter, such as that represented by public education, requires and needs for the good of the country. The tones of the claim and of the announcement prevailed over the merit of the reform; the tones of servo commendation we still read today in the headlines, when we insist on placing the emphasis on the 100,000 assumptions that this Government has promised to carry out. We're on the paradox. If even the press makes megaphones of the positions of the Executive, in a free country, it means that democracy runs some risk. This is proof of the blatantly authoritarian way that the Government has used to impose on the Senate to discuss the reform of the education and training system directly in the House, without conscious and invigorating passages in the Commission and without the possibility of modifying a complex matter, if it is true, as it is true, that 360 amendments have been tabled by the Senators of the Democratic Party. The draft law required a detailed examination, cum grano salt, without prejudice and in accordance with the custom of the Permanent Commission and Parliament, with which it was intended to gross out, supplement, make compatible and collect, as far as possible, without prejudice to any parties involved. This complex and delicate measure, therefore, does not bring the chrysms of free and frank discussion, as the Government wanted. The role of the 7th Commission is therefore mortified. The majority have plundered, pretended to listen and preferred the practice of delay through a comic series of referrals and disconcerting of the Commission, so as to generate that embarrassment that - alas - we have all lived with considerable tension. Finally, there was a large amendment tabled by the majority rapporteurs: there was no trace of it. And we are here tonight to lick our wounds, to regret what this bill would have been and is not: an opportunity for democratic growth for the Italian school and for all citizens. More powers to the principals and more flexibility in the choice of teachers are only two of the many controversial topics that have attracted the attention of the public and the social partners. School managers are already burdened with heavy tasks today; supervision of the recruitment of teachers should take place without arbitrary exercise of duties by the head of school. There will be many disputes, beginning with the excluded, from those teachers who will not enter the recruitment. The Government will also ensure that the eligible candidates of the 2012 competition are included in the roles. It will be crushed by the jaws of the vote of confidence, which this Government is about to ask for, including a sub-amendment which I had prepared and presented to the attention of the Commission, concerning the establishment of the high school of cultural heritage. A country that wishes to celebrate every day the beauty and treasure its enormous cultural heritage and its cultural fields, in order to make it an additional opportunity for knowledge and identity, as well as an opportunity for employment and growth, cannot afford, Mr President, not to pay attention to the need to train, from high school, professional skills in this field. Patience, we'll wait for better times. For the good of Italy, we will collect more refined sensibilities, more prone to the valorization of national vocations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u122	Mr President, we are faced with a path that cannot be said to be characterized by content and merit - both are absent - but, on the one hand, by a great incompetence and an equal unawareness and, on the other hand, by a method that is a scam. It's a scam from the beginning to the end; a scam on the figures that would be Fatima's fourth secret; a scam on the story of how this whole journey took place. I don't know which movie Senator Marcucci has ever seen, which speaks of a rich and participated confrontation, when everywhere, throughout the Peninsula, the voices of a denied confrontation resonate. The senator talks about years of school marginality, years of neglect, thinking that the magnificent progressive fortunes are now opening. I would like to ask not Senator Marcucci, but the owner of Kedrion what his company would have done with a cut in some years of 10 billion euros. I would like to know what marginality and carelessness you could see. Senator Marcucci speaks of Italy's priorities; he speaks of a long listening, deaf; he speaks of shared changes; he speaks of 2,150 amendments, when, in reality, with a game of three cards, we have seen ourselves presented to the Commission a fake amendment by the rapporteurs, and then we have to show ourselves, two weeks later, a new amendment that rewrites exactly the original text. You've been teasing us for a whole month, Senator Marcucci, and now you're proposing to us the text that came out of the House, after auditions were held, after having entertained us with constant convocations and convicts, in a ridiculous carousel that the school doesn't deserve. Talk about the strengthening of school leaders and in the bill there is the scam, the sanatoria: you will choose as school leaders people who have been taken by rankings that justice has declared invalid, and you will put them to lead schools. Scam! As a scam the criteria of hiring: you make them fall from above, and what you don't say is, that despite what the law asked you - it's not only your fault, but it's your fault not to admit it and not recognize it - in twenty-five years a competition was made in 1999 and then another was banned in 2012 under the Ministry of Profumo. This is for the benefit of who, Senator Dalla Zuanna? To the advantage of the university, which has sucked the money of the precarious, to which the possibility of participating in a contest has been removed. The only competition in twenty-five years was that of 1999, and you have to take responsibility because the precarious are not guilty of precariousness. The State that prevented him from participating in a clean and honest selection is guilty. Now you let him fall from above and talk about sanatoria. But with what courage do you speak of sanatories? You talk about the premiality of teachers, but you don't care because, at the very moment when you set limits in that ridiculous paragraph on the evaluation of merit, there are no criteria. The only one is at point c), where we talk about the responsibilities assumed in the organizational and didactic coordination and in the training of staff. The 200 million you put, that is, are those 240 million that you took away from the principal's collaborators in the law of stability. That's the truth. You need in this law to close a game, to close accounts, because in the last law of stability you have removed short supplements and here you write that the school manager will assign short supplements. Why? Because you took them out there. And how will you assign these supplements? With the same figures and the same salary, making extra hours, because you need this. Scams, one after the other, as incompetence and unawareness, a row of twists written by people who do not even know how the school works: first of all, the idea that in the school there may be a three-year plan and, fortunately, thanks to amendments approved to the House, there is the idea that perhaps, from year to year, every school institution changes in the number of students. Swindling is the reduction in the number of students per class, and Minister Morando explained it in the Commission: it reduces them to zero, which means that they are reduced to one class and increased to another. Scams one after the other. The evaluation of school managers is done with self-assessment. It is said that the school manager has to evaluate the teacher because he has to get his employees, but he is self-evaluated. Not to mention, then, the national evaluation system, which is managed by three people, one of whom is the President of the INVALSI appointed by the Minister, the other is the President of the INDIRE appointed by the Minister and the third is a technical manager chosen by the Minister. Where is your autonomy? The school manager is chosen in a political chain. You talk about autonomy and you don't even know what it is. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Molinari]] It is a matter of incompetence and unawareness. And the most grotesque paradox is that the school undergoes the calitroneria of those who are not even able to give that minimum of knowledge such as to build a picture. I was there: I was in the school when the Moratti was there; I was there when the Gelmini was there and when certain climbers of politics took off their clothes and struggled on the stages insulting the Gelmini law. I was there, and here I see, with great regret, unfortunately from within, the ignorance that takes revenge on knowledge, the servility that takes revenge on freedom, the conformism that takes revenge on the critical spirit. ( [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Molinari]] Everyone here is judges, all professors, and everyone says that Italian school sucks. No, gentlemen, Italian school doesn't suck. If you, in your business, in your business, in your personal and professional interests, had at once everything the school has undergone, I would like to see how you would have managed to keep up your activities. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group]] Senator Tonini pontificated this morning, spoke of bridges, said he prefers to build bridges and that the future of democracy passes through the light of knowledge. It's all talk, as talk are all those contained in the ridiculous article 2 of the bill - in your delusional maxi amendment has become I don't know which paragraph - in which the school is asked to provide for an infinite number of tasks, all at no cost. In that article it was repeated several times, but it was not enough, and Deputy Minister Morando asked that the clause of invariance be implemented. We do not yet have the technical report and there is no money: that is the reality. You're realizing a sleazy, ridiculous school vision. Talk about the evaluation of teachers, but as politicians you have already received your evaluation. Mr Boschi, who will come to the House tomorrow morning to ask for trust, had his assessment as a politician in his city and lost. This is the assessment that you have had and that you deserve. My sadness comes from the fact that this is definitely the vision that was given to you by Confindustria (I read the documents of the TreeLLle seminar). But you have managed to take only the worst things, even from that vision, and you have not been able to grasp the general vision. Industrialists know very well that if you don't invest resources, you can't do anything. Senator Dalla Zuanna told us about equality and a school that will reward the most tragic and dramatic situations. But with what money, Senator Dalla Zuanna, and with what investments? The figure destined to cover all that is asked of the school is 126 million euros and Deputy Minister Morando, when asked the reason for this low investment, explained that however there is no problem, because the compulsory voluntary contribution of the families is hugely higher and, therefore, they will think about it. So the 5 per thousand will come back and, in essence, the principals will be faced with the simple speech: it's your business! If you can do school, fine. If you can't, it's your business. [[Applause from the SenatorsBignami, De Petris and Molinari]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u123	She's registered to speak Senator Idem. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u124	Mr President, it will be because I have heard little of the students who would actually be the first interested in this law... [[Comments of Senators Bignami and Mussini.]] I listened calmly and without disturbing. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It will also be because of professional deformation, because in sport we always start from the goal, that I would like to start from what animated my reflections during the debate on school, started last year in September. And I'd like to remind everyone here. So, putting all my empathy into play, I wondered what a good school should be for the kids and it came to mind a school that every day gives the kids a context in which they are welcomed as unique and special people, to whom we want to give the best possible future. I would have in mind for them an empathetic and respectful, competent and stimulating environment that can encourage, motivate, capture and guide them for what they are: not small adults or incomplete adults, who resent teachers and the whole world, but citizens of the world, who must grow and mature, one step at a time, each according to his own time. I would like a tailor-made opportunity for each of them. I would like for them the opportunity to love the study: when they are able to love the study, we will have solved most of the school's problems. It's up to adults to convince them, and teachers too. It's their turn to explain well, passionately and drag. And it is not enough to give a list of ingredients: we have to explain the art of cooking. It is no longer enough to fill small heads of knowledge, but it is necessary to focus on skills such as recognizing structures and systems, or to link information from different areas. In an increasingly globalized world it is necessary to be able to project beyond the borders of your country. And to counter an increasingly competitive, unequal and exclusive world, values such as solidarity, tolerance, cooperation and respect for people and the rules must be taught. We must give the children the skills they need for the professions of the future, taking into account the fact that those, who will start their journey this year, will in 20 years' time be doing jobs that do not exist today. That of the school, therefore, is a challenge in the future; a future that will require requirements that our school today - and I would say that we all agree - largely does not provide and that good school aims to build. In our country, the pupils who remedy at least one rejection in their school career are more than 17 out of a hundred, a figure in significant growth compared to ten years ago, which, moreover, rises to more than 25 percent among pupils coming from socio-economic and cultural deprived contexts, and this makes us understand how good school also depends on other reforms. In the OECD's view, rejection does not benefit students or school systems as a whole, as it is only a very expensive way of dealing with failure because, by stopping pupils, the probability of leaving school increases considerably. And, in fact, it is no coincidence that even the school dispersal in our country is among the highest in Europe, with a percentage over 17%, with peaks of 25% in Sicily, Campania and Sardinia, and also in this unfortunately we are in the company of the less virtuous. The OECD always outlines the alternative: It is necessary to offer additional teaching hours to students at risk of rejection, adapting teaching to their needs so that they can catch up with their peers. In fact, here we come to the first tools that this law provides in response to the problems I have just mentioned. Through the establishment of the functional staff, the educational, organizational and design needs that the individual schools in their autonomy intend to address and that must be contained in the three-year plan of the training offer (POF). Then, within the framework of their autonomy, the schools identify activities, projects and initiatives that are intended to be carried out, both in their curricular hours and outside it, for example in the afternoon. It is the implementation of these forms of flexibility of teaching and organizational autonomy, already provided for by the decree of the President of the Republic of 1999 and which this text emphasizes again, which allows to find alternatives to the rejection of students, which in reality is the rejection of a school model too rigid to find individualized training offers; the latter, moreover, also supported by the curriculum of the student that is introduced with this norm. Returning a moment to the topic of school dispersal, I would like to mention the president of the National Association of Teachers and Teachers (ANIEF), who believes that the school dispersal is linked to double thread to the cuts to resources and organic of the school implemented in recent years and, in particular, refers to the fact that 200,000 places have been cancelled, removed 8 billion euros and dissolved 4,000 institutions following the so-called sizing, when instead the financings are closely related to the educational success. And again, it is not surprising that Italy is at the penultimate place in the European comparison, as far as resources for school education are concerned. So I wonder what's wrong if, instead of taking away resources, we add EUR 1 billion until the end of this year and EUR 3 billion to the 2016 budget. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I was saying before that school is a challenge in the future and that the future will require the youngest of today's requirements that our school does not currently provide. In this respect, I also agree that more resources must be committed in all the realities and structures invested in the education process. I am talking about construction, pay shots and the general condition of teachers, which must not be precarious but dignified and, given the importance that the Government attaches to this issue, starting from the increases put in place by this law, there is the will to repulse the resources available to those objectives if they are available. I think, however, that there is no more beautiful gift for students than to be educated by teachers who do their work by vocation and passion; these attitudes, by definition, push to put themselves into play for the good of their students, in a process of continuous updating and experimentation, and taking into account the continuous changes that the current situation imposes. Passion, vocation and humanity towards the learner, however, are unfortunately not attitudes that we can order by law. What we can instead regulate with law is the obligation to constant, widespread and cross-cutting training of all people who have an impact in some way on the education and motivation of students and, inevitably, leave a trace on their curricula. This is also why I am not at all shocked that in the future the quality of the teachers' speech will be evaluated and I do not understand at all the protests about this novelty. Just as I do not understand the fears and criticisms expressed about the new tools of apostrophated school leaders as super powers of the sheriff's principals, as if the most natural thing in the world was the presumption of dishonesty and as if the leaders had been recruited on the cow market, and not through competition. Mrs Ferrara said before that this law is not an ambush, but a proposal to improve the quality of our school. And I believe that this is the case and I have therefore proposed an amendment which provides for continuous monitoring and the report in this House. We have started with the best intentions and the outcome will be seen. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u125	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u126	Mr President, the school belongs to everyone, no one excluded, and that is why we all want to talk. School is the land where we sow the future of our nation, and we are falling. I am very surprised to hear the discourses of mystification of the majority which, on the one hand, speaks of inclusion, acceptance and equality, and, on the other, perhaps they do not realize that this does not correspond at all to the bill we are examining. We had a school that was being copied from other countries until a few decades ago. Yet, for years we have been picking it up and dismantling it, reducing it to the school of INVALSI, the voluntary contribution and the cuts that, in decades, have reached up to 10 billion, where the rate of absenteeism and abandonment is 17 percent. Mrs Ferrara is right to say that 25% of minors and 37% of young people feel detached from the institutions and that the majority do nothing. But this bill does not give any answer to all this. The answer would have been in inclusion, acceptance, equality and stimulus, which cannot come from this measure. Yet it is a bill that comes from afar. It is not of the present government and it is a design, perhaps, not even of this country. I remember JP Morgan's guidelines, which advised our country to dismantle our constitution. So this is just the much bigger piece of puzzle you've been writing for a long time. A cycle is coming to an end, and that is the most worrying thing. Every time you put your hand to reform someone wonders that the whole school world mobilizes and goes down to the square. But the only model that has been proposed since 1997 is always the same: what is said about autonomy, which then means nothing more than corporateization of the public school, where also the words in the semantic sense have been changed. The principal has become the manager. The student became the user, and this is a definition that reminds me very much of Berlusconi when he talked about the consumer voter. The assonance is heard. The educational objectives become the training offerings. And, therefore, the teacher is a person who no longer does training, but receives money to do a work that serves to create a consumer. We are absolutely at commodification, and the goal is no longer educational but is market-based. It's no use fooling ourselves. Already compared to the voluntary contribution that, as a parent, seemed to me at first a contribution to the community, I did not realize how subtle and discriminatory it was. In my neighborhood, I could give a certain amount and already in the neighborhood you could give more. So discrimination is no longer just between the schools of the North and the South, but between those of one neighborhood and those of another neighborhood. In fact, when the private enters, when the private gives the good schools CONAD, when the bank sponsors, when the industrial finance, the private is orienting, is deciding who must go ahead and who must stop [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because the sponsor will never put him in the gym where you know that there are no utilities able to come and spend for this. Therefore, the contribution will go where there is already an economic ease and will never go to affect where there is discomfort, abandonment. This is what awaits us in the future. The so-called mayor is not a mayor-man, because he is not elected by the base, as is the case in Germany, but is decided from above, as at the time of fascism, and can take advantage of the direct call, albeit mitigated by the maxi amendment. Then my colleague Mr Pagliari must excuse me, but that does harm the freedom of teaching, because clearly, through favoritism and discrimination that can come from this, there is no more freedom and therefore this is an absolutely unconstitutional act. I would like to conclude with the words of Don Milani of 1965, that Mayor Renzi said we had to overcome: It is necessary to have the courage to tell young people that they are all sovereigns, so obedience is no longer a virtue, but the most subtle of temptations, that they do not believe that they can shield themselves, either before men or before God, that they must feel each one the only responsible for everything. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u127	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u128	Mr President, Minister, Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, there are certainly many aspects of this measure to be corrected, but unfortunately the Senate has been completely deprived of the opportunity to examine them. There could be work, improvements could be made. I am convinced that the amendments tabled, starting with the 360 tabled by some Senators of the Democratic Party, certainly dealt with the interesting aspects. I certainly do not suppose I share many of them, but unfortunately it was not possible. They say yes, so the Constitution is violated twice, because the law is not made by the Chambers together, but by the Government alone; moreover, the bill does not go to the Commission and the House, but in the Commission in practice it has not passed and there is the usual vote of confidence in the House. Unfortunately there are many imperfections and, as many people have spoken saying very interesting things, I am thinking about three points, one of which is almost a secondary aspect; however, speaking of school, knowing how to use the Italian language should be important. In fact, in article 2, paragraph 3, letter a), speaks of the valorization (always with these words a little vague) of the strengthening of linguistic skills, with particular reference to Italian. But then it turns out that Italian is an insufficient language, because two lines later it is said that it is necessary to use the content language integrated learning methodology, which according to Wikipedia (which already in the name is quite international) is a synonym of linguistic immersion. I wonder, then, if you could not use our language. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami]] It is good to know English, but it is also good to know how to use our language. Two inverses later are spoken - I say this in the original pronunciation - of the production media; that is, it is stated that we must strengthen the skills in the media of production and diffusion of images and then to the letter f) we are again talking about literacy to art, techniques and media of production and diffusion of images. So, the average term is Latin: in fact, someone will definitely say: "Look at that," he says, "while it should be pronounced "midia," of course, because it is English use, but not everyone knows that the English use the word medium to remind the Latin derivation, while we also use media to the singular. But to use the word'means', which is Italian, they all understand it and there are no particular winks of eye? First, in Article 2, the second sentence of paragraph 1 is to be read. I remember that usually in schools it is taught to avoid repetitions; then, when it is really necessary, you can also repeat a word with the same root, but there are pronouns, the possibility of coordinating the various parts of the sentence so that you do not always have to repeat the same word. Well, in this period - which is also short and not very long - the following expressions appear: It is established for the whole school institution and there are two; and there are three; There are four addresses for all secondary schools and five for the same school institution. The staff of autonomy, functional to the educational, organizational and design needs of school institutions, etc., and follow two further lines. I have allowed myself to table an unnecessary amendment to the Commission, which I have naturally also tabled for the House, which proposed that all these institutions and institutions be reduced to two. I saw that in the maxi amendment - ghost, because it was presented to the Commission, but then we do not understand: even there, sub-amendments could have been presented, but it would have been useless - for the truth commendably from six the number of these has been reduced to five which, to be elegant, we could call 'alliterations'. [[Senator Mussini's comments.]] This, as far as the Italian language is concerned, which I understand, is not fundamental. Then there is another nice passage, which is paragraph 20, always of this tormented Article 2, where it is said that it is necessary to promote employability and social cohesion, help to combat the phenomenon of young people not employed and not in education and training. Very good: but then, fearing that it is not fashionable and trendy enough, there is in parenthesis - to show "I studied it" - the acronym NEET, which I imagine stands for not (engaged) in education, employment or training, but which has already been said before. What is the need for the whole translation? So let's put on the English word that makes chic, trendy, groovy, et cetera. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Fashion. SANTANGELO (M5S). It's cool. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you very much, colleagues, but I do not repeat this. [[Laughter]] Well, let's try to use our language. On the question of the principal, I am not opposed in general to those who have a strong authority, ability and management possibilities. They are for the direct election of the President of the Republic, who should not have the powers he currently has, but should add them, in my opinion, to those of the President of the Council: however, we need counterweights, for example in the American Constitution; and this person should be chosen by a public process. I am for direct election, not for the draw of the President of the Republic: we take one perhaps very good, a high office of the State or a high magistrate, and we do it President of the Republic omnipotent; to this I would be against. Well, this principal, who has enormous power, how is he chosen? With a public contest, for Christ's sake, we'd still miss it! But if he's wrong, if he's dirty, how and when does he pay? Frankly, I don't get it. This principal not only chooses who teaches in that school and who instead has to go looking for another one, but I have even read that it is he who decides, felt - his goodness - the evaluation committee, to allocate sums for the famous meritocracy. Him alone. So, since most of the principals are honest, but perhaps not all of them are completely impartial from every point of view - someone will not - and then you feel the need to say that, however, you can't name relatives and brothers, who maybe are also good at them; in short, it's okay to give responsibility, but there must be counterweights and criteria. How much news have we read, precisely in competitions for school leaders, and not only in those, of episodes not really upbuilding of envelopes opened before, copying, etc.? It happens in other competitions as well. This is unacceptable in any contest, but it is not necessarily a selection of the flower. Finally, there is a passage. Much has been said, after the passage of the bill to the House, about the so-called pro gender paragraph. They say it's all a setup because they say: The three-year plan of the training offer ensures the implementation of the principles of equal opportunities by promoting in schools of every order and grade the education of gender equality, the prevention of gender violence - and here we have a word because the Italian language speaks of sex until before the introduction of gender ideology - and of all discrimination, in order to inform and raise awareness... What is this anti-discrimination thing? Of course, we are against discrimination, but on 29 April 2013, the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office (UNAR), dealing with something that must not be dealt with because the founding law says that it must deal with discrimination for racial, religious or ethnic reasons, has officially published, with the stamp of the Presidency of the Council and therefore of the Italian Republic, the national strategy for preventing and combating discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, where the issue of discrimination is well explained. For example, it is necessary to treat the predisposition of school modules in the key of social inclusion, respectful of the new family realities formed also by homosexual parents, where there are no husband and a wife of whom a homosexual, as happens, but two dads or two moms. Then it is said that it is not true that you want to introduce gender. For Christ's sake. Then we talk about the accreditation of LGBT associations to the MIUR as a training body, the enrichment of the training offer with the preparation of bibliographies on LGBT themes. The gender is there; it is clear written; just put together two official documents of the Italian Republic, one is the text of the government bill and the other is the document of the UNAR. Therefore, those who vote on this package - perhaps someone is also happy - vote on it entirely without being able to change anything, including gender indoctrination in schools in violation of Article 30 of the Constitution and the Charter of Human Rights that give parents the right and duty to choose education for their children and that ensure that it is not imposed by gentlemen who have the only qualification to belong to LGBT organisations. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Mussini and Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u129	Senator Gotor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u130	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, given the time and conditions of this House, I would ask you to hand over the text of my speech so that it is annexed to the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u131	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u132	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are examining has given rise to enormous controversy in the country. I didn't share all these arguments. The school desperately needs a jolt, a renewal, a strengthening. The measure approved by the House is an acceptable basis of departure, but unfortunately it does not lack ambiguity and flaws. I'll say the lights first and then I'll come to the shadows. You put the money on to hire or stabilize more than 100,000 people and that's good. For too many people the precariousness lasted for years, humiliated expectations, passions and experience. The principles of openness of the school to digital technologies, to the world of work in terms of practical experience are established and, in any case, it is given up-to-date and short-term objectives. In essence, we try to give life to the principle of autonomy which in many respects had remained a dead letter. With regard to the tasks of the school manager, from the idea of the principal-sherif or principal-sindaco it has fallen to the mildest role of a proposing principal who has significant powers, but these have fallen within a more collegiate context than it was in the original design. The power to propose three-year assignments remains, starting - it seems - not from the next school year, but from the next. The House also approved the principle of transparency for which it is necessary to declare the absence of nepotism. So on this point there have been some steps forward. Is this enough to make the measure positive? No, unfortunately. There are two great aspects that cast heavy shadows on this bill that, if not resolved, will see me against it. The first is the scarcity of resources. All this magnifying the autonomy is hypothesized to invariance of expense. The money for the F-35 is found, the cover for the Italy unblock is found, the fiscal delegation and the consequent decrees delegated will have depressive effects of the tax revenue, but for the public school there is not an extra euro if not those strictly necessary for the recruitment and those for the card of the teacher for the cultural purchases of the teachers. And then the teachers have been waiting too long for the renewal of the contract. It would be time for the government to give them concrete answers on this point. But let us come to the tax provisions. The following paragraphs 144 et seq. of the rapporteur's amendment provide for the so-called school bonus, i.e. a significant tax relief for liberal payments in favour not only of school structures, but also for interventions that improve the employability of students, including peer schools. Apart from the fact that the meaning of "better employability" should be better specified, but I would point out that in our opinion in the Finance Committee we expressed the intention to remove this possibility because it is already attributable to the deductions already provided for in Article 15 of the single income tax text. The facility takes the form of a tax credit spread over three years, 65% of the payment for the years 2015 and 2016 and 50% for the tax periods after 31 December 2016. In addition to the three-year deduction, the tax credit is not recognised for the purpose of determining income and can also be used by means of compensation if the persons are holders of corporate income. The amount limit is set at EUR 100,000 per year for three years and therefore the total tax credit limit can be up to EUR 300,000. It is ultimately a very favourable provision for the wealthy taxpayer. It has been pointed out, from various parts, that this institute is similar to the so-called art bonus referred to in Article 1 of Decree-Law No 83 of 2014. The assimilation is not correct, since in the measure of 2014 the liberal dispensation, which gives the right of tax credit, is aimed only at public cultural assets, while here it would also be valid for private property and above all the paradox is that for the art bonus, which provides for a payment for public purposes we have provided a very low threshold, while for the school bonus, which provides for a substantially payment for private structures, we have provided an exaggeratedly high threshold! In practice, it is allowed to the taxpayer, regardless of its contribution capacity, to lighten its tax burden by directing financial resources to private assets, reproducing a mechanism similar to that in force in company law, where it is possible to deduct expenditure on income production. The problem of fiscal fairness and reasonableness and respect for the precept on the progressive nature of the tax system (Article 53 of the Constitution), to which the Constitutional Court has always attached a fundamental importance in our legal system, is therefore clear. The school bonus also runs counter to Article 33 of the Constitution, which provides for the freedom of individuals to set up schools without charges for the State (principle considered also this fundamental by the Constitutional Court). The Committee on Finance and Treasury - with whom I have been rapporteur - gave a favourable opinion on the text provided that an absolute limit on tax credit was introduced, but EUR 300,000 is not a limit, it is a manifest circumvention of the Commission's opinion on finance. Do you think that for building renovations there is a tax credit of 50%, but with the limit of 48,000 euros over ten years, then 4,800 euros per year: 100,000 euros per year for private schools do not seem too much to you? That is why I have tabled a sub-amendment to the rapporteur's amendment, which at least makes it clear that the ceiling is not 100 000 euros per tax period, but as a maximum for the three years of tax. I look forward to hearing what will happen to this sub-amendment. Reaffirming that if there were a chance to vote on the amendments of several colleagues, I would certainly have voted on the measure, and stating that I had tabled an amendment that removed the school bonus or that, in the alternative, it included a threshold of 500 euros and not 100,000 as my party did, I will vote in the spirit of discipline on this measure. I remain convinced that anyone who wants to choose to send their children to private schools is free to do so, but at their own expense, without burden on the community. They are for a public school of excellence, and I do not want my taxes to help build or restructure private schools: exactly the opposite of what we are doing with this measure. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u134	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u135	Mr President, since many things have already been said during the previous debate, I would not like to repeat myself, especially in an empty Chamber where colleagues in the Democratic Party think about doing something else. Except for some - it has to be said - who are present and interested, most colleagues in the Democratic Party think they have much better things to do than talk about school at 9.30 p.m. this evening. We believe that this is not a reform itself, but a blackmail to the school sector. The President-in-Office of the Council, an innovator, had come here to tell us yet another lie by telling us that school was a priority in his programme. So so many of us, especially at this moment in the 7th Commission, but also so many Italian citizens who had listened to it, had unfortunately believed us as always. Mr President, when we talk about reforms, we talk about content; when we do reform, we go to the content of the matter. Reforms talk about school content; if there is no content, it is not a reform. Reforms talk about programs; you go to look at the various programs that students will have to study. Unfortunately, in this fake reform you don't go to look at the programs. Reforms serve, or should serve, not only those who live the school because it works there - and so much of a hat to professors who are doing a great job in this historical period - but also those who live the school, like students, parents, who would like to know what death their children must die when they go to school. Given and given that this has not been discussed, when the President-in-Office tells yet another story to the Italians and talks about reform, he knows very well that this is not a real reform. Think that today, in the newspapers, the Agnelli Foundation speaks of this reform as a missed opportunity. The Agnelli Foundation, not Radio Padania, which could be biased. Mr President, let us be clear: once again the President-in-Office has mocked the Italians. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] Once again, the Democratic Party has mocked the Italians. Renzi tells us that the school is a priority for him, yet months pass before seeing a document. Let's do some historical excursus. If it was a priority for him, he was supposed to be here the next day talking about school. Dear colleagues of the Democratic Party, you have spent six months traveling around Italy, Italy, the Italian schools, the sections of the Democratic Party, to convince people that this reform on good school is really good. The problem is that in six months you have not managed to convince anyone, except perhaps some historical militant who is more convinced for honor of card than content. In these six months, you haven't allowed any teacher and any student to put a beak in it. You came, you explained, you said what the homework was, the teachers stood there and listened to you, the students had to listen in strict silence and then you went home. The measure came to the House, where there is a long excursion, and then to the Senate, where what you know happens. We find our President-in-Office of the Council doing the blackboard thing, trying to explain to the Italians how good the school is, but, unfortunately, at that point the situation had degenerated and everyone had realized that this good school just won't become it. And then, from the Renzi who tries to be kind to the people who according to him should be ox, we arrive at the threatening Renzi, the bad one; from Renzi 2 we move on to Renzi 1. So, seeing and considering that those bad senators - according to him, but the reality was totally different - don't want to do what I say, I start threatening them: if you don't vote for the good school there will be the hiring block. Remember teachers: because of the senators you will not be hired; the bad senators, the bad ones of the left PD and especially of the minority. It is the fault of the senators, who make too many amendments, because unfortunately we are in democracy and, consequently, there are too many amendments: you have to cut the amendments (without telling us how many amendments we should have tabled). At that point, we said to Mr Renzi: excuse us, tell us how many amendments we have to table, what we have to write and perhaps how to vote on them, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Then, seeing and considering that we were at that point in total delirium, the President-in-Office of the Council jumped into: very well, we block everything and make a maximum union with all the actors of the school. Come on, we'll come back and listen to them! Without realizing that he had pretended to listen to them for six months and without realizing that in the House and Senate committees - as President Marcucci rightly said - we had practically all listened and everyone had told us that this good school, that you insist on saying that it is good, just not good. So you get to the farce these days and everything we've seen. I honestly say to my fellow Members that in one year, in this House, we have had constitutional reform, electoral reform and, now, school reform. This fake school reform pisses me off a little bit more than the others; yet the others had pissed me off a lot. If on constitutional reform and electoral reform we are going to virtually limit the Italians the right to vote, whatever, okay, who cares, the Italians are okay, the Italians are okay Renzi and get Renzi. But on school reform we go to touch the work, the work of people, the future of people, the future of people who believed in you. I would point out that, fortunately, someone is finally opening their eyes, some of the millions of people who believed in this President of the Council and believed in this project. We're going to limit and ruin, in fact, you're going to ruin people's lives. But, happy you, happy everyone! Mr President, I also wanted to talk about content. We had these hours, these dozens of hours in the Commission to talk about content. I would have liked to have talked about the amendments we had tabled: the 130 substantive amendments, which we had shared with all those who had approached the League Group and asked us to listen to them. We have listened to them and have taken forward their proposals. They were amendments with which we asked a lot of things. I have marked an avalanche: for example, language teaching and voluntary activities. We also wanted to talk about the maintenance of Catholic traditions and festivities, we wanted to talk about taxes to foreign students, because it is not fair that only Italians pay them, since foreigners practically come, benefit from everything and in the end they don't even go to school! We wanted to talk about the introduction of the new youth games, given that Mrs Idem is talking about sport: we were also interested in sport. We wanted to talk about the valorization and study of local realities, the teaching of geography, because it is unthinkable that there are people - as we know very well - who almost do not know that Rome is the capital of Italy. We would have liked to talk about bridge classes. We would also have liked to talk about the disabled pupils; about the teaching of music, but seriously, not saying that music will be taught and that music teachers have become angry. We would have liked to talk about motor activity, because even the teachers of motor activity, after listening to you, have pissed off. On the sheriff's wardens, for God's sake, people are pissed off. We would have liked to talk about the stabilization of the precarious, those of the first and second bands; of the direct call; of the mobility plan. [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, I could prosecute for hours, but I see that unfortunately time is tyrant. Before we finish, Mr President, I would like to say that good school is everything but good. I keep saying that and we will do it until tomorrow, when the League, in this House, will definitely say no to you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] He will tell you that you have broken the boxes; you have not broken the boxes only at the League, but also the Italians, to all those who are telling you at this moment: withdraw this provision, you are still in time. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senators Bignami and Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u136	Senator Taverna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u137	Mr President, perhaps you do not know the school; I will talk about the school as I know it, being a mother, a mother who lives on the outskirts of Rome. When we were talking about making a provision for the good school, being a 5 Star Movement MP and knowing that once my two mandates are over I'll come out of here, I thought my only wish was to do something good for when I'm out of here and for when my son will ask me what I did in here. I hoped for those schools that I visited in the same neighborhood where today they are closing all sections of PD, for those schools where there was mold upstairs, where there were three bathrooms and a janitor who went in the morning at 7 and returned, then, in the afternoon at 2 p.m., when the shift was over. I dare you to enter a bathroom where there are three toilets and fifty children from six to ten years old who, at the time of recreation, go to do their needs; I dare you to go in there and think about how we treat our children; to think about how we treat them when, to go to the cafeteria or gym, they have to cross places where there are bird droppings, because upstairs the windows have not been repaired and therefore pigeons make a bit 'their pig comfortable, as you do here. My son, if I were to respect what you propose, as a poor person, he should go to a public school. The same thing you did with health care. You know well that a parent, in order to allow his child to have a future and to have an education in case he never eats. So instead of doing something for the people who are entitled, just as your children, who will be the next ruling class, propose the caste that justifies the caste, so that you can continue to give the leadership of this country to someone who doesn't know anything about how you live. Ten million people, as the income of citizenship awaits, perhaps also expected a public school that would see the taxes they pay directed at those institutions that are to welcome their children. But no: we send our taxes to private institutions, which I visited, where there is the electric outside gate that opens, where you enter with the car, where you leave your child who then goes to gymnastics, who then will have the meal and then will have the recognitions. Instead, go to a public school and leave your son there: you must accompany him inside the hall, perhaps protecting his head because the day before the cornice of the entrance collapsed and touched a child. But you leave it there, because you can't do anything different. Then you expect a Parliament, called upon to reform the good school, which concerns Italian citizens, to do this; to ensure education and security. Instead it was the barter of blackmail; the barter that you put on the field every time you had to give us little democracy, little social justice, little recognition for those who cannot afford it and wait for something inside these classrooms to move, so that every citizen's dignity is recognized, not for what he has but for what he is. Who gives you the right to decide for a child who cannot afford a private school, who must finish eighth or fifth grade and go to work? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] How can you think that when you enroll a child in school, at the beginning of the year the books cost 400 euros, when you happen to have earned 800 at the end of the month? And if you only have one child you are lucky (and then someone comes to tell me that you no longer have children!): make two, make three and then buy 400 euros of books for each, with the risk that the next year they change, because maybe three words have changed or maybe because the representative of the book had some extra interest, and then the teacher decides to change the books the following year, and those you bought do not fit for the other son, because you can not pass them. And when you go around looking for used books, when the kids ask you for the folder, they ask you to be exactly like the others? I leave you only one message and I hope that some of you will be ashamed when you meet a child who cannot go to private school. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u138	Mr President, the great pedagogist, the greatest living, Edgar Morin, says that everything that does not regenerate degenerates. Where do we come from as far as school is concerned? We come from a period of great degeneration. I just want to remind you that, after the choices made by Berlinguer, we have had another reform, among others, a terrible law that we have discussed for a long time in the past legislation: that of Gelmini. I want to remind those who today have magnified the progressive fortunes of that law, that the Gelmini reform has wiped out 85,000 chairs at one stroke. [[Applause from Senator Puglisi]] I think we're going exactly in the reverse direction here. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I am convinced that there can be no good school without good teachers, there is no doubt. We also want to say that we need to train teachers well, that we need to think about training and recruitment: a recruitment that is finally done on the basis of merits, abilities, individual inclinations. We know this because we lived the age of precariousness, and many very good teachers lived it, but this problem was not only of precariousness, but of precariousness and didactic discontinuity; maybe sometimes Let's remember that. Let's remember that the school has the students at the center first of all. Training means, for example, training well those teachers who deal with disability, and on this - I am sorry that the Government is totally absent, and I am sorry that it is a majority person who has to say it, but it will remain in the act - I am sure the Government will move. I believe that there is a problem of identifying tools for the quality of specialization courses with regard to support teachers, the revision of the timetable for the appointment of support teachers; the provision of the obligation for support teachers to communicate to school and parents the objectives achieved (because we are talking about people who have greater difficulties than other boys and girls). Again, I could say elements that could reduce litigation; a conciliation clause in favour of good administration performance and for those disabled students who are in the difficult situation of having to have home learning. I do not want to go on with this; there is the opinion of the Health Commission which is very well-structured, and which I hope the Government can take into account. I was saying, initial training, recruitment in role, training in service: this seems to me to be what we intend to do. Enhancing the cultural and social role of teachers in particular. Forgive me for being frank, in a debate in another House a phrase has been said which I think is very important: with all respect for all professions, the teacher is not an employee, and therefore, when we talk about the recruitment of teachers, we are not talking about the recruitment and regularization of an employee, but about an intellectual figure that as such should be treated, and I believe that much more can and should be done about this, especially on the innovation front. This means governing a difficult transition and the Government is trying to do so, in a thousand difficulties. However, compared with the 8-10 billion euro cut, compared to the will to cut and punish that we have witnessed in the past years, we are faced with a gigantic investment in the resources of our State, with an allocation of three billion euros, which I believe should be recognised by this House, for the effort that has been made. We who approve the law of stability know how great the effort is, because we know that in other areas there are reductions that hurt and that are difficult to accept: I only think about the issue of health value. There is no time to talk about this, because I would like to deal with a second point. Our school needs school autonomy, because the world has changed and we cannot think that a boy, a girl or a child will continue to learn in the traditional, classic, ancient and far from reality and to consider the school something else from his life. Do we need this done in the territory? Senator Malan was talking about it, I think. Yes, we really need it to be in the territory, but not to create A and B schools, not because there must be the rich and the poor, indeed. It is just a school like the one we risk having today that becomes a class school, a school that considers the school dispersion not as it should be considered, that is as the expulsion of the weakest. Did we talk about this? No, we are not talking about this, because it is more important to make pansindicalism in an institutional assembly, which should instead deal with the addresses and the great values that animate the school. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Everything must have its place and there is a need for the territory, because a child, a boy and a boy have the right and duty to know where they live, what they have around them, how they must move and what they must understand; and the territory can and must collaborate with the school of autonomy? Yes! If we do not want to create imbeciles, we inevitably need a bigger relationship between the students and the territory in which they live, also to learn some equality, because this beautiful school today, which protects only those who can and does many activities only in the morning and in which the time of study and effort is confined in the afternoon hours, is certainly not good. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I therefore think that the theme is to open the mind to the real and the great values of today. Many changes have been made and I think it is important to point out that some things that really did not go well have been fixed. Speaking of the principal-sheriff, I would like to say that I believe that the principal is primarily a school manager and a manager, part of the public administration, has a duty to be trained and evaluated, but he also has a duty to direct, just as teachers have the right to be trained, but they also have the duty to be evaluated. I conclude with a very small quotation from Edgar Morin - the President will allow me, in this debate so poor in value - [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group),]] which says: There is a virtuous circle that must encourage the conjunction of the two to know how to live, what helps to be less wrong, to understand, to face uncertainty, to know the human condition, to know our globalized world, to draw from the sources of every moral, which are solidarity and responsibility. It is what helps us to orient ourselves in our civilization, to know its submerged part, which like that of the iceberg is more important than the part that emerged, to defend and protect ourselves and to protect our loved ones. Good school is this school here and the teachers... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator De Biasi. DE BIASI (PD). I'll finish, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I had her finish the quote. DE BIASI (PD). All right, ma'am, thank you so much. I'm done. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u141	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I think it is unrespectful of the House to say that this debate is a matter of value and it is not enough to quote, reading the first book found in the library! [[Applause from the M5S, Misto-SEL and LN-Aut groups.]] [[Senator De Biasi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u142	Let us continue with the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u143	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). You and all that part of the hemicycle are worthless! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Centinario, please. You made your point and the senator concluded her speech. He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u144	Mr President, I, too, honestly, would leave Edgar Morin alone, also because I have very little time available and I would really like to get away with a joke to the Government: you have made a masterpiece of this level, with this history of good school, that even Forza Italia does not vote for it, and look at it is incredible that Forza Italia does not vote for it. Being here I played the game of the white, that is I deleted the title and the name of who wrote it on the reform Aprea-Gelmini and on this Renzi-Giannini of the so-called good school and then I did what in my area is called the game of the three cards, that is I mixed them and I found enormous difficulties to understand what the old reform was and which the new one. Yet, the level of your masterpiece has been such that not even Forza Italia votes for a reform that is basically what they have been supporting for fifteen years. [[Senator Crimi's comments.]] Very briefly, also because I have very few minutes (it would have been much more serious a debate with much more time and much more deepening, but unfortunately in this Parliament the deepening of the fundamental issues is rare) I would like to say at least the basic reasons why I think this reform is totally wrong and I think that you are causing serious damage not only political, but cultural to the very end, to a significant piece of the real foundations of this country, of the few intermediate bodies that have remained. First of all, it is by no means true that the major amendment that you will be tabling, if someone submits it tomorrow, changes the substance of the measure as approved in the House. It has been told during these days, also by the President of the Council on television on unified networks, that we would be listened to, that a conference would be put in place, that you would talk to the teachers, to the students, to everyone, and instead in the end, in fact, the measure you put on the field here in the Senate is basically the same that was discussed a few days ago. The call power of the principal remains and also on this point read the Aprea reform: it contains exactly the same idea. We have said a thousand times in the course of these hours that affects freedom of teaching, makes it easier to clientelism, it also introduces elements of deep difficulty within schools that can risk becoming even trend schools; you introduce an element of tax bonus that risks to accentuate more the inequality between the upper and lower middle classes, you also introduce a very dangerous element on private schools. Again, I have nothing against private schools, but the written, sacred words of our Constitution remain, and those words, Minister, are five: "without burdens for the State" and instead you have forgotten. [[Applause from Senators Mussini and Fucksia.]] You force the qualified to take new exams in the competitions as if they had not already passed so many selections and, last but not least, you have also introduced this really unbearable mechanism, the great blackmail, this idea really a bit bald according to which it would be the oppositions and their amendments to prevent recruitment, when evidently all those who have had to do with this reform know the truth, and fortunately over the last few months our country is beginning to realize what are the elements of propaganda and lies that have been told and how the truth instead comes out. The second consideration is that they seem to be so many different things, constitutional reform, electoral law, school reform; those who are distracted can imagine talking about a number of different subjects. I would like us to discuss this very seriously one day, the basic idea that accompanies this principle: I continue to think that the idea that you are putting in place is the same, both when you are talking about constitutional reforms, when you are making the electoral law, and when you are talking about school reform, and the idea is that of man alone in command, which applies to the institutions - the democratic institutions, which are elected - and also to the school. Attention. I have said this a thousand times in this House. Attention. Because this basic idea is a dangerous idea. It is not at all said that this is an idea that is useful to this country. A slogan from the Renzi government said: change of direction. Other than changing direction: here there is total continuity with what has been done over these years. Unfortunately, total continuity. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Montevecchi and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u145	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u146	Mr President, the work done in the Commission over the past few months has been almost useless and profoundly humiliating, all the more so if we think that this should have been the great reform of the school, a fundamental reform for the country. It seems to me that the abyss is absolute. The text arrived from the amended House was to be a text of enrichment and discussion, but the discussion, to which the 5 Star Movement was very ready, turned out to be something senseless and demeaning. The two rapporteurs rewritten Articles 1, 2, 3 and 8 in solitary first, obliging opposition to sub-amendments, and then starting the mantra: Too many amendments, we cannot analyse them all. About ten amendments were voted on and then silence. A bounce of responsibility, with the unique statement in a television lounge where the Prime Minister decides that the school bill will be re-discussed in July. This has caused a firm image in the Education Commission with the disconvocation of all appointments. In fact, it was only and exclusively a continuous and useless chasing after nothingness. Because none of the minorities wanted to hinder the times, none of the minorities were interested in putting the majority in trouble, but just proceeding and working on the substance of the law text. Those who have worked in the school feel even more frustrated that it is impossible to act on the merits of a school reform bill. That is why today I feel that the right thing is to address my speech to my students, parents and my dear colleagues who live, with me and with me, this absurd pain, this sense of impossibility to be heard. Dear students, a new school will begin in September and I feel compelled to apologize. Despite all our efforts, we have failed to persuade those who had the power and the duty to do so to change the text. Apparently, we have not been able to convince the Minister that investing in your training would benefit all of us and it would pollute neither water nor air. Until your educational needs prevail over those of Confindustria and TreeLLLe, please accept my deepest apologies. I am sorry for those of you who encounter difficulties at school and will not receive the right support, because financing your needs is not one of the priorities of current economic policy, being this bill at zero cost and zero investment. I am sorry that you have to study subjects that do not interest you at a time when the total sum of human knowledge doubles every twelve months, where the updating and passion will depend only and always on the good will of the teachers. I'm sorry that they make you believe that in order to get the maximum of the votes you have to compete with each other, with tables and tests that are worthless and ineffective. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It takes little to know that progress is being made through cooperation. I am sorry that you will continue to be forced to use textbooks that contain outdated information and find at school dilapidated technologies whose maintenance nobody deals with. "There are no resources" is the phrase of ritual. I am sorry that the reform of the school, so buzzed by the current government, produces such significant changes where values such as cooperation, sociality and sharing are thrown into one of the many landfills of the mind. Oblivion will be the only cure. I'm sorry. I wish I could tell you that here in Italy the public education system is a priority of politicians, convinced that the future society of their country depends on the characteristics of the educational system. I wish I could tell you about the commitment and dedication to the work of parliamentarians in the majority, but in reality they know nothing about freedom of teaching, didactics and the very value of democracy. For these politicians the priority lies in the management of the school and in the managerial model, in a total and unheard-of force against fundamental constitutional rights. I still apologize and apologise to the precarious, illusory on an assumption that could have eliminated their precarious state, but nothing will change because we are talking about the mirror for the lark of recruitment, used to hide the horror of the death of didactics, the deontology of teaching and the value of learning. Today the places really available are 134,000 and would be much more if the right to study was really valued, if the hen classes and the ghetto classes were eliminated [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The 100,000 assumptions that flag Renzi, actually decreased by 50,000, will be assumptions with legal effect. Today there is no miracle and there is no reason to rejoice; it is a sad day for all of us and also for you today that you think you have won and instead you have soiled the future of our children. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u147	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u148	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Senator De Cristofaro, I do not believe that the prevailing idea of this Government is that of man only in command, but that this man alone in command constantly combines in drawing up his proposals, that is, that the titles are valid and do not matter the contents. So he did with the Senate reform, so he's doing with the bill under consideration, so he's doing with the retirement and he's doing it and he's doing it with so many other things. This lack of content also depends - let us say this - on two factors: partly on its ignorance, in the literal sense of the term (I do not want to offend anyone), partly on the acquiescence of this Parliament, on which it exerts such political pressure and conviction as to make all its proposals pass as good. School reform had to be an important, high, noble thing, because our school needs to be reformed. In a modern and civil society as ours wants to be, school is the backbone, especially of the future, but I see nothing of this in the draft law under consideration. I do not see the students, who must first be the subject of a good reform of the school, their training paths, the adherence of these paths to the needs and opportunities of the market. I do not see the teachers valorized, to whom dignity should be restored, and instead - as we have seen through the tens and hundreds of thousands of e-mails that have arrived - they are all at war with each other, in battle for an escape of consolidation of their place of precarious. On this point too, a reflection must be made. Why do we move towards the abolition of a minimum proportion of the precarious? It is the same thing as pensions: a judgment has come to us; the European Union has come to tell us that we had to go towards this solution, just as the Constitutional Court has spoken about the return of pensions and now it will talk about reopening the blockade of civil servants' allowances. Then, once again we will also see in that field, as we are doing in this, a minimal solution, just because we must observe what we are told to do, not with an overall look at the needs of the country. Mr President, you are well aware that in my school life I had a fortune, that of attending the same high school classrooms that John Gentile attended and today it is inevitable to compare a great reform of the school, that good or bad has stood for a hundred years - with good peace of whoever listens to us - the weeding of our society, and a reform of the school that reform is not. But what reform is this of the school, if not the adjustment of some small occupational solutions and - I repeat - limited, divisive and absolutely not shared by the whole teaching staff, even by those who can benefit from it? It is a reform that disappoints students, who are the most angry, not so much because they are forced to remain in the conditions in which they are, but above all because they were illusory about the fact that there would be a reform. The only thing that is done, even there wrong, is to increase the school-work hours mountain, knowing very well that in many parts of the country, where the companies now close and are really few, this will be a further task that will have to be faced and our young people will probably have to fulfill this obligation in our public bodies, perhaps to unlearn rather than to learn what a good manager of tomorrow should do; and they continue to look at this school as the one that will not allow them to find work. Those few who can find him will certainly not find him in our country, because they will have to go to specialize and work outside, thus remaining our school. What are we talking about? This is not, as I said, a reform of the school: it would have been much wiser politically to withdraw it and this should have also been inspired by the majority and the President of the Council itself by the results of the last electoral consultations. Why do you think your consent has diminished so much? It certainly did not increase ours, I am the first to recognize it, but it has increased that of those who intercepted in this bad reform of the school mood, indignation and irritation towards the government. You cannot even grasp the political signals that come from the electorate and the citizens. You should have withdrawn it and redesigned a great, real and important school reform in this Parliament, not through half-breeds that were invented, not because of the President of the Commission, but because of the pervicacious will to move forward in order to avoid the vote in the Commission, knowing that the slips would have been possible there, and also numerous, and then arrive at the usual formula of trust, which requires a majority, which is now absolutely in the hands of the Government and the President of the Council, to take such measures. I really do not know: I have also heard from the left itself - and, to see it, from a certain point of view, I should be pleased - and from Senator Pagliari to elaborate limits to the concept of freedom, freedom of choice and private school as a good alternative to public school, all things on which we can of course also agree. One thing I want to tell you, however, that I have noted from the lines of this provision: the intervention of individuals, even in the public school, does not find - as happens in a text that comes from the left - the contemplation in an equivalent way of the obligation to the right to study of all young people who attend public schools. There are cases, ladies and gentlemen, of diligent garrisons inventing paid courses within the public school reserved only for those who contribute, while the great example of the American liberal school - and that really is a free and civilized country - says that fifty percent of the students pay 100% of the education of all the others, according to criteria and mechanisms that are of equivalence in ensuring the right to study of all children and all students. But where did you find this school reform? I really do ask you that. Senator De Cristofaro says that they have found it in previous texts that came from the experience of the Government also of the center-right: I say that they have found it by chance, perhaps in some ministerial drawer, because we are now used - as I said initially - to hear roboating titles and ministerial content (we have seen it in environmental policies and on many other occasions). Roboating titles, which should silence public opinion, which instead reacted, hit you hard with the last electoral outcome. It will hit you even more, and this for us could also be good, if it were not the consequence of a damage that is created in the country; it will hit you even more, if you continue with this going and especially on this bill of the school. It's not a good school, the one you're drawing, but a busy school and absolutely not suitable to solve any problems, but to create a lot of them, and you'll notice. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u149	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tocci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u150	I appreciated President Renzi when he acknowledged that he had made a mistake about the school; they were challenging, unusual and sincere words, as was then seen in the attempt he made to correct the course. We all welcomed the proposal to reopen the dialogue by convening a major conference in July. I believed in it, trying to make a contribution in my little one, not only with the few characters of a text message to the President, but with dozens of pages of proposals considered innovative also by neutral observers, with loyalty to the Government and commitment to my party, both in the past and in the future. Then there was Renzi's turn back: in a few hours we passed from the offer of a comparison to the imposition of the vote of confidence. The result is sad only to say: for the first time in republican life, the Senate is forced to adopt a law on school without being able to amend it either in the Commission or in the Chamber. I turn to President Grasso. The reform of bicameralism must not be confused with the humiliation of this House. The opposition's amendments are being blocked. That is not true. Last week it was my political side that asked for the Commission's work to be postponed. We should recognize that. I feel it as a duty. I have bitterly opposed two school laws in Parliament, first that of Minister Moratti and then that of Minister Gelmini. In my opinion, two devastating measures have been taken, but I must admit - right here, in front of my fellow Members on the right, even though they are absent - that we in the opposition were able to vote on the amendments after a lively parliamentary debate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Today inverted parts there is no discussion. I regret this for my party, because a great political force must say the same things in the majority and the opposition. Was there really a need to create a shock to approve such a modest measure? It is a failed reform that slides like water on the stones of Italian delays, yet it has opened a wound never so deep in the soul of the school: they are two sides of the same coin. There's a movie that's already been seen. Teachers have been penalized by almost all the legislative measures of the last 20 years: the freezing of salaries, the lack of resources, bureaucratic complication. Only the ownership of the chair and the freedom of teaching remained. If the last recognition fails, the teacher's dignity is hurt. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL Groups and Senators Bignami and Mussini]] That is the deep reason for the protest that the Government cannot even understand. It was an opportunity to recognize the merit of teachers. You don't need one-off rivalry with your colleagues. Only the empty head of the palace economists may think that such incentives improve quality. The school is more complex: it takes the new professional figure of the experienced teacher who follows the tutoring of the new recruits, the orientation of the students, the didactic innovation. The merit in the school is not a solipsistic gain, it is a resource that enriches others. The merit at school is the candle that lights other candles, without losing its light, but illuminating the entire community. The school is the public institution that combines the community and the freedom of education. The imbalance in favor of the principal is like introducing an elephant into the crystal. The discretionary power to derogate from the merit rankings of competitions in the real country means opening the breach to clientelism, to further inequalities, to schools of ideological tendency, just as fundamentalisms push at the door. The opportunity for real reform has been wasted. There were all the favorable conditions. For the first time, the President of the Council had put the school first. He should have called the best intelligences in the country to write a project that lives up to the problems of the century that comes, to face reality, even the bitterest one, and to change it. The new illiteracy of adults affects 70% of the population, the most serious figure in the OECD area. Apprenticeship on the benches does not last in adult life. Our young people remain in school until the age of 19, more than the European standard, but the educational effectiveness decreases from elementary to high school. School cycles are inconsistent and discontinuous, they lose students up to 17 percent, a very high share. Evidently, the teaching, the cycles and the very way to do school should be rethought in the face of the challenges of the new world. How do you talk about school without dealing with these problems? Does anyone think they can only be solved with the principal in charge? In the post-war period, the Italian school taught to read and write to millions of illiterates, led to the graduation of the children of the peasants and the workers, renewed the teaching by following the lessons of great teachers. And it was the miracle of civil, democratic growth of a great industrial country. Today we are richer than then and we are still unable to put the school in a position to perform another miracle, to fully fulfil the republican tasks, to remove inequalities and adapt the competences of citizens to the age of knowledge. Such changes are necessary. We have seen too many fake reforms in the past twenty years. Here we ask for confidence to impose a law that deals only with school administration and at the most of a hiring plan, a law that stores the existing with many repetitions and serious errors, which writes hundreds of pages of heterogeneous and improvised norms, increasing a bureaucracy already asphyxiating today. The real change of the school is still to be imagined: those who will implement it in the future will be remembered as the country's greatest political personality. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Misto-SEL groups and Senators Bignami, Di Maggio and Floris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u151	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u152	Mr President, the Premier, with his usual and bad sense of humor, has defined this measure as the reform of good school, and it is so good that it is considered a bad reform by all: by teachers, administrative employees, school workers, students, all trade union acronyms, by the opposition and even by many senators and MPs of the Democratic Party, including voters, who are now abandoning you and no longer believe in you. Strikes, protests in the streets, continuous protests addressed to Minister Giannini and Prime Minister Renzi have not served any purpose. We just witnessed the Premier's usual mockery. Renzi said: "I will compare myself with everyone. I will convene the general states of the school on 1 July. A lot of talk, as usual, to end with yet another confidence on a ghost text that should reform the school. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] One more time, one more time. The Parliament's classrooms are now becoming a theatre where Renzi forces us to attend a farce every time (and unfortunately also to recite it). Accusing oppositions of obstructionism is now a weary and shameful rite. There is no obstruction in this House, there is simply a majority that no longer believes in its Premier, its President-in-Office of the Council. The Government did not even want to discuss the amendments in the Commission. Trust serves only to overcome your divisions, not the alleged obstruction of oppositions. Everything was already decided and organized: Commissions summoned and made useless with the sole aim of wasting time and then asking the question of trust. The usual arrogance and arrogance of a pompous Premier, who has no respect for anything and no one. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] Let's get to the content. Stabilization of 45,000 teachers hired for turnover or vacancies: a virtually obligatory choice. Of the remaining 55,000 there is absolute uncertainty and vagueness about the times and ways of stabilization. Then, for the remaining precarious ones, the so-called second-range ones, a single certainty: from September they will all be at home, without any prospect of work. They were granted only a contest in December, disputed and absolutely inadequate. Then what else? Cancellation of the autonomy of teaching, contrary to Article 33 of the Constitution, which was one of the cornerstones of the left; it has always been, but in this reform it is denied and deleted. Again. Direct call of teachers by school leaders with criteria that risk becoming absolutely out of control, subjective and discretionary, and then, after three years, the teacher can be sent back to the sender as a package. Evaluating the merit of teachers by school managers with the help of an evaluation committee. But what confusion, what conflicts will arise in schools with this method? You have displeased everyone, creating a terrible lottery for the hiring of precarious people, penalising teachers and professors who have been working in schools for years and who will be excluded from hiring just because they are in the wrong lists and rankings; wrong for Renzi and his government. The interventions for school construction risk being empty and illusory promises: those of a premier paroleio and inconclusive. Finally, let's say no to the white delegations to the Government present in this measure: from recruitment by teachers, to reform of school and childhood, to the possibility that the Government introduces the proposals of the World Health Organization on sexual education to children, from zero to four years, which are absolutely creepy. We do not trust this Government, we have never done so and, day after day, month after month, even the Italians are losing it, and they are losing, above all, their patience towards a Premier who tells lies, has no respect for anyone, who is now far from the dramatic reality of our country, and who has only one goal: to satisfy his narcissism and his ambition. The North League says no to Renzi, no to this government, no to this bad school reform. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u153	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u154	From 1999 to 2015 there were eight school reforms: one every two years. They all cut, none improved students' knowledge, teachers' conditions, the relationship between society and school. The public school was born in the Enlightenment period with the best intentions and in the course of the road we went from the reform Gentile, classical and rigorous, but at least disciplined, even if classist, to that of the revolutions of the sixties and seventies, of pedagogical structuralism, to the ideological conquests of the seventies. Then, after 1990, the decline. I thought that the minimum levels we had reached with the Gelmini reform and reductionism in all respects: in educational practices, in content, in methods, in instruments. Now we have even reached a non-reform, because this, my lords, is not a reform: this is an economic dictation suggested by TreeLLle and Confindustria. Personally, I have nothing against Confindustria, or rather high esteem, but that deals with companies; the school is not a company. The school is the institution that, as Senator Tocci said before, guarantees that social justice and also that social evolution that gives everyone the same opportunities. But we no longer ask the kids to think; thinking seems almost superfluous and we are no longer interested in forming citizens, but poor consumers, people who have to follow, obey, adapt quickly and not break the boxes too much. The spirit of the Constitution has been lost, that of Article 34: the school is open to all and merit must be a criterion for achieving the highest levels of study for all. The school gave weight to those who didn't have it. The school made equality: it does not absolve poverty, but within its walls - it has been said - it allowed peers, the odd began outside. But now the odds come in. But the worst disaster, the most violent action of this measure is given by the profile of unconstitutionality in fact because, bypassing the legitimacy of regional and provincial competitions and rankings, the assumption to the discretion of a principal who is an executive, not a master is delegated. In fact, there is no third party. Arguments have been raised about Article 138, the padlock article to safeguard the Constitutional Charter. Well now, in my opinion, this measure cries out revenge, because Article 97, according to which public administration is accessed by competition, has an even greater significance in some respects. The third age of the school guarantees democracy, civilization, justice and objectivity. This is a mixed regime that does not satisfy anyone. But you didn't have the courage to go all the way: at this point, you also give power of expense to the principals and then fire them in case of failure. You couldn't get to this: it would be absurd, for Christ's sake, but you wouldn't have the courage to do it either. It is also absurd the method of evaluation of teachers (I see that Senator Pagliari has returned). But how can a principal, who is not all-purpose, judge on the merits of the disciplinary competences of the individual professors? Can a principal who has graduated in sociology have skills to evaluate the mathematics teaching of someone who may have graduated in mathematics in Pisa? Or an ISEF teacher (because this is what it is), who perhaps did not even do the contest, but had the preferred lane, because he had done years of service, is able to evaluate the teaching of a teacher of letters or philosophy or anything else? It is even more absurd to have put the possibility of evaluation for students and parents on the evaluation committee. I am happy that parents have the title to talk about customer satisfaction, i.e. the evaluation of the service received, but not the evaluation of teachers. The merit of teachers is measured by serious professionals and third parties: inspectors. Just one example: in France there are 3,000 inspectors, while in Italy there are 70 and the competitions are blocked. Here, then, third-party professionals from the state. There are many things that I would like to say, even ridiculous, because when you exalt the possibility of this measure to assume you should say that this is not a gift, but it is an obligation addressed by Europe. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] And, when we talk about the 200 million for the credit, it makes me laugh, because, considering the 700,000 teachers total, the whole thing is down and it ends up being 8 euros a month, a phone charge to send a tweet, maybe not too nice to those who deserve it. Everything is dealt with badly and we do not think of structural reform, which would be an important requirement in this globalised world, which goes so fast. Instead of giving skills, skills, criticalities and methods to know, what is taught? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator Fucksia. FUCKSIA (M5S). I'm not done. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But you're two minutes past your assigned time. Please finish. FUCKSIA (M5S). Then let me just read these words, which are not mine: Let us assume, so abstractly, that there is a ruling party, a ruling party, which, however, formally wants to respect the Constitution, does not want to violate it in essence. He does not want to march on Rome and transform the classroom into housing for the manipoli; but he wants to establish, without an opinion, a larved dictatorship. So, what do you do to take over schools and turn state schools into party schools? He realizes that state schools have a flaw in being impartial. There is a certain resistance; in those schools there is always, even under fascism there was. Then, the ruling party follows another path (...). He starts neglecting public schools, discrediting them, impoverishing them. Let them get animated and start favoring private schools. Not all private schools. The schools of your party, that party. And then all care begins to go to these private schools. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. FUCKSIA (M5S). Care for money and privileges. (...) Thus private school becomes a privileged school. These words are very current but they are, in reality, from 1950 and Piero Calamandrei pronounced them, expressing himself in this way before the 3rd Congress... ( [[The microphone turns off automatically. Applause from the M5S Group).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u155	Senator Compagna is registered to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u156	As he is not present in this Chamber, he is intended to give up his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u157	She is registered to speak Senator Di Giorgi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u158	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tonight I want to tell a story, which begins by talking about children, children, young generations, therefore an important story, perhaps the most important one because we are talking about children, children and the future. Once upon a time there was a nation, an ancient nation, full of monuments, rich in art and culture, with unique landscapes in the world (sea, mountains, cities, villages), a nation where everyone wanted to go at least once in life and this, in fact, had always happened over the centuries. But this nation had a big problem: its rulers for many, many years had not taken care of the school for their young people and their children, although their Constitutional Charter was clear on this point and said that among the founding principles of that Republic there was the right to study: it was one of the most important principles. Thus, for many, many years, it happens that the school of that nation, despite the commitment of the professors, slowly decays: the necessary resources are not made available and, slowly, something very serious and very tragic is reached. In that country the children, many, too many, began to leave school: they could not be there. In fact, they got out of hand with their teachers, who no longer knew how to hold them. Here's our story. I'm talking about us. I'm talking about Italy. Ours is one of the countries that sits among the greats of the world, which is in a civilized Europe, oriented to development. Well, in this country, schools are not up to our young people: our school does not meet their needs. Early school leaving is one of our most important plagues: where there is no school there is no soul, there is no conscience, unfortunately. We have to solve this. My colleague, it was certainly not what Piero Calamandrei wanted, I am convinced of this; it was not what Don Milani wanted (he was also mentioned in today's debate). Perhaps, however, something needs to be done, a change is needed. It is urgent that someone tries to strike a wing; perhaps they try to fly high; perhaps they try to say a few words of truth about this reform, about this provision, about which everyone speaks as if it were the greatest iattura that could have happened in recent years: a iattura, a devastation, the destruction of the Italian school. It is, however, an attempt to do something serious, to intervene in this situation, which is dramatic precisely because our children in school are not there. One out of three Italian students leaves school, this is the theme. We need to talk about school, but we need to talk about the students, the people inside the school. Some of my colleagues have done so, particularly my group's senators, which I very much appreciated. I have to say that the children have been very far away from this debate and have been very far away from the whole path we have taken. It takes a lot of patience in the Senate: I have heard so many statements that are frankly, in some ways, unhearable. It has been said that there has been no debate. It must also be documented: I have examined the work that took place between the House and the Senate. The House had 43 hours of hearing and 39 hours of plenary sessions in the 7th Commission. In the Senate we had five hours of the Presidency Council and 21 hours of plenary sessions. We did joint auditions, remember? Maybe you didn't come, but we did. We've had joint sessions. We listened to 90 associations and unions in the House, 40 listened to them here. Have you all forgotten these numbers? Yet, we were there for sure, some of you also, and you know how much we talked and how many pages of minutes were filled. Of course, we have listened very much, but then we have to govern, we have to decide. You listen to those who think in one way and those who think in another; you know well that listening does not mean then making the decision that that person, or that group (of pressure or of any kind) or that association wants. It is a matter of taking a position, which is a government position. At this moment, of course, we are governing, unfortunately for someone perhaps, and so we take responsibility for it. We take the responsibility, therefore, to pursue this highly debated measure; let alone the fact that it has been more than a year. It started in August, you have said so many times, but it did not start like this: there is talk of it everywhere and a lot of observations - and it is dishonest not to recognize it - have come from all over Italy, first from the population, from the organized citizens, then from the citizens who have been heard in our halls, in the institutional places. Then, on the amendments, there was the amendment tabled in the Commission by the rapporteurs, who examined one by one of the proposals that had been made, which we had to support in this parliamentary process which was defined. Many of the transformations and myriads of observations that have been made have been collected, and if - I hope you have - you look at the text well, you will see that there are. However, I started from another point of view, Mr President. I would ask that we leave a few additions to my speech to the proceedings. I am only interested in making a few points here.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u159	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u160	DI GIORGI (PD). I would like to return to the question of general principles, about what has not been talked about because the soul, the spirit, the heart of this reform in my opinion has not been told here: it has been captured by many, however. It is not true that no one likes this reform; it is not true that this great, enormous proposal of ours, at a time like this, this story that we want to tell is not accepted, is not considered and is not approved by anyone. Perhaps from those who scream a little less; perhaps there are many who certainly do not agree, but many others do agree because, in the whole text and in the precise measures we introduce, they recognize the general principles to which we hold a great deal. General principles in this provision and which I invite you to read. On the basis of what I said at the beginning of my speech, we want to affirm the central role of school in society. We put billions in it. We are those - I say this to empty benches, even those who ruled before us; I do not address you of the 5 Star Movement, of course - who have invested a great deal of billions, and there are many of them on school building, not only for the 100,000 professors we will hire, but also for building, to make beautiful schools: there is everything. FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). That's not true. DI GIORGI (PD). You know that we have already invested a great deal in construction this year. They are facts, not speeches: just go and look at the acts and see all the measures taken. FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). We saw them. DI GIORGI (PD). It is enough to see also the many contracts on schools that have already been made in the various territories. Our general principles are those. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I would like to ask you a little more time because it is a lot of months of work in the Commission, so you understand that there is a bit of passion. We want then to reaffirm the central role of the school in the knowledge society, to raise the levels of education, the competences of students and students - Senator Puglisi recognizes these texts - respecting their times, their learning styles. We also want to combat social and territorial inequalities; to prevent and recover abandonment and dispersion, in line with the educational, cultural and professional profile of the different levels of education. That's what we need for the 100,000 professors we hire. This must be served by the further recruitment of professors, of those within the 100,000 and the other 60,000, so we will be doing a competition. Look at this: there is now a contest ready, for those who will have to do it, for another 60,000 places. This will be done by the new teachers we put in the school and that is why we could not do the excerpt of the norm on hiring. There is no point in asking ourselves, with very little chance, to carry out the excerpt. The deletion is not done, it cannot be done and we did not want to do it for a specific reason, that is because those teachers serve for a new school. I hope that Italy understands this, even if not everyone in this House will understand it. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u161	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u163	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, we arrived at 22.45 and of course there is no time limit for the sitting to be concluded. We are talking about a fundamental measure and also our Constitutional Charter, Article 33, reminds us that the Republic lays down general rules on education and establishes state schools for all orders and grades. Article 33 (3) also states that: "Entities and private persons shall have the right to establish schools and educational establishments, but shall not be charged to the State." The measure before us, on the other hand, contains burdens for the State and I cannot understand how the first permanent Commission was able to bring the measure to the House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, I remind you that you asked to speak on the order of business. These aspects have been examined and we are proceeding with the general discussion. We will see the developments and then, in the next stages, we will make its assessments in the light of what is expected. There are also other colleagues from your Group who are members of the Group of the European People's Party who are in general discussion. PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask the 5th standing Commission to report to the House whether, in the light of the provisions of Article 33 (3) of the Constitution, the measure does indeed have aspects... PRESIDENT. Your assessment is correct, Senator Puglia: we will see the continuation of the work, if there are any amendments, and in that case the 5th Commission will have to evaluate them. Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u164	Mr President, Senator Di Giorgi is right, it really takes a lot of patience, but I do not belong to the ranks of those who do the mantra renzi, according to whom we can discuss infinitely, so much he decides. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] I certainly don't belong to that army. I too would like to start with a story that tells you a lot about what is the feeling of this House about what happens outside. Last night, yet another Italian entrepreneur took his life: it is the Commendatore Maschio. This is right to mean what is the reality that our country lives and to signal, even at the various meetings of the Leaders, what are the priorities that the Country system needs right now. What if we borrow the title of the provision on good school and try for once to take care of good governance? The question, at first glance, may appear peregrine, but in reality it is not. How many mistakes have been made in the process of this measure that, I say without any inflaming, also has something good inside it. Why, I wonder, does one continue to use a method that produces nothing other than stiffening between the parties involved, with sometimes harmful results, often dangerous, but almost always between the irrational and the incomprehensible? This makes my initial question relevant and timely. When will this Parliament take note of the inadequacy of this Government? When can we finally start thinking good government? How can we move forward with decree-laws or draft laws of reform that arrive in the Chamber without the normal dialectical confrontation that every legislative process must have in the natural seats of the Commissions, or with measures that arrive in the Chamber without speakers? When, that is, that voidness, impalpability, negligence, the nothingness of Renzian timing will give way to concreteness, substance, health, in a word only to good governance? That good government that the healthy part of our country has been waiting for a long time, too long I would say. And when - and this I ask above all to the Genuflexi people, that is to say to all that majority that abdicates to its function in the desolate hope of a legislature that arrives at its natural end [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] - will this House be reimposed on its normal constitutional function, i.e. that of law-making? When will it happen? And when will it be possible for this feeling to become the feeling of who presides over this branch of Parliament? Or should we continue to legislate with this schizophrenic method, which then so schizophrenic is not, if it serves to raise social tensions, if it serves to raise curtains of smoke, if it serves to distract public opinion while the maneuver disassembles and reassembles in his image and likeness the most important safe of power? Here she is, the figure of the reformer, a defiant magician who plays on the skin, on the needs, on the sufferings, on the expectations of the people to occupy places of power. Here is the method, which instead of being destroyed is perpetuated and indeed sees in the current President of the Council its maximum expression, that method which in the same law puts meat and fish, sacred and profane, salt and sugar, because 100,000, 80,000, 60,000, 40,000 hirings of precarious professors end up in the bill on good school? Why, that fits us, as another false reformer would have said? Who knows what Senator Ichino will say, a tetragon supporting the first interests of the State yesterday, who attacked the Minister of State of the civil service D'Alia for the stabilization of 60,000 civil servants, today who has gone to defend the magnificent demands of survival of the Genuflexi people? What are you going to say today? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] Nothing, mute as it befits those who are willing to sacrifice their conscience to questionable interests of part. If this measure could have been discussed, I would have asked the ministers of the magnificent: but when will you put an end to this post office? Every minister who arrives makes a competition, if there are no seats you scale in ranking and so today there are 300,000 waiting for a stabilization, acquired by competition, however. A plethora of people - I repeat: people - on whose sacrifices is speculated with the most powerful currency in this miserable political: the vote, the consensus. Leave yourself there in an indefinite expectation, within which you can continue to profit from the most biech political moral, as happens today, commodity exchange for improbable and insane reforms. These are not the country's priority reforms, especially not how reforms are done. Against the unions to which, accustomed to bargaining, if you offer 100,000 hirings ask you 150,000, otherwise what are they doing? Against parents, who have the wrong to be parents; against students, who - it is known - will always be against regardless; against oppositions that do not have at heart the fate of the country and against the minority of the PD who continues to exercise an autonomous thought and disturb the dreams of Senator Zanda who of the unique thought of President Renzi is the sacred vestal. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Here it is, the reform of the school: irrefutable mirror and hilarious emblem, I would say, of one who has become President of the Council forgetting to study. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u167	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure states: At the end of each session, the Assembly may decide, on a proposal from the President or at the request of the Government or eight Senators, in relation to situations which have occurred and are urgent, to include in the calendar topics not included in the programme. A very important fact has taken place today. There was the decision of the Constitutional Court that declared the constitutional illegitimacy of the wage freeze for employees of the public administration. Already tomorrow morning Minister Madia should come and report on what the Government intends to do following this sentence. Therefore, on behalf of the Group and the senators present (there are eight of us, Mr President: if you want me to draw up a list of names in writing, but the eight senators can also raise their hands), I would ask you to take the order of business that Mr Madia comes to report to the House tomorrow morning on the following acts. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u168	At the end of the sitting, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure you mentioned, we shall consider your proposal. [[Senator Crimes' protests.]] This kind of resolution is being held at the end of the session, Senator Crimes. Check the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u171	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, what Senator Crimi has just requested deserves the utmost attention and, as is the case in the Rules of Procedure, since you know very well that this is an endless sitting, the subject can be immediately resolved and included in the timetable. As required by the Rules of Procedure, it must be the House that speaks and not the President. Therefore, I support Senator Crimi's request and ask her, in this sense, to schedule tomorrow morning, at the opening of the sitting, a item on the agenda with the arrival of Minister Madia to report on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u172	The proposal will be put to the vote at the end of the sitting, as required by the Rules of Procedure. CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, the sitting does not have closing hours! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Rules of Procedure are clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u175	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I can also speak later but it is clear to everyone that this sitting, as you know perfectly well, does not have closing hours. Therefore, the request made in accordance with Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure seems absolutely appropriate. In fact, we saw, during the judgment on pensions, a sort of villainy of the Council itself. At this point, since the Council said that the judgment is not retroactive, but will certainly apply from now on and will have an impact in general also on the same law of stability and, therefore, on the public accounts, we too would like to have the opportunity to decide at this time, by the Assembly, that tomorrow morning may come to report Minister Madia. And since there is no timetable for the closure of the proceedings as for other sittings, but there is an all-out procedure, I believe that the Rules of Procedure are clear from this point of view. At the very moment when the proposal is put forward, precisely because of this particular situation, it must be put to the vote of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u176	Thank you for your comment. I confirm that the end of the sitting coincides with the end of the general debate. There are still a few speeches, and as the Rules of Procedure provide, at the end of the sitting, which will end because the speeches are running out, we will be able to examine the request. It is not rejected, but accepted in accordance with the rules laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u177	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u178	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary, the decision to put trust in the school bill is an act of empire, it is a new slap in Parliament. Not only do we say that of the League or the other oppositions, but also authoritative representatives of the PD. On the other hand, the gag was clear from the warnings, indeed from the real blackmails, of Renzi of the last days. Or 100,000 teachers hired, however not all since 15 September, or only 22,000-23,000 of the turnover! Here, then, the goal of achieving the good school to make the country grow (this is the dossier full of good intentions that will remain such on paper), has replaced the objective of creating a sort of employment office that, if on the one hand proceeds to make mass recruitment, a sort of sanatoria without a necessary certification of skills, on the other hand goes to worsen the precarious state of many. In fact, tens of thousands of teachers who do not fall into the 100,000 lucky (we are also talking about forty-year-olds, fifty-year-olds, for example, the eligible of the 2012 competition, of the qualified PAS and TFA) will find themselves without the slightest guarantees, that is, in absolute darkness! However, we understand Renzi's decision to put on the gag. After the blow of the PD to the last administrative and nightmares of the evil of capital mafia, precisely with the school bill there was the will of the Premier to return to the formula of Renzi 1, the decision-maker, that of the muscular challenge, in the illusion of returning to the successes and consents of the first period of government. This, however, will never happen! The phase of the decline has been taken and is irreversible, with a PD increasingly torn apart. Therefore, he was preoccupied with the protests of the oppositions, whistling at the snares of the internal minorities, but above all ignoring the discontent of the school world (i.e. teachers, parents and students who remain unheard), he preferred to pull straight. This umpteenth confidence is not a sign of an authoritative Premier, but is an authoritarian act, but it is also a clear sign of weakness and fear, confirmed in these hours by the reverse on the reform of the code of games and that of the land registry. This weakness of the Premier is aggravated also by the suspension of De Luca in Campania, a mess in which you of the PD have gotten into. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] On the merits of the bill, dear colleague Marcucci (rapporteur deposed of the measure), the maxi amendment cannot contain the summary of the debate held in the country and in Parliament, because the debate has been abruptly and violently interrupted. The eight white delegations aren't good. We in the North League are not happy that the government, without involving Parliament, can decide to follow the lines of the World Health Organization on the sexual education of children or on the principles that are spreading more and more in schools, linked to the so-called gender culture. It is very risky the direct call of teachers from the manager, especially in certain areas of the country where there will be recruitment of clientele type, rather than according to the skills. School leaders are then given a huge power that makes the risk that they may be distorted. There is a lack of a guarantee body to monitor their work: in fact, we do not always find enlightened people in the managers. We also believe that excessive power cannot be given without specifying the need for the same manager to be permeated and possess a culture of the distribution of responsibility to his collaborators. Here we are creating the basis for the creation of isolation positions, if not of opposition between the manager and the staff of the school. Moreover, the bill thinks too much of the container, but touches little or no substance, that is the centrality of the school that is represented by the student. Little or nothing says about how to set up teaching work; little or nothing says about how to do school for all the pupils that a teacher has in the class, who have different peculiarities and therefore different needs, such as the disabled. With the bill under consideration, students will be far from protagonists; they will be victims! I'm going to conclude. Renzi on May 14, making the phenomenon in shirt sleeves in front of the blackboard, exalted the concepts of school autonomy and merit as innovative elements of the reform. However, he did not realize that already today, within schools, autonomy can be exercised: it has existed since 1999 with the decree of the President of the Republic n. 275. Why, then, flag a new school autonomy? The credit can already be encouraged, because even today the system figures can be paid by the institution fund. Again, a law is already in force. This is to say that the Italian school is not at prehistory, as Renzi wanted to make believe [[Applause from Senator Mussini]] , and that today's school is critical, but also valuable elements, which are based on the commitment of the employees who work there, on which always depends the success of the various reforms that have followed. These are workers who have been ignored here and who will have to prepare to apply to the worst. The North League will vote no to the confidence and this work of dismantling the public school, which risks being reduced to a plurality of small companies under the orders of the principal-sheriff on duty. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Bignami and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u181	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to point out the need for a correction: while Senator Arrigoni has spoken, the underbelly in the video video recorded the words "Senator Loredana De Petris" (Senator Loredana De Petris).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u182	She intervenes too much and deborders, senator, so she assumes other appearances: speak less, so there will be less underbelly. We take note of that, but the viewers will have noticed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u183	I ask you to speak on the order of business, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u184	You mean yours? You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u185	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I have to repeat the surgery to get the correct subtitling of the name. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u186	We're gonna spread a proper video, and I'm gonna ask the underbelievers to check it out. Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u187	Mr President, when I say that I am happy to speak on this subject, I would like to start from a note made by President Marcucci during his speech, although not entirely verbalized. He stressed the fact that this measure put in place the Government's concern to intervene on the subject of school, stressing that this would never have been done before. In fact, it is enough to look at the report of the European Commission, which is normally drawn up on the subjects of education, to see how Italy nominally both the country and in the last twenty years has done several times the reform of the school: the Berlinguer reform; the Moratti reform; the Fioroni reform; the Gelmini reform. We have called "reform" all the measures that have crossed the path and the destiny of our education system and I believe that perhaps it would help us to really understand the scope of what we will vote tomorrow to understand from what real question, concerning the destiny of a generation and education, the contents of the so-called "good school" start. In fact, the document published on 3 September last for the launch of the public consultation, presented an index of six chapters, synthesized in 12 points qualifying the reform of the national system of education provided by the government. There is very little left of all this, for one simple reason: the contingent occasion, the real motivation that drives us today to arrange for this debate until now late and tomorrow forces us to trust is the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union on Italy's abuse of the repetition of time contracts beyond 36 months, which is also mentioned in that document, paragraph 1.6. A compulsory choice, from which the need to build a complex system seems to descend and able to stabilize the newly hired staff. Let me be clear: this operation will turn into Exodus 2, revenge. The number of appeals that will be made regarding the strategies adopted by the Government to put in place the precarious will be the tombstone on this so-called reform measure. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] But in order to remain on the subject, before filling our mouths with reform, let us try to understand what is left of the design of the good school. Has the teacher's career progressed? No, it's gone. Everything will still be defined by the mechanism of seniority. Has the career remained on merit, that is, the one that gets awarded time by time, if you look at how it grows? No, it is replaced by an annual prize, which is also small, to be distributed among teachers according to the judgement of the school manager. It is an approach, therefore, totally approximate, which does not make the whole sense of what career means to a teacher. Let us come to the question of evaluation. I would like us to reflect on the evaluation and not because it is contrary to the involvement of families and pupils, but because I believe that a distinction must be made between the evaluation and the satisfaction of the customer, what the Anglo-Saxons call customer satisfaction and that, when you get on board an aircraft of Alitalia, it translates into the fact that they put in your hand a questionnaire and is asked to you, customer, to express your opinion on the service you receive. This cannot be the evaluation of the teaching skills of the teacher for a simple reason: the assessment of the ability of an aircraft to fly is made by an entity that enrolls, if necessary, that aircraft on a blacklist and prevents it from flying. No one can ask a boy to determine if his teacher is able to teach [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] Just as no one asks a person who goes to prison to determine whether the judge's abilities have produced a judgment according to the merit of justice and law. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] And no one asks a patient for the surgeon's credit, linking the surgeon's ability to provide for the patient's need to the patient's liking. That's the truth. This is demagogy. It is not capable of providing for an evaluation system. What's more, it takes a third party to do the evaluation. The INVALSI for years has been an instrument in the hands of the leaders of the Ministry. It hasn't changed the relationship between who the evaluation has to do and who has to receive it, as well as being anchored to the mode completely detached from reality. The possibility of entering into the merit of school events, through people who have a remarkable distance from the events of the school but are able to make a contribution of knowledge and merit, remains the indispensable problem of evaluation in the field of school. But it is not over, because much more than what was promised in the document called good school has already been lost in the passage to the House. And it was enough to come to the bone of the matter. The only thing that interests us about the measure we are voting on tomorrow morning is a very trivial issue: the stabilization of a number of precarious teachers, on which we invent the most absurd alchemies to decide who has priority, in order to remedy in this way a problem that we have, just like those that the Constitutional Court continues to propose to us, that sometimes tries to adjust the shooting so as not to put under the government with even greater capacity than the minority in this Parliament is able to do. But the substance is that: we respond to a peripheral problem. We are not wondering what a new school is for and how it can actually bring objective improvements to the system. We lack a culture of horizontal subsidiarity that is able to enhance the territory and to propose ourselves as actors of the scenario of the educational process to the point that everything that is marginalized, and that was also present in the original text, will no longer be recovered. And it was not recovered by the reforms Berlinguer, Moratti, Fioroni and Gelmini and perhaps it was clarified in the same meetings proposed by the then minister Berlinguer, when, approved the law of autonomy, in the confrontation made with teachers and managers, an executive of the Ministry even more clarified in that circumstance how autonomy worked. It was said not to worry, not to ask too many questions and that an appropriate ministerial circular would clarify everything. I mean, there's more to centralism. There is a weakening of autonomy. There is a lack of looking at the overall need of the system to tie schools to the territory and make sure that school networks can make custom curricula for the needs of children living in that territory. And without this capacity we will continue to re-propose the difficulties of all time. Therefore, the problem is essentially not to be against or in favour of this measure, but to understand that it has remained in the logic of what it has failed in the past and that it will ultimately insist and affect only the issue of the resolution of recruitment. Within this perspective I would really expect a step forward in the proposal that will be presented to us tomorrow by the Government through the maxi amendment. I pretend I didn't see what we've seen so far. In other words, I pretend that there is a real possibility that tomorrow we will be presented with an innovative text which, apart from the criticisms made by Mr Malan on the excessive use of English-speaking terms, can really bring a word of novelty. Perhaps there might be an evocative, a more capable of achieving results in a short time, a word like "shish". How about this word? [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, MpA, NPSI, PpI, IdV, VGF, FV)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u188	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u189	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the five minutes at my disposal are also free of additional burdens for the State. Of course, dear Renzi, this is the mantra that occurs in your parliamentary acts without additional burdens for the State. But tell us how to reform the school without providing additional burdens for the state - translated - without investment? But we don't have a rich school, a wealthy school. We've had a school impoverished for years and years of cutting, despite what you profess on TV. In fact, you're very good at masking the truth, saying what you add, but you never say what you took away from us. They're all laodole mirrors. You started from renzusconism and used us to media shows, learning from him and choosing as places of politics TV studios and virtual social media squares, rather than Parliament's classrooms, to the point that we senators are forced to follow Vespa, Mentana, the journalist on duty to know what will be here tomorrow. Shame! We should be the cradle of legislative power and Galbani is here every day. Every day is Galbani, because Galbani means trust! [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Bulgarelli]] But the truth is that the renzusconi has got to hold on to you. You're heading for the renzipoleon, the renzipoleonism. Napoleon shares the indisputable communicative talent, but also the desire for power and these methodologies. In fact, it is the method that we talk about and not so much about the content, even the content. But this method is not democracy. That's more than that. Napoleon had started with the idea of spreading the ideals of the French revolution throughout the world, but then his immense self-centeredness transformed the general into an emperor, focusing power on himself. And you on my right wake up, because that's what he's doing. Like him, you, Renzi, are leading us towards tyranny, and yet another question of trust that will be placed in this House is nothing more than proof. What about you? Just a flock of lost sheep. I know you, I know you in person. I know some of you don't agree, and we've also confided in it a few times, joking. The time has come, however, to say enough, to say enough to these methodologies. Have the courage of your ideas, so he knows these things and next time you won't have the place here anymore. Have the courage of your ideas. Raise your heads. You perform an act of discernment, not obedience. Don't say yes to him today would make him lose control. I don't know if we're already at the point of no return. And before it's late, defend democracy, start with school, that school that has freely trained you and brought you here. What about liberal principles: liberté, égalité, fraternité? Where'd they go? The freedom you have exists only to the extent of saying yes to what Renzi thinks. Fraternity shatters in the contrast that you have not been able to heal between the different categories of qualified of the school, who asked to be hired, and you created a war between the poor. Equality will disappear with the direct call of teachers, creating schools of series A and of series B. I expected more, my dear scraper. You're smashing everything good in school. You are breaking the freedom of teaching, creating injustices and undermining the foundations of our education. We are not talking about how you dealt with the subject of the school integration of disabled people: only a few lines with which you hand over a virtually blank delegation to the Government, postponing the resolution of the problem and violating articles of the Constitution. That's not what disabled people's associations are asking for. That is not what the thousands of families, who feel a distant state, are asking you, and often this state has not been there. These parents only demand respect for constitutional principles. They call for better school integration of their children. They ask that it be guaranteed: the continuity of teaching, the allocation of support teachers from the first day of school, trained and specialized teachers. Support is not your employment office. Training, merit and competence should have been the cornerstones of the measure. On March 9, 2014, you, Renzi, guest of Fabio Fazio in the program "What a time it does," said: The date is what makes the difference between a dream and a project. Here, let's mark today's date, because our dream ends and begins not a project, but our nightmare. Don't worry though, Mr. Renzipoleone, I will be here and I will mark this date, because today the school will be your Waterloo. [[Applause from Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u190	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u191	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text we are dealing with has been the subject of lengthy discussions in and out of the parliamentary classrooms, and has undergone a long process in the House, where numerous amendments have been made, which have certainly made the bill much more complex - perhaps almost too much - and have collected some of the evidence reported by the many categories involved in the school world. However, they have left a text quite complex and not without criticality. The hope was that these criticalities could find a margin for further comparison and correction in the passage to the Senate, comparison that, unfortunately, was very reduced, partly due to the need to close the recruitment chapter, giving time to the school offices to reorganize the staff. The reduction in time to deal with the reform has had an impact on both the hearings and the timing of the submission, evaluation and discussion of the amendments. This fact is defining, precisely in the last few days, a race against time, with the result of damaging a fundamental principle of our work: the parliamentary debate. I would point out that I do not want to make an ideological speech on these issues, and it is not even my modus operandi. I would much rather go into the matter and discuss it. That is why I regret the timing that forces us to fight downwards, in a few respects, on a fundamental subject such as school. I immediately reiterated my support for the idea that the Italian school should be reformed, in order to return to it in the first place an operational agility, which is a quality that is being lost. In this sense, we share many aspects worthy of the reform, from the substantial allocation of financial resources to the assumption of precarious people, to the valorization of autonomy. Nor are the tools - finally - for teacher training, the enhancement - finally also in this case - of the confrontation with the world of work and with the territory and the strengthening of technical tools. And it is not secondary either the principle of full freedom of education, declined through the - albeit limited - deduction of the expenses incurred by families for enrollment in equal schools. This is a principle that has long deserved a valorization, especially if we consider with honesty the fact that, in some areas of school education, equal schools support and supply the state in an irreplaceable way. That is why the principle is good, but there are few resources to carry it out and we hope that they can be expanded later, in order to give ample scope to this rule. In addition to all this, however, crucial issues remain and some already emerge in the valorization of school autonomy, which - it is clear - we strongly defend, for a fully functional school. On autonomy, the bill sets out a series of initiatives, beginning with the strengthening of the headmaster's figure, which must not be demonized at all, as has been attempted with often ideological approaches to the problem. This does not mean that the principal must be given a superpower, but a full autonomy necessary for a strong managerial figure. It is clear that it is not easy to articulate this figure, even in the context of discussion and dispute that has been created, where the managing figure opposes freedom of teaching. But this is also due to the fact that management and training responsibilities have been superimposed. A lot has been said about this, also because of the direct call, which actually remains a critical aspect, since it is not based on objective and transparent parameters; parameters that can be given only by the score that candidates have in the rankings of belonging. And this doesn't mean that only the score should be considered, but it could and should have been added to the enhancement of the curriculum. My colleagues who have spoken so far have dealt with many of the problems that remain in the text and that I certainly do not want to repeat. However, I must point out other critical points in the vision that this reform offers regarding the recruitment of teachers. I understand very well and I agree that the first recruitment channel is the GAE and the rankings of the 2012 competition. That's all right. But the school has gone on in all these years also through other precarious ones that, in the assumption plan, are considered invisible. I am referring to the teachers of the second class of the school rankings, PAS, TFA, degrees in primary education sciences, master's degrees. These have allowed the school to continue for years, through temporary supplements, although they are not included in the run-up rankings (GAE). I did not ask much: our proposal for common sense was to provide for a further phase, in addition to those envisaged for recruitment, that would enable the posts left vacant or available to be filled, through the second group of institutions. Or, alternatively, a multi-annual plan for the second band was proposed. Or again, it was proposed that the GAEs should be left open, inserting an additional band where all the invisibles I was talking about should be brought together. I have heard, colleagues, even in the House, say that this was not possible, because TFA and PAS have no competitive value. It is a speech that frankly does not make sense, because in the AGE there are not only teachers with a competitive title. And I remember that the AGEs, in recent years, have been reopened in order to include this or that particular one of teachers, gradually licensed. I also remember that there are classes of teaching - such as the so-called Table C of technical-practical teachers - already exhausted, for which there are no teachers available in the AGE, nor in the rankings of the competition. They are teachers who have been covering vacancies and vacancies for years, who are now enabled via PAS or TFA and are in the second school bracket. These teachers will be told this year: You serve for another year because I don't have who to hire and next year you do a contest. This speech has no meaning. I have proposed common sense amendments to resolve these problems, taking into account the history of the school. Of course, there is a competition for titles and exams where the titles, rating and service, will be evaluated as additional score. It's an element, but minimal. And, among other things, in this additional assessment remain critical because, in the definition of the qualifying titles, we refer only to the TFA, leaving out those paths that were established by the same ministerial decree, that is the PAS. The two routes cannot be distinguished. They were established through the same Ministerial Decree No 249 of 2010. We asked that at least both ratings be included in the valorization, recalling the ministerial decree and also giving greater harmony to the norm. This is clearly a downward negotiation in relation to the many issues I have already listed. But I hope and expect the government to listen to this need. A further critical issue is the three-year assignment of teaching, which - it is said - is renewed provided in accordance with autonomy. The wording has improved compared to the original, but the problem remains, because three-year assignment means, potentially... [[Recalls of the President]] . .less didactic continuity, less closeness and synergy of the teaching group of work, unstable working climate because the teacher in the third year does not know if it will be renewed or will go elsewhere. It may be, but it may not be. And this, combined with the principle of rotation of school leaders, makes everything even more critical. The reform then articulates a very valid and interesting principle that is openness to the territory, a key element of a good educational project, which must take into account the social context. Yet, there is very little talk of students, recipients of the educational project. And there is hardly any mention of that fundamental school-family alliance, which is the basis of a functional and effective educational project. The informed consensus on teaching proposals relating to extracurricular and educational subjects is not mentioned at all. If you will allow me, Mr President, I shall add the final remarks to the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u192	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u193	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u194	Mr President, the school is our passport for the future, because tomorrow belongs to those who are preparing to face it today. This is a famous phrase of Malcolm X. So, because today we are talking about those who will be our future and the place where they should be trained, I want to tell you about our vision of innovative school, that vision that in this bill - I'm sorry - is not there. A real innovative school for us would be a safe school from the point of view of construction; a healthy school, where students are not forced, as in the school "Leonardo da Vinci" in Florence, not to run or not to play in order not to raise asbestos fibres, dangerous, harmful, harmful to their health. This is an innovative school. An innovative school is a school that has spaces suitable for new ways of doing school, new educational models, where students are not relegated behind benches, for hours and hours, to castrate their creativity, their drive. The innovative school is the school where pupils are taught to collaborate; it teaches the principle that no one must remain behind. And the fact that no one is left behind doesn't preclude talents being valued. Everyone is taught that their personal evolution and development can go hand in hand with the development and evolution of others, in a context of harmony and not of sterile market competition. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What we want is a school that comes out of the school, that comes out of those walls, that gives the students the opportunity to experience the world, but not to experience it in a sterile alternation school-work that would want them slaves to the logics of the market, according to which those born in a territory where footwear is made become a good labourer inside the shoemakers. We don't want this. It's Middle Ages stuff, not innovative school stuff. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We want schools where teachers are valued and motivated to best express their social function, and not blackmailed teachers, because every three years their assignment will be renewed by a school manager who will then have the power to decide their future. Teachers valued, therefore, teachers evaluated. Teachers aren't afraid to be evaluated, gentlemen. But, in order to be evaluated, we must put ourselves in a position to be evaluated. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You have to have the tools to be good teachers, and only then can you be evaluated. But evaluate to do what? To punish? No. In our opinion, the evaluation must be aimed at improvement, at its own evolution as teachers. That should be the assessment. I am horrified by the words of some colleagues who say that schools have become a social shock absorber, a place where teachers park themselves because they know that they will not be evaluated and because they are afraid of being fired. It's horrifying to hear these words in here. [[Comments from Senator Bottici.]] We would like schools where teachers feel free and not slaves of a school manager; they feel not to have to please the school manager but free to teach, to teach the plurality of thought, free to transform mirrors into windows - as Harris said - because a mirror reflects our image and that's it; a window opens us a vision of the world, opens our minds. And in school reform, in Renzi's good school - I'm starting to speak English too and maybe the Premier finally listens to me - all this stuff isn't there. In Renzi's good school, monocratic thinking creeps into schools. There is a school manager who defines the plan of the training offer and, therefore, what will be taught within the extracurricular activities, and what will be given more weight or less weight within those provided by the ministerial programs. This is not good in a world that imposes on us the challenges that it imposes on us. We would like an innovative school where, within it, the classes are not chickens; classes with an adequate number of pupils, that allows teachers to carry out their social function, that is to follow the children, to dedicate themselves to them to evolve, to intercept their talents, to help them develop their inclinations, and not a teacher who becomes the keeper of a henhouse. We would like an innovative school where children with disabilities have a properly trained teacher; a school where classes for children with disabilities turn not into parking spaces, but into places where they can intercept and develop their potential. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami]] , to ensure that they are adults included in society, participate and can feel within themselves the pride of making their own contribution to the life of the community. We would also like pupils with disabilities to have the necessary assistants, because some of them are unable to do even the actions that seem trivial to us, such as going to the toilet [[Applause from Senators Centinario and Candiani.]] In a civil and democratic state these essential needs should be guaranteed to all in schools and it should be ensured that they are carried out with dignity and dignity, because this is a civil school, in a civil country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We would like an innovative school where teachers are not turbulent with a bonus of 500 euros per year: everyone knows very well that 500 euros per year are nothing to really form. We would like an innovative school that unlocks paychecks and pays teachers in line with European colleagues, as this reform looks to Europe. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Colleagues, our teachers are the least paid in Europe. Yet, they carry out their social function with great dignity. And we would also like teachers equipped and we would like the best to work not in elite schools, but in border schools, where there is more need to recover youth and intercept creativity and talents, which will make our adult class a class of excellence. In conclusion, we would like an innovative school and we do not give up, we do not comply with this school reform. We know that the school will find the energy and resources to continue to fight and rebel because - as it is written in the Talmud - the world can only be saved from the breath of the school. And we are all convinced that the school will send that breath on itself and free us from this obscene reform. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bignami and Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u195	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u196	Mr President, a bitter and controversial debate has taken place in this House, with tones and arguments of radical opposition. [[Comments of Senator Castaldi]] In the course of the debate, we heard accusations of the privatization of the school, of the companyization, of the annulment of the freedom of teaching, of the discrimination of the territories and of the dismantling of the public school. I don't want to be involved in this kind of discussion. The time will tell if those who predict catastrophes for the school will have been right - and actually they are not the first, even if then, however, this school we still want to defend - or who thinks, like us, that this law has started a complicated and difficult reform process, if you want also controversial, but not heretic with respect to the tradition of the Italian school and the constitutional dictation. I said "started," of course, because the path will be long. So many things that are needed are not in this bill, and there could not be, and they will have to follow. Never has school reform been done with one measure, but always with a set of actions and laws. And it will also be complicated and difficult, because there are no easy recipes, beyond the listing of the points of everything we want, and also because we have come from so many years of cuts and contradictory measures, a period from which sooner or later we will have to move on. For these reasons, I think that the contribution that the Italian political class had to make at this time and on this subject was to accompany the debate on the draft law with a different approach, with a more sober and concrete style, with the commitment to improve the texts and not to dissolve them and not to fuel a political conflict, which very often was more related to how the relationships of force after the regional elections moved, and in view of other political scenarios, than to the merit of the issues we are discussing. Certainly a close discussion on this subject was predictable and desirable, but the dialogue was too polarized and too conditioned by the general political battle. To a climate already overheated in the school, where legitimate and understandable concerns were added to corporate closures now old and no longer useful, but nobody speaks of them and from which no one distanced himself, a more conscious and useful political debate had to correspond - I would say even more selective and proactive - that offered to the protests in the country a new and positive outlet, and not the usual logic of block acceptance or rejection in block. The President of the Council has admitted that there have been limits of communication from the Government, and this has certainly not helped the smooth course of the measure. But all of us have put our own and above all those who have insisted on the destruction of the school, the attack on the Constitution, the death of democracy: these were the words that have often gone through the whole debate. I hope that there will be a new phase of discussion after the end of this affair. Everything doesn't actually end here: it's just the beginning of a new path. We will need proof of the responsibility of the entire political class, and I will be going back to the end on this point. On the merits, we have listened to everything and everything. I couldn't add much, and I'm not going to do it at this hour. I am just saying, in a nutshell, about the approach I have personally taken to give myself a more precise idea of the controversial issues. The main innovations that the bill introduces are the direct call of the school manager and the premiality for teachers. The direct call is certainly a delicate innovation that must be handled very carefully, but it is not a scandal, if we think that it already exists in our country, even in limited and experimental experiences and yet of quality, not at the margins of the system, but in the innovative heart of the system. In Italy the direct call is already made in some schools and I went to see and talk to those who do it. The reality is not that of a regression. There is a dialogue between those who ask to come to the school and the school manager who chooses, and this point also the bill recalls. The newcomer's community is taking charge with a tutor. There is no limitation of the freedom of teaching and one overcomes the arrival of random in schools, which is a limit that we have. I mean, there's no headmaster, and there's no slave teacher. There is also an organized dialogue, and those who already do so also give us suggestions that may be useful before they really begin. And so it is for the reward. I do not go into the matter, but this is the main concept. Among the criteria that will be used to evaluate the school manager is precisely the ability to make the community work. If he doesn't, he'll lose score too. This is the perspective that I propose, in conclusion: to see where you already do, to learn and to understand how you can improve. If we don't, we'll always stay still. I hope for a higher and more fruitful dialogue. I see a political and meritive space. The most controversial points of this bill will start in 2016-2017. We have a year to deepen, refine, simulate and talk to those who are already ahead. We ask the Government to take other initiatives, after the bill, to put in place the other proposals and find a way to reopen a comparison also on the contract, to give a recognition and to discuss more advanced forms of collaboration. So you can recover today's fracture and give new hopes to the world of school and to the country all. The center-left puts the school at the center of its project and puts resources in the school. And this is already a turning point. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u197	The general debate is closed. I shall refer you to another session following the examination of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u198	We proceed to the vote on the request, made by Senators Crimes, Candiani and De Petris and supported by the prescribed number of senators, to insert in the calendar of the proceedings of the Assembly an information of Minister Madia regarding the decision of the Constitutional Court on the salary blockade in the public employment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u199	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u200	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Colleagues, appreciate the circumstances, let's finish our work here.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u201	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-472.ana.u202	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 23.53 a.m.
