ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 14 May.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u4	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u10	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, this morning we met at the Convention on Civil Rights organized in Palazzo Giustiniani, in the Zuccari room, where I heard President Grasso mention his speech two years ago on the law against homophobia: for two years now we have heard the same things. Having been me first of all extremely cooperative, together with my Group, also on the draft law on civil unions of my colleague Cirinna, to whom we have given all possible support, I sincerely believe it is appropriate that the bill against homophobia, which has been bogged down in the Justice Commission for two years, should be unblocked. The draft law on civil unions, to which 4,000 amendments have been tabled by your NCD colleagues present here, who support the Government, and by Forza Italia, is also in the Commission. In view of the current state of things, I don't think it will have a very favorable iter, unless you apply the means that you have applied all the times that you considered important a bill, so you've moved on... MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, if you don't, I'm gonna make a mess. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, this intervention is not on the order of business. AIROLA (M5S). It is on the order of business of the House and the Commission, Madam President. Because you're making ads that don't follow real operations, then... PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, Senator Airola. I have to take your word for it, because you are not intervening on the order of business. [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u12	You have the right to do so. However, I repeat to everyone that we are not opening the debate on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u13	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, but the last time... AIROLA (M5S). It's on the order of business! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, the order of business has already been voted and decided. AIROLA (M5S). It's on the order of business! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Malan. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I remember that the last time there was a similar intervention on the order of business, this intervention was interrupted by the 5 Star Movement and President Lanzillotta supported this interruption by the 5 Star Movement. AIROLA (M5S). 4,000! Because it has made 4,000 amendments! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). From the moment, however, that the debate on the subject was opened, I must say that this morning, unfortunately, I was not surprised, but I confirmed my opinion that President Grasso has taken a full and uncritical stand on one side of a discussion of a draft law that is in progress. We know and are accustomed to the position taken by President Grasso, who is not the President of the Senate, but a part of the Senate. This time he did it once more, which further reduces his prestige and the prestige of his office. [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u14	That's enough now because everyone has their own lectures.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u15	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1345-B, already approved by the House of Deputies, as amended by the Senate and again amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteurs, Senators Albertini and Sollo, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Sollo. [[Brusio]] I invite colleagues to leave the space in front of Senator Sollo.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u16	Madam President, my report will be quite brief, because the measure is at the fourth reading and second to the Senate: it is therefore useless to repeat what we have already said at the previous reading in the Senate. Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are preparing to make the fourth and - hopefully - final reading of a measure expected by most public opinion for about twenty-one years, which will allow our country to take an important step forward in the protection of public goods, and therefore fundamental, such as the environment and the health of citizens. With its approval, today politics can say that it has assumed its own responsibilities, keeping the promises: promises made to the numerous associations that have called the campaign "Ecoreati" without changing a comma, first among all Legambiente and Libera, that for years, with their work on the territories, tell us what environmental crime represents today in our country. These promises are made above all to the families of the victims of the damage caused by environmental disasters: the thought goes immediately to the so-called Land of fires, Casale Monferrato, Bussi and many other parts of the country. [[Brusio.]] I still try to talk: it's okay, it's okay. I am talking about politics because this measure is the result of three draft parliamentary laws, both by majority and by opposition, and shows how common work, in the Commission and in the House, allows us to provide those answers that the citizens are waiting for. For this reason, I would like to thank all my colleagues from the Environment and Justice Commissions, the Presidents and my co-rapporteur, because they understood that, in this Senate reading, we would put an end to the parliamentary ping pong and I am sure that they will not miss this opportunity so important by missing their support. With the approval of this bill we will also give a signal of discontinuity with respect to the past, punishing with an adequate sanction of particularly serious behaviours such as environmental pollution and environmental disaster. There will be time and way, later, to adjust the shot and perfect the law. I would also like to highlight the important measures introduced by the measure, some of which are the result of the work done in the Senate at second reading. In Book II of the Penal Code, Title VI-a ('Dei delitti contro l'ambiente') is introduced, which provides for cases of environmental pollution (Article 452-a), environmental disaster (Article 452-b), accidentous crimes against the environment (Article 452-c), trafficking and abandonment of highly radioactive material (Article 452-d), impediment to control (Article 452-e), aggravating circumstances (Article 452-f), industrious repentance (Article 452-g), confiscation (Article 452-novies) and restoration of the status of places (Article 452- decies). On the basis of the reformulation carried out by the Senate, environmental pollution is punished with the imprisonment from two to six years and with the fine from 10,000 to 100,000 euros, in the event that abusively causes the compromise or the lasting deterioration of the state of the water or the air or of extended or significant portions of soil or subsoil. The compromise or deterioration may relate to the ecosystem, to the biodiversity - including agricultural biodiversity - of the flora or fauna. The penalty shall be increased if the case relates to a protected or restricted natural area, or if it is produced to the detriment of protected animal or plant species. Anyone who is abusively causing an environmental disaster is punished with imprisonment from five to fifteen years. This case occurs in the event of irreversible alteration of the equilibrium of an ecosystem or in the event of alteration of the equilibrium of an ecosystem whose elimination is particularly costly and attainable only by exceptional measures or, finally, in the event of offense to the public safety determined with reference to the diffusion capacity of the harmful effects of the conduct. Even in the case of the environmental disaster, the damage of protected or restricted areas is an aggravating factor. If environmental pollution or environmental disaster are committed by fault, the penalties shall be reduced from one third to two thirds. Trafficking and abandonment of high radioactivity and ionizing radiation material is punishable by imprisonment from two to six years and fine from 10,000 to 100,000 euros. It aggravates the danger of soil damage or deterioration of water or air, as well as of the ecosystem and its biodiversity. It is an aggravating circumstance that criminal cases are brought into existence by a criminal association or by a mob association. In order to coordinate the investigations, the Prosecutor of the Republic informs the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor. In the event of active repentance, reductions in penalties are provided for in favour of the person who tries to prevent the criminal activity from causing greater damage or in the case where he provides for the safety, the reclamation and, where possible, the restoration of the status of the places. The judge shall in any case order the recovery or, if possible, the restoration of the status of the places to be borne by the sentenced person, including by confiscation of the property. In case of failure to clean up, recover and restore the status of the places, you incur the penalty of imprisonment from one to four years and the fine from 20,000 to 80,000 euros. With the start of the investigations for crimes against the environment, moreover, the Prosecutor of the Republic warns the Agency of the revenues, in order to make possible investigations and ex post interventions. In the event of administrative and criminal offences that have not caused damage or real danger to the environmental resources or protected landscapes, simplified penalties and criminal proceedings shall be adopted. We are here, at this second reading in the Senate that we could have already avoided the other time, because I said that, if that famous amendment on air gun had passed to the House, the provision would have been returned to the House. I now invite all my colleagues in the Senate, all those who care about the environment and who care about those who respect the laws in favour of the environment. Anyone who doesn't want this will continue to obstruct. Air gun's a good technique, and I said it last time. We must intervene against this technique, that is beyond doubt. But as I said last time, this is not the time and this is not the right bill to do so. We will certainly do so: the Government has made clear commitments to this in the Commission as well. For now we have lost a further month, to find ourselves in the starting situation in which we were four months ago, when we first approved the bill in the Senate. We could have ended this on that occasion. Now, ladies and gentlemen, those who really care about the environment vote for the measure as it stands. As you will see, there are some agendas against the air gun technique. Let us go ahead and for the first time in twenty-one years give an important signal: finally, in this parliamentary term there is a Parliament that legislates and makes laws and that does not just want to waste time. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u19	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, this is not the right time, but given Senator Sollo's words in advance that Amendment 1.10 to my first signature is withdrawn and transformed this evening, given the commitment of the Government, into a draft law of a single article, already communicated to the Offices. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u20	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u21	Madam President, given that I had already made a very detailed speech twice more, I will confirm in substance what I said earlier, perhaps simplifying it so as to be more listened to and better understood, assuming the full and personal responsibility of what I am saying in dissent from the Group and most of this House. In fact, I am firmly convinced that the draft law under consideration, as it is, with air gun or not, is an emeritus "ciofeca", not only useless compared to the purpose that is propaganda by many representatives of the majority, even authoritative (I don't know how much in good faith), badly written, not harmonised in the previous ones, but leading to greater damages, numerous and long disputes and unjust judgments with damage to defendants and actors. We should even introduce a specific eventual maliciousness for those who legislate so badly, creating potential discomfort, disturbance and economic damage of time and personnel for those who then incur judgments that will not be absolutely clear, but will be different and misunderstanding with respect to the legislation that we already have. In 1930 the current penal code already provided for environmental crimes. For example, in Article 434, under the heading 'Croll of construction or other arsonous disasters', there was talk of an infamous disaster. In this article of the penal code of 1930 it was said that "anyone, outside the anticipated cases of the previous articles, commits a fact directed to cause the collapse of a building or part of it or another disaster" - it is a very generic, but very large, diction in which it could be inserted - "is punished, if from the fact comes danger to public safety, with the imprisonment from one to five years. The sentence is of imprisonment from three to twelve years if the collapse or disaster occurs. Then there are other specifics, for example, Article 439 deals with water poisoning and says that if the death of anyone results in life imprisonment. Therefore, the media campaign to say that so far there has been no mention of environmental crimes in the penal code is not true. It would have been to be perfected, that is true, but it is also true that so many environmental crimes do not find the match in guilt, practically the person responsible is not condemned. Then we wonder what the blame is. What causes so many crimes to remain open, despite the provisions contained in the single environmental text (TUA), which has transposed all the European directives and which already lays down the principle that polluters pay? Do we really think that turning a crime punished with a very high amount of infringement into a crime really has a greater effect on the protection of the environment and people? Are we sure that lengthening prescription times will speed up processes? This is an oxymoron to me. The culprit would have every interest in postponing and so would the law firm that assists him, because a long trial also involves a high economic yield and therefore I am not surprised that this law has been solicited by so many law firms. Think of what it's like to keep a trial open for even 20 years and keep land clean for the same period. With this general law, there are also many judges: there are good judges, but there are also corrupt judges. There has been so much talk, even in these last days, of the adverb "abusely" but the problem is that the terms of how and how are not clarified, the damage is not clear and the relevant fact is not clearly circumscribed. In the face of such general and arbitrary rules, judges therefore have the possibility of doing good and bad time. I wonder whether much of the current situation is due not to the lack of laws, but to the conduct and capacity of many investigative magistrates, even famous, who, for example, wrong the head of charge, as has already happened. [[Applause from Senator Malan]] There has been a very serious case, of which no one has been scandalized, so there has not been taken as head of charge a very clear manslaughter multiple aggravated, pursuant to Article 589 of the penal code, perhaps associated with serious personal injuries, pursuant to Article 583 of the penal code, even very serious injuries for those who were ill for example of mesothelioma, but were not yet dead, pursuant to Article 590 of the penal code, to which to add the malicious omission of caution, pursuant to Article 437 of the penal code. If a magistrate, faced with the possibility of taking these charges, beautiful clear, verified, real and proven, insists with a head of indictment pursuant to Article 484 of the penal code, which had already fallen into prescription, what are we surprised about? And if, on second thought, he reiterates the accusation and speaks of the voluntary murder of 1,800 people, I think that here too we will find ourselves again - because the foundation, as has been said, is not the principle of law, but the fact - before another sentence of the Cassation that will unfortunately be to the disadvantage of the victims. Then I wonder, why speculate on the voluntary murder of 1,800 people? Even Rambo wasn't there! It is strange that no one thinks of asking for an opinion on this, for example, from the Supreme Council of the judiciary, because all this doing free and questionable greatly damages the image of the investigative judiciary. I also realise that we are faced with a very difficult situation, in which many regional authorities, who should be the contact person for environmental measurements and whatever else, do not have the right skills to define and direct investigations and contents. In some surveys, for example, we talk about plants that can biophytodepurate the soils, absorbing some heavy metals, up to beyond the toxic doses for the plant itself. Congratulations to the plants, which can absorb so much, but certainly - we studied it in the elementary schools: it is not necessary to be ultra-expert technicians - it is known that the plant absorbs water with dissolved mineral salts and therefore only some metals, such as lead and cadmium. In Europe, in fact, only those metals are monitored in plants, because even in a soil polluted by aromatic polycyclic hydrocarbons (IPA), dioxins and polychlorinatedbiphenyls (PCBs), which are certainly not water-soluble, plants will never be able to absorb these fat-soluble substances as well. If these substances were fat-soluble they would dissolve in the waters and we would not have problems of harbour sediments, lakes or in river beds. What are we complaining about? What do we want to solve if we are in the presence of a gang of ignorant self-referencers who do not know what they are talking about and even mock the people who rightly have the right to live in a healthy environment? The environment has the right to be protected. We have to say things the way they are. Not to mention the Land of Fires. This was the scenery of the scenes, but not because they are not polluted areas and not because Campania does not have the right to be Campania felix and not because we do not have to do everything to protect the environment, but I see very bad faith. One cannot classify a vast territory with completely different realities and make it one. Since the surveys were to start from orthophotos and earth movements, according to the indications given by the Regions and on the indication of the so-called decree Terra dei fioco, I wonder: can you realize that perhaps the earth movement can be a common agricultural practice of the practices that are used in agriculture and forestry? What's more serious is that this bill doesn't make any difference between the ecomafioso, who certainly doesn't care about having more pains, because he will know how to handle them, and a common citizen. I would like to give an example for everyone, that of the owner of a van that crosses the highway and casually, carrying, for example, naphtha, suffers damage. Maybe this person bought the truck with a mortgage of 200,000 euros, which spills and pours naphtha into the field below where the farmer with the sheep is. So, this person, besides losing his job, will he have to clean up and be equated with an eco-mafia? That's what we can do. There would be many examples to do, but the thing that scandalizes the most is this rule far from reality and I repeat what I said last time. If we wanted to improve legislation, we had the opportunity to do so by punctually intervening in the single environmental text (TUA) by increasing the penalties and detailing what was missing in the penal code. It was not intended to do so intentionally to make so many sparkling effects, but to do nothing - in practice -. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Romans Maurizio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u22	Senator Vaccari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate here what I said during the debate in the Committees on Justice and the Environment last week and to recall what was already said during the second reading of the measure. I am doing this because nothing is obvious on these issues, let alone repeating the reasons for a political choice without whether or not. I say it without reluctance. The final approval of the draft law to the House was certainly preferable, but the change made on the air gun cannot diminish the historical scope of the choice that we are going to make. The agenda that the PD presented to the House and the Senate, with which the Government engages itself in a serious verification of the effects of this technique and to be consequent on the measures to be taken, say the commitment with which we have tried to accompany the approval of this measure quickly. Not only that. The approval yesterday in the Council of Ministers of the legislative decree implementing the European directive on the assessment of the environmental impact of offshore installations represents the guarantee to avoid the granting of authorizations to the use of the air gun without elements of information and precaution. By daringly using a biblical similitude, it is a bit like we do not see the beam but only the straw and all this would not recognize the merit of this Assembly and of the two Commissions involved for having contributed during the second reading to greatly improve the provision by collecting requests coming from several parts. Here, as in the House, the PD will vote with great conviction and satisfaction for having strongly wanted it. This will allow our country to make a significant change, filling a legislative vacuum expected for twenty-one years, but also clearly indicating what will want to be the model of development that we imagine for the coming years. Up to now, in fact, our country has had criminal legislation to protect the environment completely inadequate, of a substantially contrary nature, based on the old approach that has always recognized the reasons of the economy leaving out the environmental, social and health costs. The introduction of environmental crimes into the penal code is, instead, a reform of civilization, legal and ethical. After today we will be able to declare the end of the season in which the environment was considered as an endless good. They will remember how it took the great environmental disasters of the 1980s to increase a new environmental awareness, reaching the constitution of the Ministry of the Environment in 1986 and the birth of the great associations and environmental movements and, from there, to the definition of a legislation that, on several occasions, completely revolutionized the relationship between economy, environment and health. Today we will make, although in serious and guilty delay, a second and decisive step: to introduce the crimes against the environment in the penal code, which does not only mean to pass from today's violations to the prison of tomorrow, but to raise a high and resistant embankment to fight the lawlessness in the environmental field, which many deaths unfortunately has sown and many indelible signs on the territory and the landscape has left. Let us all think of the land of fires, and of those families that have lost their loved ones, including many children, because of the consequences of pollution done on the ground, air and water from camorra, unscrupulous entrepreneurs and dignity, of the North and the South, and some local administrators who are visually impaired. It was not enough the commitment of President Napolitano and the choice of the Government, made with decree-law n. 136 of 2013, to stop the phenomenon, but undoubtedly it was a very strong signal, towards organized criminals and honest citizens, of a presence and a will of the State to take hold of the situation in order to change it radically. Today that same Parliament, beyond some accumulated delay, of which the responsibilities and attempts of instrumentalization for a little'more visibility, once again is charged its share of responsibility as ruling class of this country, paying back that land and all the other parts of our territory that await justice for what happened to them, because of a system of widespread malpractice and illegality or more simply because of individual irresponsible enterprises to allow those communities to come back to believe in the future, in order to succeed in starting the work of reclamation, rehabilitation and ecological conversion of polluted sites. The data - we know - speak clearly: from the report Ecomafia 2014 emerges a picture of alarming environmental lawlessness; those same data of lawlessness tell us that, in 2014, there was a decrease of the confirmed crimes of 14 percent, but if numerically decrease the crimes, increase the danger, redesigning the geography of the environmental crime. These are data that do not harm only the environment and ecosystems of our beautiful country, but undermine to the foundations the economy of so many territories, because to take advantage of this situation of illegality, pollution and disaster are those companies that are most unscrupulous, colluded with the evil and the organized criminality, and not those innovative ones, that respect not without difficulty the rules, that compete on the global markets. The exploitation of the environment goes to the mafias at every latitude, because it guarantees high revenues in different sectors, and to achieve them they are willing to do anything, even to endanger the lives of citizens. If we want to help and support other businesses to protect the territory and those who live there and honestly administer it, we need this new good law. I want to say this with calmness but also with clarity to my Mediterranean president of Confindustria Squinzi: these measures will not penalise at all the entire Italian industrial system - rest assured - but they will help and reward instead that part of this system that in recent years has chosen social responsibility towards the territory and the environment, as values added to their products, and will support those who want to convert to this new ethics. Of course, in order to make the new measures even more effective, we will have to work to ensure that the reform of the control system, the environmental agencies and the ISPRA will also come to this House very soon, to the attention of our Environment Commission today. Just as we will have to move quickly towards a simplification of legislation that reduces the margin of discretion and uncertainty of the public administration, the judiciary and the law enforcement agencies. Only in this way will we put our country in a position to be modern, profoundly European, indicating also a more sustainable line of economic development: the environment, that is, not only as the main set of common goods to be protected, guarded and delivered to the improved posterity, but as an important opportunity to set up a new development based on the culture of renewable resources and a new consciousness of the limit of human action. For these cultural and ethical reasons too, today we are giving rise to a significant breakthrough through the introduction of four new environmental crimes. For this reason I would like to thank once again the work done by rapporteurs Sollo and Albertini, the Ministry of Justice in the people of Minister Orlando and Undersecretary Ferri, the Minister of the Environment Galletti, as well as the Justice and Environment Commissions, starting with the two Presidents. Finally, I would like to recall how in the Senate, in the previous reading, an important part - the new Part VII of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006 - of the text that came out of the Chamber, which introduced into the environmental code the sanctioning discipline of administrative and criminal offences in the matter of environmental protection, in order to simplify life especially to healthy and honest enterprises and those that have invested in the green economy to get out of the crisis. Today there is a great and undeniable step forward, and I want to say it to those who so far, during this debate, wanted other changes in order to have the perfect law; to that the legislator must always tend, but I would like to point out that, compared to yesterday, the change is obvious. This is one of the important reforms that has been expected for many years and that will enable us to build a modern and effective legislative framework to protect the environment and at the same time the health of citizens. No loopholes and no tricks; but in the differences of position, inevitable on such a complex and delicate matter, it was found here and in the House a point of balance shared by most political forces. I hope that on the part of all of us today the sense of responsibility prevails and that we will proceed quickly to approve the bill as it is, withdrawing all the amendments and giving this country a law that has been waiting for too long: for twenty-one years. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u24	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today the draft law which has taken on the task of profoundly innovating the catalogue of crimes against the environment arrives in the Senate for the last reading. The draft law in question, which has the ambition to be entitled "Provisions on crimes against the environment," is itself a serious offense against the environment because it does not punish and sends acquitted all the defendants of the main trials for environmental crimes, which have already been dragging for years without certain judicial perspectives. It is certainly a crime, because it authorizes the devastating research practices of the oil companies that bomb with compressed air cannons the seabed in search of new deposits; although we have learned that now the Government is committed to abolish this technique, the indiscriminate use of air gun technology is literally devastating the entire ecosystem of the Adriatic. I would like to remind you: the underwater explosions caused by compressed air sound bombs around 250 decibels, fired in rapid sequence a few minutes from each other along lines of more than 300 kilometers, have already decimated the marine fauna of Abruzzo, Puglia, and Sicily, causing damage to the tissues, bleeding to the internal organs and serious injuries to the reproductive organs of cetaceans, turtles, fish and crustaceans of all kinds, which increasingly, if they do not die at once, lose the sense of orientation and end up agonizing on the most beautiful beaches of the Adriatic coast. Peschici, Vasto, Falconara and Cesenatico have already experienced this violence on the sea and thanks to the structure of this bill, if it is not withdrawn, they will see it repeated. It is the new frontier of underwater research, of which we ignore the harmful potential. Today's bill promotes this practice without the slightest moral scrupulousness, assigning oil speculation the primacy of values worthy of protection. But the real absurdity is that in the Senate we have already seen a motion tabled by Senator Tomaselli in April 2014, approved by a large majority, against geological surveys by oil companies in the Adriatic Sea. Mr Tomaselli, considering the proliferation of demands by many oil companies to carry out geological surveys using the airgun technique in the Adriatic, has even called for EU action to introduce a strict moratorium on these practices. It has motivated - and I quote - that research and drilling of hydrocarbons are undoubtedly a source of serious danger in the name of the protection of the sea and the ecosystem which, due to the characteristics of our sea (a closed sea, to look like a lake), are even more risky. I even remember a bill presented on March 25, 2013, signed by twenty senators from all sides, with the aim of pursuing environmental protection objectives at all costs and with stubbornness. So much consistency today is disarming. Article 40 of the Penal Code reads as follows: "Do not prevent an event, which has a legal obligation to prevent, is tantamount to causing it." But when are we faced with moral obligations what is our duty? Do we assume the same responsibility? I ask myself that, but I also ask you, ladies and gentlemen. We who here today, as legislators, are faced with obligations of a purely moral nature, are the only ones responsible for the consequences of our political choices and if we approve the bill as we read it, we will certainly be responsible for the damage that will result. We will be pointed out for not being able to protect the marine environment with all the true wealth it contains, ultimately damaging especially ourselves. Don't you pay for this, we also want to be blamed for guaranteeing impunity for environmental crimes? If that were the case, we would simply approve this bill as it comes to us today. But I do not believe that Parliament has been stripped of its indispensable legislative function, because it still retains the profound power of criticism which I exercise before you at the moment. I appeal to this indispensable faculty, in the depths of your moral and political conscience. I trust that I have not been the only one to realize that the addition of the adjective "irreversible" to the theme of environmental damage has automatically excluded from punishable all those damages not yet defined irreversible. But it is the very concept of irreversibleity that throws the entire ecosystem into the most absolute indeterminateness because what was previously a danger crime, today becomes a crime of event. It is not, ladies and gentlemen, the subtle distinction of a quibble, but a substantial slide of enormous magnitude, because environmental damage will not only have to occur fully and clearly, but will have to be classified as irreversible. How many reclamations are there between reversible and irreversible damage, how many years does it take to certify that the damage is definitive, and how many attempts? It is likely that a period of at least twice as long as that for the prescription of crimes that we now declare that we want to punish with certainty. We are well aware instead of having exiled the certainty of punishment beyond the boundaries of irreversibility. The fine dusts of asbestos, ionizing radiation and all the poisons that we still do not know well, when they will manifest their harmfulness and when will we know whether this is irreversible or not? What happened to the noble precautionary principle that informs the most advanced legal systems? Our children will serve our mistakes, and perhaps even their children. The cumbersome nature of the law empties the criminal sanction of its contents, because it states that there is crime only if there is a violation of administrative laws and even environmental regulations. It is, in fact, the creation of a blank criminal law, the content of which remains, however, obscure. Technical rules formulated in incomprehensible ways will hold hostage to the threshold of punishableness beyond any reasonableness. It is a criminal law that is already born unconstitutional, because it lacks one of the basic principles of the penal norm: the taxableness of the case. What will be the fate of the excess smoke process of the Porto Tolle oil plant? The Rovigo trial, on appeal, will see the substantial decriminalization of the crime that led to the conviction at first instance. What about all the other trials going on? This rule constitutes an immoral legal armistice, actually aimed at limiting prosecution, just as it proclaims the opposite. The ILVA trial in Taranto will also be guaranteed the impunity of those responsible, when, in light of the new concept of irreversibleity, all the accusations will fall. How will it be possible to demonstrate irreversible damage, when not even a reclamation has been attempted? Despite all the proclamations and all the commissioners appointed to date in Taranto, both in the Tamburi district and in all the other areas seriously affected by the emissions of the steel mills, there was not even a reclamation: that damage is therefore irreversible or not? It will not be possible to determine this even in a courtroom, if the instrument delivered into the hands of the magistrates is the law that we want to approve today. Colleagues senators, we must ask ourselves whether we are ready to restore intellectual independence and honesty to our role, voting without any conditioning to reject the bill that I have shown you to be senseless, or whether we want to use myopia finally approving it in the unacceptable current version, well aware of the damage it will soon produce. This choice, even today, belongs only to our consciences, to which I have directed my speech entirely, as I felt to do by listening to the full force of this political and moral responsibility for the good of our country. [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u26	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u27	Madam President, I will not extend because in the previous passage we have already discussed in great detail the many good aspects of this text and the need - needless to say - for our legal system to finally contain serious legislation worthy of being defined as environmental protection and against environmental crimes. I would like to devote the short time that I am allowed to try to clarify a point that has also been raised on social networks, but also in the debate, namely the criticism of the adverb "abusely" contained in the hypothesis of pollution crime and environmental disaster. I would like to point out to some environmentalists, mostly Apulian - I would like to clarify the point, because from Salento and Apulia the issues of Ilva and everything related to them make it compulsory for me to reassure my fellow citizens, my co-regionals and Italians all - that Parliament has tried to find the best solution; I believe that we have arrived, in building a punitive rule that counters the sacrosanct principle of taxivity of criminal law with a protection that becomes effective and does not leave loopholes to the polluters. Some people have censored the fact that the term "abusely" could be used, as it were, in order to avoid the punitive precept, and to be concretized in the violation of criminal or administrative rules; in particular, it is argued that, in view of the formal existence of an authorized title, a licence, an authorization and whatever else, the conscious polluter - and perhaps a little'smart - could take advantage of it to find large spaces of non punishableness. It is worth remembering that the term 'abusefully', in the text we are considering today, has been conceived and identified as a broad term, aimed at containing even formal violations within it, that is, the possible absence of authorization titles, but certainly in a much more all-inclusive perspective, so much so as to be able to understand, by hypothesis, also a school case. Consider, for example, the case where the same title of an existing administrative nature is the result of an unlawful procedure in a broad sense, from the administrative or criminal point of view: in short, in the case of a licence, a DIA or any authorized title obtained perhaps by the corruption of an official public, the term "abusely" would allow to empty of preceptive force or of the criminal shield also the possible formal regularity of any type of authorization. With the term "abusely" we are of the idea that it will be possible to make an overall assessment of the conduct in relation to all legal rules and principles. Let us remember that, in the previous version, the violation of norms was related to criminal or administrative ones in environmental matters; obviously all the norms, such as those relating to safety at work, would have remained outside, which would have - there, yes, in that case - created areas of impunity. So let's say it once and for all: the term "abusely" does not mean "in the absence of administrative authorization." This interpretation is also supported by the experience of the courts, in view of the fact that this adverb is already contained in Article 260 of the single text on the environment which - we know - punishes organizations aimed at the illicit trafficking of waste; also there the term "abusely" is contained as characterizing the conducts. Over ten years of experience has shown us that, in the face of a legal and legal production of thousands of prosecutions and sentences of condemnation, the term "abusely" has, as far as it is concerned, led to specific and concrete sanctions for conduct. Therefore, this comforts us in the knowledge that law is not of course mathematics and that every contrary opinion is most respectable. However, here I would like to give these inputs and these signals to reassure you, because I see some behaviors of some environmentalists, perhaps some of whom could be motivated by electoral aspirations linked to the contingent period we are going through. We can reasonably rest assured that the adverb will not result in these unpunished extensions. On the contrary, the Court of Cassation, precisely in relation to Article 260 of the single text on the environment, in specific cases, with the 2008 judgment, then consolidated in a direction that is now granitic, has specified that the term "abusive" does not mean even clandestine in the broad sense. Some say that if there had been this rule, the ILVA trial Taranto's sold-out environment would not have taken place. Here, too, the opinions, for the sake of goodness, must be respected, but frankly, the operators themselves and lawyers in the sector directly engaged in the judicial front of the fight for the environment support exactly the opposite. Moreover, this is an opinion that our Group believes to embrace: the term "abusely" could not have removed anything from the Taranto trial; indeed, it would have been easier to operate even with real (sequestrian) and personal protective measures and perhaps it would have been possible to have telephone interceptions, as it will be possible to do for the crimes that we are about to introduce: the maximum penalty for the crime of environmental pollution is six years and for the one of fifteen years environmental disaster and also the other hypothesis of crime allows, in all cases where the maximum penalty is more than five years, to use this instrument of investigation. Perhaps the few minutes I have left will be used to give small flashes on some important points, which have been mentioned little in the debate, which ensure that the legislation as a whole is sufficiently rigid and strong to ensure its effectiveness. We've arranged to double the time limit for the crimes we're talking about. It is also prepared to be unable to contract for entrepreneurs who are complicit in environmental crimes. We know that in the anti-corruption text which is now before the House this measure (i.e. the temporary one) will be extended to five years at most; this means that the undertaking that has been given to the commission of crimes that we are talking about will be substantially put out of the market, perhaps even forever. Confiscation is foreseen not only in classical cases, in relation to the profit or the price of the crime or even disposed for equivalent; it will be possible to arrange confiscation even in all cases where the subject under investigation as a security measure cannot justify his standard of living; in all cases where that standard of living situation can be linked to the commission of such crimes (which we also know the amount of profits they generate, especially in all situations where there is a collusion or closeness with criminal powers even of the mafia type). On this point we remember that there are also provisions in the bill for specific increases of penalty for all the associative hypotheses, both the simple ones and those referred to in article 416-a of the penal code. Even if a public official or a public service officer is involved, there is a specific, particularly severe increase, even with an increase in sentence from one third to half. We are therefore talking, in the most serious cases of environmental disaster, about maximum penalties that can in abstract exceed, and abundantly, even the twenty years. In my view, this is finally an appropriate response, and it is necessary to introduce it. For all these reasons, we are happy, as a parliamentary component which for the first time is part of a legislature, to be here not only as witnesses, but as architects, together with the other political forces, of this moment that we consider historical. I am not here to repeat this, because I do not want to play rhetorical, but this is a moment of urgency for every citizen to be fully aware of. Finally, these types of crime are introduced and we finally give hope, to our country and to future generations, to live in a better world. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mirabelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u28	Senator Morgoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems rather strange that measures deemed to be broadly shared, if not decisive, at least very important, are destined to a winding parliamentary path, bumpy and unbearably slow in relation to expectations and needs. This was also the fate of this law on environmental crimes, which arrives in the Senate in a new reading. At least it is to be hoped that this text will be adopted quickly in the next few hours. In fact, according to the Legambiente report on eco-afies presented last year, which I would like to mention here, there are over 29,000 infringements detected in 2013. The turnover of this industry of lawlessness has in the same year reached 15 billion euros. Even the geography of this industry of environmental massacre has changed and has become over time no longer confined within certain territorial and administrative boundaries. Legambiente always affirms that we are faced with an eco-criminal entrepreneurship, characterized by a lively dynamism, to which it counters the immobilism of national politics, since in our country there is still legislation to protect the antiquated and completely inadequate environment, essentially of a contrary nature and based on an outdated approach that recognizes primarily the reasons of the economy, leaving out a correct analysis of the environmental, health and social costs. The ecocrimes are therefore living realities, buttons, sometimes hidden, other macroscopic ones, present in every part of the country and that have produced, produce and unfortunately will continue to produce damages for years, sometimes even hundreds of years. The environmental, landscape, economic and above all human health costs are incalculable and unsustainable for the community. The rules currently in use to combat this scourge, despite the sometimes providential intervention of the jurisprudence, are considered unanimously insufficient. We are fighting an economy of evil against the environment with a sanctioning system that refers mainly to the unique text of the environment and that identifies the hypothesis of crime that punish the mere putting in danger, in abstract, of the protected good of the environment, but intervenes on the facts and criminal behaviors with rather minor sanctions as criminal offences. We therefore demand that we fight a rich, organised and widespread criminal economy with weapons sprung up. For this reason, the introduction of environmental crimes in the penal code today is an objective of legality and justice, but I would also say a goal of civilization, because, with this passage, ecosystems and biodiversity, air, water and soil assume, beyond the intrinsic environmental value, the status of precious and unique heritage of the community, which cannot be compromised without paying the hardest consequences. The country has been waiting for a measure like this for too many years, given the many deep wounds suffered (often inflicted with impunity). The measure establishes new criminal cases not yet foreseen: pollution and environmental disaster, impediment to control, traffic and abandonment of radioactive material. However, as a member of the bicameral committee of inquiry into the waste cycle, I would like to stress the part of the new legislation concerning the crime of non-reclamation, which punishes, with the imprisonment from one to four years and the fine from EUR 20,000 to EUR 80,000, anyone who does not provide for the reclamation, restoration and recovery of the status of the places. Here too, too many situations are in which the reclamation of a polluted site appears almost like a mirage. Often the managers do everything to avoid facing the cost of environmental restoration; the companies fail, they get rid of all the goods leaving to the state the great problems and the very high costs of the reclamation, with the result that so many situations remain in the immobilism if not even in a state of abandonment. I would also like to mention the industrious repentance and equivalent confiscation introduced by this legislation. All these elements require, in my opinion, an indisputable and urgent entry into force of the same legislation, useful both to combat in a more effective and rigorous way the environmental crimes, but also to promote the diffusion of a greater awareness and a real culture of environmental values, also because we cannot forget that much of the damage caused to the environment also arises from ignorance and superficiality, as well as from reasons of unjust economic profit. The benefits of fair competition in a highly developed economic sector should not be overlooked, where the impunity of those who do not work within the rules becomes an intolerable advantage to those who act in full respect of the rules. Any initiative to slow down or hinder the entry into force of this measure is therefore unfounded. I refer in particular to the issue of air gun, to the issue of underwater explorations, a complex and delicate issue, which must be dealt with organically and not in a simplistic way and which cannot be resolved by deleting with the penal code a technique used all over the world. It must also be regulated by means of harmonisation of legislation at European level, which cannot be included in this measure, such as the one we are debating, which is of different significance. Moreover, on this subject agendas have been approved, both to the House and to the Senate, which commit the Government to an action of control and monitoring and is of yesterday the legislative decree of transposition of the European directive n. 30 of 2013, so-called offshore, for the safety of operations at sea in the field of hydrocarbons. It is, therefore, a subject that must be tackled in an organic way, beyond the will to intervene with an episodic and all in all not exhaustive measure. Beyond these notations, finally, it can be rightly said that the arrival at the definitive approval of this bill is a great result of an effort shared by so many colleagues, by the rapporteurs, by all those who have helped to confront it and improve it. This shared effort cannot and must not be lost, seeking a sterile and inconclusive perfectionism that would still delay the entry into force of this legislation. In other words, I think it is very wise to avoid pursuing the impossible by neglecting to do what is necessary for our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u30	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the measure returns to the Senate after the Kafkiana affair linked to the rule introduced here by amending the text approved by the House and then deleted by it, aimed at punishing with imprisonment from one to three years the unlawful inspection of seabeds. I would remind you that the draft law aims to strengthen environmental protection by means of new deterrent rules, to provide the judiciary and the law enforcement agencies with adequate tools to respond more effectively to the criminal conducts that are widespread and unscrupulous and therefore to combat the illegals to the detriment of the environment itself (the so-called eco-reactors) and the health of the citizens. The League considers it important to protect the environment through the introduction of new cases of crime, such as environmental pollution, environmental disaster, traffic and the abandonment of high radioactivity material, or the prevention of control. The League also looks positively at the introduction of so-called remedial conducts, such as the obligation to restore the status of the places and the reclamation, the industrious repentance and the confiscation. Overall, therefore, as a result of our positive judgment with respect to the end, we have never hindered the bill, but rather we have always tried to improve it, through amending contributions. However, we reiterate that the final text is not without its criticality, which we want to highlight. Our main consideration starts from the assumption that the penal code must be revised with extreme care and attention and that, when introducing new criminal cases, the rule requires that they should be written not in a general way, but in accordance with the principle of taxableness, that is, in a clear and comprehensive way. In this case, however - as has also emerged from today's debate and especially from that at second reading, even with great political and intellectual honesty, by some members of the majority - rules have been introduced that lend themselves to interpretation and that therefore risk being used not in an appropriate and appropriate way, with an excess of discretion in the application of the crime by the magistrate. We therefore believe, while recognising and sharing the objective of protecting an important asset such as the environment, that this is not the right way to legislate. I remember the debate that had started on the definition of high radioactivity material, which was noted as important for many members of the majority, which was then left unsolved. Aware then that today's text is armored, we believe that it was an error that during the work of the Chamber, at the same time as the removal of the norm relative to 'air gun, they did not want to remove some criticalities. At this point, as the North League, we can only hope that some wisdom and common sense will be used to handle the new criminal law with care. In fact, politics must not approve rules just to make a tweet, but it must approve good and useful norms for the country, for the citizens and, above all, for the enterprises, and that do not go to disadvantage some for the benefit of others. This is to say that we in the League want to avoid that a criminal case, introduced with the noble aim of protecting the environment, risks becoming an instrument that perhaps penalizes our entrepreneurs, for a very honest part, who are already today particularly vexed by taxes, bureaucracy, the slowness of administrative justice and, not least, by SISTRI who was born to control the traceability of waste and instead has proved to be an inefficient and expensive ballast today. [[Applause from the Senator Council]] These are those entrepreneurs to whom President Renzi continues to address promising simplification, less bureaucracies and less taxes. This is the reflection that we bring to the attention and we want to highlight, regardless of the story of the air gun, that has also had embarrassing implications and has highlighted an amateurism on the part of the Government, on the one hand, and of the majority on the other. With regard to the techniques of inspection of the seabed for the cultivation of hydrocarbons, like the North League we have tabled two similar amendments, with which we ask that those who use the air gun technique without complying with the requirements of the environmental impact assessment decrees (EIA) be punished with imprisonment from one to three years. I would remind you that the EIA decrees, following specific studies carried out by the ISPRA and the Environmental Impact Verification Commission VIA and VAS, contain specific requirements for an acoustic monitoring ante operam, in progress and post operam, which, in addition to the guidelines of the Agreement for the conservation of cetaceans in the Mediterranean, the Black Sea and the adjacent Atlantic areas (ACCOBAMS), allow the inspection and control of the marine environment even before and after the prospecting activities and, therefore, are not only much more severe and precautionary than the same guidelines of the ACCOBAMS, but also allow to obtain an acoustic characterization of the area of intervention and the previous and subsequent behaviour of mammals and fish species and therefore to verify effectively any disturbances caused by the technique of the air gun. Given that the text is armored and that the opinion on the amendments will be negative, we will consider a possible withdrawal of them if the Government is willing to accept the respective agendas that commit the Government to evaluate the forecasts of specific punishments for those who use the air gun technique for the research and exploration activities of the seabeds aimed at the cultivation of hydrocarbons without complying on time with the requirements of the environmental impact assessment decrees. Therefore, we await the opinions of the rapporteur and the Government and, if they are positive about the adoption of these amending proposals as an agenda, we will consider the withdrawal of our two amendments as the North League. [[Applause from the Senator Council]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Companione. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are revisiting the issue of the eco-reactors, because the House, at the will of the Government, intended to abolish the introduction of Article 452-terdecies of the penal code which provided for the punishable use of the air gun. I think this senate is called today to make a very precise field choice. You have to choose who you want to be with: if you want to be on the side of the oil lobby or if you want to be on the side of the environment, the sea, the fish, the beauty of our peninsula. Since everything is relative in life, I imagine that colleague Sollo gets lost in the sight of the drills or gets emotions when at sunset, on the sea, you see some beautiful platform or when some spot of oil swings over the sea. For God's sake, it's a matter of sensitivity, but something tells me that these are a minority and I hope so. Then there is the economic aspect of the matter. Some people here argue that the future is still in oil; this statement is rocky with everything that this Government, our Ministers and the most advanced governments today claim to look at renewable sources as a model of development. Renewable sources are certainly not oil and, therefore, it makes no sense to focus on it again. The extraordinary thing is that this Senate, on several occasions, has also written these things on agendas; they have been repeated and repeated, and we have approved them unanimously and have been signed by the Government, but in fact we still persist in this logic of preferring oil explorations over renewable sources that we all, in words, say we want to pursue. I now come to the job front: for those who do not know, the platforms work with superspecialized staff; it is not true that there is a large contribution of labour and work. We are not talking about royalty, which we all know is absolutely ridiculous, and about the fact that the price of oil is falling. There is certainly no balance between social, economic and employment benefits and environmental damage on the other hand, unless, as has always been in Italy, the damage remains to Italy and to Italians and, instead, the benefits go to few others. According to a study by the ENEL Foundation and the Politecnico di Milano, an appropriate green energy efficiency programme would produce a turnover of around €64 billion by 2020 and, above all, would create 460,000 jobs; another €30,000 would come with a strong focus on recycling in the waste sector, along with 4 billion savings in costs and a further €3 billion in environmental benefits. That's a lot of attention to work. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have three basic questions to answer. The first is as follows: the technique we are talking about, the air gun, causes environmental damage? Does it cause damage to the marine ecosystem? Does it damage the economy of those territories where it is practiced? Does it damage tourism, fishing, good food and therefore people? I think the answer is positive: it does this damage, and I do not say it, but ISPRA and over 70 scientists have written it down, as well as a lot of studies that have been carried out for over thirty years. OceanCare tells us, too. Professor Sigrid Lüber wrote to me about seismic investigations carried out with the air gun technique, explaining that these are organized in batteries - it has been said, but we repeat - with which a sound is generated by firing high pressure air in water, usually in the direction of the seabed, with groups up to 20 air gun activated in synchronism. The impulses penetrate tens of kilometers into the earth's crust, after having crossed thousands of meters of water, and each air gun emits a sound pulse lasting twenty-thirty milliseconds, which is repeated on average every ten seconds, for twenty-four hours, for several weeks or whole months. These sound impulses - I say not but OceanCare - damage marine life, being acute and rapidly growing sounds and, while there are more environmentally friendly alternatives, these are not used by the oil industry. We draw attention to the potential impact of seismic activities on fish stocks and, therefore, on potential economic damage to the fisheries sector. Three decades of controlled scientific studies leave no doubt that intense noise damage fish stocks and, therefore, the fishing industry. Oceanic noise has negative effects on 55 marine species. And a study has shown that even the vitality of fish eggs is reduced when they are exposed to sound for several days. Therefore, it is shown that damage to hearing and reproductive system occurs, with a significant reduction in catches, and consequently, significant negative effects on the availability of food, employment levels and economies of many countries. This is so true that the UN has called on FAO to carry out studies on the socio-economic impacts of ocean noise pollution. If we have made it clear that the damage occurs, we have to answer a second question. We must ask ourselves whether this technique and oil explorations are indispensable for our future and our economies. Is it the price that needs to be paid for development? I don't think so. Perhaps it could have been so fifty or a hundred years ago, but today I do not believe that development can be linked to oil. I'm going to the conclusions. Is it right that a minority of people can cause harm to so many other people in the world that we will leave to our children? Colleagues, probably in fifty years' time, which is the duration of the concessions that are given today, which were given in April and which is continuing to give, many of us will no longer be there. Are we thinking that we're gonna leave all this to our children? In the light of what we have said, a good government - as Mr Morgoni said - should have at least deepened the issue, checked whether there was a need for regulation of the use of air gun, investigated with scientific bodies the difference between continuous use or not and the possibility of using alternative techniques. On the other hand, with much superficiality and even with a pinch of arrogance, we are trying to make this all a political nonsense - there is a statement by Minister Orlando in this sense - as if we were some unsubstantiated fools who, only to make a little 'politics, we ventured to pose the problem of 'air gun. And that is not acceptable. We have raised this problem because we are supported by huge amounts of scientific studies that show that this is a real problem. Nor is it true that it is a problem that exists only in Italy and that in other countries you do what you want: just see what is happening in the United States and examine all the assessments, recommendations and obligations provided for in the European directives. I quote - for example - Directive No 42 of 2001 or the latest No 52 of 2014, according to which environmental impact assessments must be carried out before projects - as Senator Arrigoni said - are authorised in order to identify impacts on biodiversity, with particular regard to species and habitats protected under Directives 92/43/EC and 2009/147/EC. We also mention the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) decision which reads: We do not believe that exploration and/or cultivation/exploitation in protected areas should be authorised. And again, within the framework of the Agreement on the Conservation of Cetaceans in the Mediterranean Sea, the Black Sea and the contiguous Atlantic Area (ACCOBAMS), Resolution 4.17, which recalled his colleague, acknowledges that "The oceanic noise of anthropic origin is a form of pollution caused by the release of energy into the marine environment which can have negative effects on marine life, such as disturbances, injuries and even death" and recommends that the parties analyse the problem of oceanic noise of anthropic origin. These are all certain and concrete facts. So let us return to the initial statement: who do we want to be with, ladies and gentlemen? What's our choice? If most Members of Parliament and Ministers every day say they want to change the world, they talk about sustainable development and the strategic importance of renewable sources, recycling and reuse - there is no day or newspaper article in which some of us do not talk about these issues - because, contrary to what is said, we want to reject our amendment at all costs? Dear colleagues and dear Senator Zanda, to close with a note in some way amusing, you are likely to end up the same way as Dante's hypocrites. A few evenings ago, exactly Wednesday, after the Commission rejected our amendment, on television again an episode of the reading of "Tutto Dante" was aired, during which the good Benigni clearly outlined the vice of Italian politics, saying that it is made of mere utilitarian calculations, hidden under an apparent benefit for the country. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] And so, to say it like Dante, we risk going to Hell and, where they send us, we will be in good company with the great Renzi and some good minister, who say one thing and then do anything else. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF) and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u34	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u35	(IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the draft law on eco-reactors which we are called upon to debate today, at a new reading, provides for a rationalization of the criminal rules on the environment and a tightening of sanctions for polluters. It is a necessary text because, after more than twenty years of waiting, it finally inserts in the penal code the crimes committed against the environment. It extends, until double, the time limit; it introduces new criminal cases, such as those of environmental pollution, environmental disaster, traffic and abandonment of high radioactivity material - then, it should be given the definition of "high" - impediment to environmental control and omitted reclamation. It is a law that also calls for Europe, and perhaps that is why, after twenty years, we have a law. For far too long human damage to the environment and damage to the health of citizens have been unpunished. It is time to give a whip, to offer a test of civilization. But I have a doubt: will we be able to condemn someone? With the adoption of this law, can crimes against the environment be properly sanctioned and effectively combated? We cannot allow ecomafias to act unpunished and honest entrepreneurs, who respect the law, to suffer the unfair competition of those who continue to operate in lawlessness. There are about 34,000 crimes, 28,000 people reported to the authorities, 161 are under house arrest and about 8,000 judicial foreclosures, for a turnover of almost 17 billion euros. What a sweetheart! It is the photograph of Italian environmental crime: a gigantic business, today run by 302 mafia clans. In the last 20 years, criminal infiltrations into waste management and the development of renewable energy have increased exponentially. The data released by the 2013 Ecomafia report are eloquent. These are the facts. But will the present bill really solve these problems? It is an economy that arises from the communion of interests between unscrupulous entrepreneurs, mayors, collusive administrators, corrupt officials, unethical professionals and mob boss. Will this bill have such a power of contrast? It is not only the economic aspect of the deal that attracts the mafia, but the prospect of impunity. In fact, most Italian courts are only able to sanction these crimes from the administrative point of view: it is enough to pay a fine to settle the accounts with justice. A simple fine is enough when health and, therefore, people's lives are at stake. I'd say it's a shame! We can no longer tolerate incidents such as the emblematic Eternit case, in which everything ended with nothing in fact: those responsible for the tragedy were all acquitted for the lack, in our penal code, of a crime such as that of environmental disaster. They are under the eyes of all explosive environmental situations: from the land of fires, to Taranto, to the valley of Sacco. We must intervene with strong and immediate measures, so as not to be complicit in further delays. We do not make our children pay for the damage caused by our pollution. The undisturbed action of many unscrupulous industrialists in the 1980s has caused irreparable damage to the environment, which we are now suffering from. We live surrounded by landfills. Not all our children are allowed to drink tap water. To cite an example of an issue that I personally dealt with in the City of Milan, in via Bazzi, there was a high concentration of hexavalent chromium in the groundwater, with the risk of compromise of the deepest layer used for drinking water. The high percentage of this highly carcinogenic substance is due to the industrial past of the area. Let's think about the case of the Olona valley, an area that takes its name from the Olona river and extends from the Province of Milan to that of Varese: today it is largely contaminated by mercury present in the soil. According to a Legambiente document, the assessments of water quality in this valley range from poor to bad, to bad, while Europe, theoretically, should be more than good. Overall, the state of the environment is extremely critical with significant pollution of aquifers, air and soil, but none of the competent authorities - I repeat none of the competent authorities - has at the moment intervened and the urgent questioning I have presented on this issue is dead letter. It's time to change course. Therefore, we gather the appeal of Legambiente and Libera that ask us not to make any changes, to avoid exploitation and fill the regulatory vacuum that has allowed the eco-afies and the most unscrupulous industrialists to enrich themselves to the detriment of the health of the citizens. However, the question remains: will that be enough? We have not tabled any amendments, we have not had any press conferences to prevent controversy and to encourage the rapid adoption of the law. We are aware, however, that the text has some concerns and that it would have been appropriate - for example - to include the prohibition on the use of air gun, i.e. an inspection technique aimed at analysing the composition of the marine subsoil, consisting of high-density compressed air shots. These shots generate reflected waves, to extract data on the composition of the seabeds, which can, however, also cause behavioural and physiological disturbances to fish fauna. The air gun technique was, therefore, strongly criticized at international level and by Italian environmental associations. The Senate had already expressed itself, introducing, through an amendment, the imprisonment from one to three years for the unlawful inspection of the seabed. It was a sensible rule, which would not restrict scientific research, but the Senate raped the House, and I stress that. Here in the Senate, 114 of us voted in favour of an action which, in the majority, we considered a crime and did so with the approval of the Government. What does the government do now? Change your room and change your mind. In these two years, I have always had only one certainty, which from time to time you have consolidated, rejecting dozens and dozens of reasonable and non-onerous amendments: from the perspective of the principle of non-contradiction of government action, the Executive could never contradict itself in the transition from one House to another. Here, we are faced with a problem: either the principle is wrong and you have lied to me so far, and so you are false; or the principle is right, and here you have made a gross error. There is, then, a third possibility: it is not you who decide, and that worries me very much. Stay calm, because with me today a precedent has been created: just a chalk and a gate to be a professor and it was enough the interest of the oil multinationals to contradict a government. What does science say? It divides and, when the path of science is divided, the strongest takes hold. The rethinking that the Government had in the Chamber can be read, in fact, only as a gift to the big oil companies, who opposed the amendment. We hope, at this point, that the Government will at least assume the responsibility of accepting our agenda, aimed at suspending the granting of authorisations for marine mining research involving the use of air gun technology. The subject is serious and delicate and deserves rapid reflection and intervention in the legislative field. Another unclear element in the bill is the definition of high radioactivity, which is not scientific and, consequently, the criminal case introduced could lead to interpretative doubts. During the parliamentary process, however, we were able to make some corrections to the text: our agenda was approved, which commits the Government to strengthen the controls of radioactive materials at the borders with particular techniques, in order to hit especially the criminal organizations that benefit from the disposal and trafficking of hazardous waste. While we are aware of some shadows that remain in the measure, we understand the need not to make further changes to it, because it is a text that really paves the way for a change, or at least an attempt at cultural change. We are used to considering the environment as a landscape or a beautiful setting, while it is our living space, from which we derive our well-being and our health. It is from this point of view that Article 9 of our Constitution is to be reread and those who do not respect it must be severely punished. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators De Pin and Vaccari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u37	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am the one with the air gun, and not only that. I am the one of the battle against drilling, personally conducted, but not in solitary. I know very well, in fact, that in this House the vast majority of my colleagues share my positions, in their heart, even if they are forced not to do so in the vote, that - as I have just announced, to reassure everyone - I will ask for it to be clear and not secret about my amendments, because I want to understand who is ahead of the interests of their territory and who, instead, is against the interests of their political position. I would particularly like to ask my colleagues from the South, from my Sicily and from the President of that region if they know where they live. There has been talk of an industrial miracle. After 60 years of experience with petrochemicals in Sicily, I ask my colleagues if they have ever been to Milazzo, Priolo, Augusta, Gela and other sites that can be watered down today, even if they want to spend many billions of euros. I would ask those who are scandalized - and there are many colleagues, especially the centre-left - about cement on the coasts because they are not also scandalized by tar on the coasts. I ask those who pursue dreams of alternative economic development and in concrete terms tourism, fisheries and clean agriculture, to prefer, instead, an uncertain and definitely devastating model of development for the environment. I ask those who speak of the Mediterranean if the first of the precautionary riches of those who overlook it is not constituted precisely by the sea and its riches and prospects of development. It's really very unique. And the attitude of communication is also unique. Of course, we do not have the economic resources to buy pages from major national newspapers, as the Assomineraria does to try to justify its work. In fact, if his work were absolutely acceptable, he would not need to use these resources. And the press aligns, because the purchased pages make. I would ask the President-in-Office of the Council why, within the same centre-left, he has changed the olive vote programme. I remember - I now have some experience in this Parliament - President Prodi told us here that, in his electoral programme, Sicily and South Italy were to be the California of our country. President Renzi told us - and this can also do him honour from the point of view of transparency, but certainly not from that of the contents - that he would transform Basilicata and Sicily into Texas of Italy, not knowing of course the cultural, environmental and economic contents of the regions of which he speaks. In fact, while Texas is a desert, we have the great cultural heritage, we have the beauty of the coasts, the richness of our islands and our fishing. I recall the provisions of Article 38 of the so-called Italy unblocking measure, which I did not, of course, vote on. Similarly, I did not vote - Senator Vaccari, so I told you - that famous resolution on drilling. Although I was part of the majority, I told her that, despite President Marinello's laborious and praiseworthy mediation, that resolution was a gap that opened up on the subject of drilling; I cross that, after a few weeks, it became the abyss of Article 38. You, of course, have not reacted because, once again, you have legitimately put political interest and belonging to the majority in the interests of future generations. By now I believe that I have abundantly exceeded the means of the path of my life and, therefore, I hope - I hope - not to see the immediate negative effects of what will happen in the sea, of which I deeply breathe essences when I am lucky to be in my land. Maybe I won't see the consequences of drilling prescriptions in that sea. But my fight doesn't stop at the air gun episode. Mine is a battle that continues. I would like to say that it is a war, of which perhaps this can be an episode, a war that will move to the territory, where the people do not want these initiatives. Once again you are far from the feeling of the people. And I can give you an example. In 1960, while the ruins of Augusta, Priolo and Milazzo occurred on the east coast of Sicily, on the west coast the populations blocked the drillings between the coast and the Egadi islands and in the front part of San Vito Lo Capo. Today those towns have the highest per capita income per inhabitant, just because they have been able to interpret an alternative way to the industrial development and looter of the oilers. And it is the alternative way of white gold, tourism and related activities. Today, therefore, you also deny a model of economic development, at a time when you do not recognize the danger of drilling activities and those related to exploration and research. 18.15 p.m. (Follow-up). Someone is trying to defend themselves by saying that if these amendments were to pass, the whole measure would be put at risk. But why could it be put at risk freely in the House? We had launched the measure. And, therefore, there is a government mining blockade which also commands the will of individual Members of Parliament and Parliament. These are economic policy choices, as well as environmental policy choices. Unfortunately, environmental policy will fall, like many of our choices, on the shoulders of future generations. Economic policy has even more immediate repercussions. Today they will authorize (and have already been authorized) activities of this type between Capo Passero and Malta, in the area where there is the most important breeding area of the entire Mediterranean. And in a few years' time the fishing capacity of our fishermen will certainly decrease, and even our marine industry will decrease its ability to bring small wealth: wealth to families and not, of course, to large companies, as the drilling activity should do instead. In 2010, as President of the Environment Commission, I managed to find a good compromise, which protected the coasts and distances from protected areas and the smaller islands and, above all, established some cautions. Subsequently, in 2012, a first small entrance was, unfortunately, opened by the Monti-Passera Government. Then, however, the Community directive came into effect, which re-established certain regulations and precautions: a Community directive which your Government has ignored for months because, under Article 38 of the last Italian decree, it was able to start the activity of requesting and granting forty years of authorization without the precautions provided for by it. Yesterday the news appeared that the Council of Ministers examined the implementing decrees of the Community directive, and someone spoke of the great timeliness of the Government. Yes, a great timeliness: the last useful day. It was expected the last useful day and, before a three-month extension could be arranged, those decrees which, of course, still have to come to the parliamentary committees have been activated. So, in the meantime, the perverse machine of Article 38 of the Italian Unlock can continue to produce its effects. Senator Arrigoni, the air gun has not only an acoustic effect, but also a physical effect. It doesn't seem to me that explosives are harmful to humans just because they can compromise their hearing. I understand that explosives are harmful to humans, especially because of the physical effect they have on them. Mr President, we legitimately prohibit the fishing of coral in the Mediterranean Sea and the Sicily Canal in particular, but we authorize the destruction of those coral banks through these techniques. Then why forbid fishing? To avoid an economic activity linked to the processing of coral or because we want to preserve the marine environment, where corals have a balancing presence and rich biodiversity? If so, then we should also forbid its destruction. This also applies to the explosive used by fishermen. We rightly forbid fishermen to use explosives, because it would be an absolutely censorable fishing technique, but we allow the lives of billions of fish to be compromised by the physical effect of the explosive used for the air gun. Therefore, let us not come and tell stories. The truth is one: there is a choice of precise economic policy that favours the mining industry, drilling in the Mediterranean compared to other models of conservation of the environment also linked to other models of economic development. I do not think, in fact, that a large complex like what Rocco Forte installed in Sicily can continue to host international elites with a beautiful drill visible a few miles from the coast, as you want and you could do. Therefore, I repeat that I do not want to create any problems, but simply to clarify political positions of myself and my colleagues, personal positions and not Group positions. I will not, therefore, ask for the secret vote on these amendments, but for the clear vote, because everyone will appreciate how they intend to deal with this issue. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u38	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u39	Mr President, this bill on eco-reactors is probably not going to be perfect, but it is time to start writing a page against environmental crimes. For us today is an important day, a day that has been postponed for over twenty years. My colleagues and I are here because we are moved by the outrage and anger that we have experienced in so many years of environmental disasters on our territories. On our shoulders we have hundreds of demonstrations, thousands of meetings, presences in courtrooms waiting for a verdict that never came against those who murdered and raped our land, always saved by a law that was not there or by a prescription. We studied, we met in the squares, everywhere. We became aware that what was happening was caused by the combination and interweaving of political affairs with those of criminals. All our activity of active and then political citizenship starts from the protection of the environment and, for those like me coming from the land of fires, this can only be a day of celebration, because for the first time, with the entry into force of the measure under consideration, finally we offer instruments of defence to our territories and to the citizens. Unfortunately, there is no way to remedy the disasters that have already occurred, but we will certainly be able to stop those that could happen in the future. In this path of environmental struggles that lasted for decades together with citizens, committees and associations, to fight eco-criminals there was not politics, but there was only those who really believed it. I am referring first of all to the State Forestry Corps, which the Government intends to dissolve, but which carries out investigations on environmental crimes on a daily basis. And then there are all those magistrates who, over the years, have tried to defend the environment, sometimes even trying the path of the disaster named and, therefore, the interpretation of the criminal case under Article 434 of the Criminal Code. As I said earlier, this bill will not be perfect, but we cannot postpone this moment any longer. We are late and this delay does not simply amount to a time issue, but has to do only and exclusively with one word: shame. Shame you didn't do it before. Shame because the minutes of the repentants of Camorra have been secreted, hiding from the citizens very serious facts from which the land of fires has sprung, that could be stopped and, instead, let the environmental devastation continue despite these classrooms everyone knew. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Shame on the facts of the Ilva and the trials on the Eternit. With regard to the concerns expressed by some associations, I understand that the bill could have been better, considering - for example - that the Government, in the Chamber of Deputies, at its last reading, deprived it of the paragraph relating to the configuration of the crime for those who use the technique of 'air gun. However, we have reached the crossroads: on the one hand, the possibility today of being completely possible and uncertain to improve the text and, on the other, the certainty of introducing environmental crimes into our system, after more than twenty years of waiting. As a 5 Star Movement we chose the second path, to prevent the provision from being covered up again. We have chosen to give an answer to the mothers of Acerra, who have lost their children, to all the victims of the land of fires - it is not only in Campania, because every Region now has its land of fires - and the ILVA; to the victims of all the environmental disasters that have so far occurred in our country. We certainly cannot return the lost affections, but we can expect certain tragedies to cease. We can expect those who pollute to pay and, even more so, we must expect them to pay more if they fail to clean up. The authors of environmental disasters to date were punished only with an administrative sanction: this law introduces in the penal code a title dedicated to crimes against the environment, with as many as five new crimes. This is certainly an undisputed novelty and to this are added other strengths, such as - for example - the innovative crime of omission reclamation, also awaited by the judiciary; the increase of the prescriptions; the prediction of the so-called environmental aggravating factor; the punishableness also of the manslaughter crimes and the application of the precautionary measure of confiscation. So today's is just a first and important step in the fight against environmental crime. And the fact that we have not continued the battle against air gun, which - as colleagues know - is an invasive technique that seriously harms marine ecosystems, with potential damage to biodiversity, does not mean that the problem has been solved. The air gun technique must be adjusted as soon as possible, with a specific measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The European Union, with Directive No 30 of 2013, to be transposed by 19 July 2015, identified the need to increase the protection of the marine environment by setting minimum safety conditions for the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons at sea. It is clear, therefore, that action will have to be taken as soon as possible, not only to avoid another infringement procedure for failure to transpose the Directive, but above all to regulate and possibly prohibit this technique. The Government, in its examination in the Commission, has already made a number of commitments on this subject, accepting some agendas, and has undertaken, inter alia, to monitor closely the environmental impacts of the air gun technique, and to assess the desirability of providing for the suspension of new activities for the cultivation of liquid hydrocarbons within 12 miles of the coast and protected marine and coastal areas. I thank all the associations that, with their contribution, have allowed the achievement of this first stage of a path, which has just begun, to protect the environment and the health of the citizens, and that we will certainly continue to go along with all those who want it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the measure we are going to examine, at your second reading in the Senate and probably last, not only includes the elements that have been the subject of amendments by the House of Members, but also and above all other rules. We have always supported the need to defend the environment and we all recognise the need to change, if necessary, the rules in force today, in order to be able to effectively prosecute those who cause serious impairment of the territory and the environment. And, if there are rules to be amended, we have always been willing, from the outset, to examine them, and it is precisely with this attitude that we have become involved in examining the measure. Unfortunately - as has already been pointed out by others before me - here we are faced with rules that, of course, affect the authors of serious episodes. There are those who have spoken of the land of the fires and the very serious events caused by the Eternit precisely in my region, which caused - and unfortunately continues to do so - hundreds of deaths. Unfortunately, the text, as it is formulated, equates, from the point of view of penalties, facts not relevant to these very serious episodes, against which every effort must be made to repress them, also in order to distract anyone who dealt lightly with these issues and could cause such facts in the future. In this area we must remember, as Senator Fucksia said before me, that the magistrate must also do his part. If the magistrate errs the head of charge, you cannot make such a law that it is effective even if it is not applied correctly. This seems too much to me. You can't tell things apart. It is true that here the anti-democratic press (i.e. most of it) always wants to blame the so-called politics, which would then be democracy, translated into true language, but we cannot go beyond certain limits. Well, here we are faced with extremely vague formulations. We talk, for example, of environmental pollution, which is not a small thing and is punished with imprisonment from two to six years (to which are added fines and others), for anyone who abuses a significant and measurable compromise or deterioration of water and air, or of extended or significant portions of soil or subsoil. Then there's more. It is already difficult to understand what is an extended or significant portion of the soil, but, at least, it is specified that it must be extended and meaningful, while for the pollution of the water and the air there is no written; it must not be even extended or significant. Basically, you rely completely on the discretion of the judge. Let us hope that the judge uses this discretion well, but we have more than one evidence of magistrates who have used it badly or badly both in one sense and in the other, both in the sense of punishing it too severely, and in the sense of not punishing it at all, as happened with the Eternit affair. If you are wrong even in the charge, it is not strange that you are wrong, even if from his point of view it is not even a mistake. Then we have another possibility: the significant and measurable impairment or deterioration of an ecosystem. The ecosystem, understood in the broad sense, is the whole of our planet, but it can also be a pond, a rock or anything that, in some way, is autonomous from the rest of nature. What is an ecosystem? We're talking about biodiversity. What is it? It would be a bit like punishing behavior against goodness. We all agree that those who go against goodness do a bad thing, but the laws do not write like that. You should be more precise. Then there is the environmental disaster that suggests the menu where it says: idem with potatoes. It's the same thing here, but it's more serious. What's a transparent thing? The gate. More transparent? The gate's open. Even here we are rather vague because the environmental disaster, punishable by imprisonment from five to fifteen years, with a further aggravating that we will see later, is the irreversible alteration of the balance of an ecosystem. Again, what is the ecosystem? The environmental disaster is also the alteration of the equilibrium of an ecosystem, the elimination of which is particularly costly and can only be achieved by exceptional measures. What is particularly costly? For a farmer it can be particularly costly to pull out 10,000 euros to clean up an area because he used a substance as fertilizer or as insecticide. For the Italian State, which is particularly expensive, it has another valuation parameter. What is particularly costly? We rely on the goodness and common sense of the judge, hoping that there will be. In many cases there is, well understood. In fact, in most cases there is. The problem is that the investor cannot know before, if one of these crimes is committed out of inattention, if he is faced with that 99 percent of magistrates who judge with common sense or that one percent who judges ideologically giving as a principle against the bad capitalist who had the wrong to invest in our country. It would be long, and certainly incomplete, the list of bizarre judgments. Then, again in Article 1, it is stated: "and can only be achieved by exceptional measures." That is, it is an environmental disaster when exceptional measures are needed to remedy it. And in this case we could be faced with a safe parameter, because the exceptional measure at national level is what is done by decree-law, but by now we use the decree-law for anything, so here we are again: we do not have, again, a parameter. These penalties - I repeat - already go from five to fifteen years and in some cases - we understand - are over-deserved and are still few for those who cause the death of hundreds of people. But the problem is, we don't know who they apply to here. The penalty then increased up to a third; that is, for five years we can reach over six years and from ten we can reach thirteen, when pollution is produced in a protected natural area or subject to a landscape, environmental, historical, artistic architectural or archaeological constraint, that is, to the detriment of protected animal or plant species. Pretty much all the time. I take the example of a person who pollutes the subsoil or aqueducts that are under a square. If this square is that of the Pantheon it is serious; if it is the square, a little less prestigious, of some village then it is less serious. Well, it's a little strange that it has something to do with the historical heritage, if it doesn't damage the monumental aspect; frankly, it's rather strange. Another thing that little or nothing has been said about is the environmental impact, referred to in 452-novies of the future penal code which reads: When a fact already foreseen as a crime is committed in order to execute one or more of the crimes provided for in this Title, (environmental pollution, environmental disaster and so on), the penalty shall be increased from one third to half or up to one third. Well, if a person commits a crime, for example steals a key for the purpose of blowing up a school, he is punished in one way; if he steals a key for the purpose of opening a landfill of polluting materials for a few hours, which absolutely should not be done and which is right to punish, he is punished in a more serious way. Instead - I repeat - if it is to blow up a school with all the children and teachers inside, it is punished in a less serious way. Frankly, I don't think that's the way to deal with the problems. The problems must be tackled in a serious way; we must stop chasing after all the headlines and instead we must run further behind the sensible things. One of the reasons why people no longer have faith in democratic mechanisms and do not go to vote is that they also feel they are being mocked. By giving signals, we have suggested that signals are made here and not serious things. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u42	Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u43	Mr President, we are at the fourth examination of the measure, hopefully the final one, and so I think it will be, because Parliament has come to the very long-awaited conclusion of its work. Environmental crimes were not systematically and rigorously present in our codes and now, finally, they find full citizenship: our environment is no longer without protection. For years our territories have been attacked. We all know, because it has been talked about for a long time, the cases of the land of fires, of Casale Monferrato, of Bussi sul Tirino and of many other territories of our country. In recent years, MEPs have been able to see how much aggression there has been and how much damage has been caused not only to the territory, to the slopes and to the ecosystem, but also to the health of people. That is why we were right to intervene. There has been serious work on the part of the Senate: we are the House which, in the end, has defined environmental crimes in a systemic way, knowing how to find the right definition to organize the various cases. We have also succeeded in intervening on such a complex issue by giving systematic legislative intervention. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the work we have done puts us in a position to finally come to an end. The environmental disaster, together with environmental pollution, finds full citizenship in our codes and not in an abstract way, not in empty words, but with the prediction of well-specific pipelines. Indeed, as far as the crime of environmental pollution is concerned, an aggravated hypothesis is also envisaged when the crime is committed in a protected natural area or subject to specific constraints, or at the expense of protected animal or plant species. In fact, this also happened in our country: that in areas of particular value, in particular protection, serious damage could be consumed without any severe consequences. It will no longer be possible from now on. So for the crime of death or injury as a consequence of the crimes of environmental pollution, because it is expected, because of the pollution aggravated by the event of death, a catalogue of penalties graduated because of the gravity of the consequences of the crime and so both when from the pollution comes to a person personal injury, when there is a serious injury, when there is a serious injury and when it causes the death of the person. There has also been an intervention on the crime of environmental disaster. No fear, Senator Malan, the case was explained by the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court itself had defined its characteristics and so Parliament took into account the work of the jurisprudence and finally managed to define the crime of environmental disaster in a precise and precise manner. Even for the crime of traffic and abandonment of high radioactivity material has done a good job and has been done in order to predict even aggravated details. Colleagues, I would not like to put the crime of impediment of control in the background, which punishes with imprisonment from six months to three years those who fail to carry out that activity of environmental surveillance and control of safety and hygiene of the work when they compromise the results. The same applies also to the crime of omitted reclamation, because we have often suffered this disaster too: commitment, projects, activities ready for the activity of reclamation and then, through that damned complicity with the bureaucracy, all this work went up in smoke. This will no longer be possible today. Colleagues, there are also some aggravating details that need to be highlighted. I would like to stress the importance of the simple association and the Mafia association. In these cases, communication to the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor is also envisaged. I would also like to stress positive activity, not just a classically repressive stimulus. I would therefore like to refer to the industrious repentance: the penalties are reduced from half to two thirds if the culprit undertakes to avoid the further consequences of the criminal activity, it concretely helps the judicial authority in the reconstruction of the facts, in the identification of the authors and, before the start of the trial, it ensures the safety, the reclamation and the restoration of the state of the places. Also on this we intervene: the judge orders in any case the recovery and, if possible, the restoration of the places, using also the confiscation of the assets. Ladies and gentlemen, good work has also been done on the regulation of administrative offences and there has also been an intervention on the international trade in endangered animal and plant species. A good job has been done, which puts our country in a position to be protected, to have a modern vision of the environment as a resource, to finally be able to do that positive work in order not only to secure our environment, but also to make it a cultural, economic and productive resource. A modern and advanced vision that the Senate has made its own and that the Chamber has had to modify on a matter that has peeped out here in many interventions: the use of the technique of 'air gun. Well, the government has expressed a key concept. In fact, especially at the Senate there was a clear opposition, and rightly, to this technique. Many of us have shared this opposition, but it is right that the Government and Parliament should intervene in a concrete way so as to avoid overlaps and perhaps, in the face of a fair objective, identify a wrong path. The government has committed itself to this and there are approved agendas in the Commission that will be re-tabled in this House, so that we can also vote well with regard to this issue so that not only the majority but also large opposition areas can contribute by voting, rightly, to approving this important and historic measure. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u44	The President of the Environment Commission, Senator Marinello, asked for clarification. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u45	Mr President, as President of the 13th I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Sollo, for his work, but also for his intervention. I also find it necessary - and I am always addressing Mr Sollo - to make a point. We have absolutely not lost 30 days with respect to the adoption of the law in the overall economy of the times but have gained an important result. When the issue of air gun was discussed at first reading, one of the main topics that developed in this House was precisely the delay of our country in the adoption of Directive 30 of the European Union which not only put our country outside the European context, but was and is strongly opposed precisely by the mining and oil lobby that often hangs on these measures; Directive 30 which found and finds strong opponents and perplexities also in the governmental environment, especially among those responsible for the Department of Economic Development. However - and this has already been said - the Council of Ministers decided on Monday and adopted the directive. This directive in the coming weeks, not in two months, will pass to the scrutiny of the competent Commissions and if the competent Commissions to the Senate and the Chamber will assume the responsibility to make the decree of transposition even more stringent. Precisely in the light of what I am saying, Senator Sollo, I would like to make a further appeal to colleagues to interpret the meaning of these clarifications by inviting them to withdraw the amendments which concern the issue of air gun. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the 5 Star Movement's colleague, Senator Castaldi, who, in withdrawing his amendment and making a relevant statement, expressed the political meaning of the matter. I would ask colleagues to reflect on this argument and withdraw the amendments tabled in such a way as to proceed more rapidly, in the overall economy of the work, towards the adoption of the bill. [[Senator Caleo's applause.]] 18.48 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u46	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u47	Mr President, Amendments 1.5. and 1.6 were transformed into two agendas, the texts of which were agreed with the rapporteur and the Minister, and were handed over to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u48	Mr President, I have already explained the reasons for my amendments in the general debate. I immediately respond to the request made to me by President Marinello that I do not intend to withdraw the amendments, as I said in that same place that I do not intend to submit them to a request for a secret vote. So I will not receive your thanks and of course I regret this, given our affectionate reports. However, I would simply like to point out that these are the only preventive amendments tabled to this measure, which then emphasizes the environmental disaster. However, before an environmental disaster and a poor use of these techniques, extremely invasive especially in the sea, where the controls are absolutely relative and very difficult to operate, what little satisfaction could be a few years or decades of condemnation to those who caused them, in the face of the trouble that it has combined? We should therefore put in place a much stricter regulation on the criteria of prevention and control rather than repression: we have said so many times, but this temptation we can never take away.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u49	Mr President, in explaining the two agendas at my first signature, Mr G1,100 and Mr G1,102, I would like to make it very clear here that we immediately took responsibility for not tabling amendments, although we shared the battle and also the vote last time on the air gun and on the issue of exploration and drilling, on which I will then return, even in the light of what has happened, in our view, to the House. I would also like to say this here to Senator D'Alì, who I know has led the battle to the end: in the Chamber, in the combination between the amendment of Forza Italia and the favourable opinion of the Government, which evidently did not then bother to put at risk the approval of the bill, what we thought to be the last appointment has instead returned the text to the Senate for further reading. President Grasso, who has now taken over the presidency of the sitting, knows perfectly well how many times this year I have asked for the draft law which had long been in the Senate's Environment and Justice Commissions to be scheduled. For twenty years we have been fighting to make sure that in this country the scandal that gave birth to the term 'ecomafia', which I believe exists only in Italy and nowhere, to say how much the destruction of the environment to the detriment of the health of the citizens and the future of the new generations has become not only the subject of criminal affairs, but also the way in which many companies - certainly not those who wanted to live in legality - have disposed of waste at a very low price (we think about the whole issue of the illicit disposal of waste), because in reality they did not risk anything. The draft law under consideration, with its merits and even with some defects, is, however, a fundamental step for this country. For this reason, we did not assume the responsibility of tabling amendments that could make the time of the vote slip again, but on the question of drilling we wanted to present a specific agenda, because we will continue our initiative and our work. The Minister, who is now on the phone, knows this because we also discussed it in the Commission last week: it is a very simple agenda, which puts everyone' s attention to - and this House knows very well what I am talking about, as has also emerged from previous speeches - the danger not only of the air gun technique, but in general of all the procedure that began with that notorious article 38 of the Italian decree unlocks. The agenda therefore calls on the Government to release any authorization for marine research involving the use of this technique, in the case of immediate withdrawal of licences; it also commits the Government to urge the immediate launch of joint research projects within the European Union. Now, the Government, in the Council of Ministers, has approved the draft legislative decree. Therefore, all the more so, just waiting for the procedure in the competent Commissions, President Marinello has just declared that there will be a very strong attention to strengthen the transposition of the directive in the field of offshore. All the more reason, therefore, I think that the Government should accept the agenda and therefore suspend the issue of authorisations at least until the final approval of the measure is completed. You know perfectly well the trick that has been made with Article 38: to ensure that there is both the start of the investigation procedure and the release of concessions, delaying the transposition of the directive itself. Mr President, the other agenda at my first signature, the G1,100, addresses and wants to respond to one of the issues that some magistrates, and not only, have raised in recent days and which, moreover, in the passage here in the Senate, had seen the presentation of a series of amendments suppressing the term 'abusely', especially with regard to the case of the environmental disaster. From this point of view, this agenda calls on the Government to engage in something that I believe is important for all the legislation. I am referring to the Government's commitment to clarify the actual scope of the rule, in order to make effective the protection of the environment and the commitment to adapt, even in a systematic way, all the existing legislation on the environment, in order to exclude or strongly reduce the possibilities of contrasting it with the new criminal cases. I think that this agenda is also a way of responding to a number of concerns and, therefore, of ensuring that we can finally arrive at the adoption of this bill with more peace. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u50	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Marinello for his quote. I am addressing the citizens more than anything else. You often make us pass for those of the no, of the non-compromise. In general - we all know it here and also in the Commissions - the 5 Star Movement comes to compromise when there are two ideas - ours and yours - that aim at the good of the community. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We don't presume to say that our idea is the best. We always do. When is it that we don't compromise? When the compromise is with the thugs. See, for example, the issue of vitality. There you go down to compromise with the delinquents and this the 5 Star Movement does not. By entering into the substance of the agenda, two commitments are being asked of the Government. It is called for to promote, in appropriate fora, an integration into existing legislation aimed at introducing a ban on the use of air gun technology and other explosive techniques. As Senator Marinello said, I withdrew the amendment and turned it into an agenda. I address an invitation to Senator Marinello, but also to Senator Caleo, of whom I have read statements that the Government will undertake to sign it. It's been deposited since tonight. The second request that we make to the Government in terms of commitment, which I believe Mr Sollo will have difficulty accepting, is to suspend the release of new permits and authorizations for geo-seismic explorations that provide for the use of air gun technology and other similar techniques involving the use of explosions. Another agenda that I presented to the Commission and which was accepted with rewording, called on the Government to assess the suspension of new activities for the cultivation of liquid hydrocarbons within 12 miles of coast lines and protected marine and coastal areas until the transposition of the famous Directive No 30 of 2013. Think of Ombrina Mare, because those who speak to you live in front of this plant, which, unfortunately, is still alive, so much so that Friday, May 23, in the City of Lanciano, there will be an event, which I invite the present Senator Pezzopane to participate. A year ago, in fact, our regional newspaper "Il Centro" headlined that she had blocked the project Ombrina Mare. So, either these protesters are crazy and manifest against something that has already been stopped, or the senator just quoted declared the fake then and even had it published in the newspapers! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u51	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u52	I am against Amendments 1,101 and 1,102 (text 2). Amendment 1.5 has been turned into an agenda and therefore the text received is in favour. Amendment 1.6 has also been turned into an agenda and the opinion on it is in favour. The opinion was then opposed to all the remaining amendments. I am also in favour of the agenda G1,100, at the first signature of Senator De Petris, with the following rewording: the second and final paragraph of the premise is called for, i.e. the part which goes from sub-ordering the punishableness of a very serious event to where an authorisation was given to it; moreover, the commitment is accepted by the formula "to assess the appropriateness of". On the agenda G1.101, at the first signing of Senator Castaldi, the opinion was in favour of the first commitment and was also in favour of the second commitment, but with the addition of the formula "to assess the appropriateness of "." Senator Castaldi, however, listening to the opinion that I am about to express on the next order of G1.102, at the first signature of Senator De Petris, you will understand that the second commitment of your agenda G1.101, on which I gave a favourable opinion with the addition of the formula "to assess the appropriateness of "to" is included in the latter. The opinion on the agenda G1.102 was in favour of the first commitment with the following rewording: This reformulation also incorporates the third commitment. The opinion was in favour of the second commitment. Finally, the opinion was opposed to the agenda of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection (G1.104).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u53	I am in agreement with the rapporteur, but it is clear that the exact rewording of the agenda G1.102 is to suspend the authorisation of investigations in respect of the transposition of Directive 2013/30/EU, in order to comply with the commitment already made with the approval of the agenda G1.790.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u54	Senator Sollo, do you agree with that clarification? SOLLO, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask Senator De Petris, who was the first party to the agenda, to accept the request for reformulation. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to ask Senator Castaldi, the first party to the agenda, if he accepts the request for reformulation. CASTALDI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendments 1,200 and 1,100 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u57	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we have not tabled any amendments, although we have, as we have seen, been concerned with the issue that was introduced at the previous reading of the Senate. For this reason, in order to prevent the adoption of this draft law from happening again, we shall abstain on all these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u60	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I declare the 5 Star Movement abstaining, which is only motivated by the need to approve the measure. However, we are in favour of banning the use of air gun technology.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u63	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u64	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,101, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,102 (text 2), tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u67	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, for the whole of the Movement 5 Group, the vote on Amendment 1,102 (text 2) is against. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u68	We have already voted on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u69	SANTANGELO (M5S). I am telling you to correct our position in a vote against rather than abstention. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u70	The vote was there. We can't vote again.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u71	SANTANGELO (M5S). I am sorry, Mr President, I was telling you that there was a mistake of communication in giving an indication of vote and the entire 5 Star Movement wanted to vote against the previous amendment. I'm asking you to put it to the record. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] I repeat, we were wrong to vote on Amendment No 1.102 (text 2), Mr President, and we call for it to be put to the vote. NUGNES (M5S). Only on this one. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I cannot correct the vote. We take your statement to the record. SANTANGELO (M5S). We've done it dozens of times. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We cannot vote again because the vote has been taken. We take note of your statement. SANTANGELO (M5S). I did not ask you to repeat the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So I'm sorry, I didn't get it before.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u74	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to take note of my vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u75	The Presidency takes note of this. Amendments 1.5 and 1.6 have been changed to agendas G1.5 and G1.6 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. Amendment 1.4 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 1,103, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u78	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, with this amendment, I intend to replace the sanction of imprisonment with the administrative penalty, which seems to me to be more correct in the event that there is precisely a cause of prejudice and where there is damage to other economic activities. As I said in my general speech, a political choice between economic activities may give priority to one and compromise another, but I hope that at least that compromised one can be the subject of damages, of course where recognised. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the risk that we run the risk of seeing an environmental disaster file open one day for those who do not use this technique will never occur, but it would be much more appropriate to avoid this risk and prevent it by establishing its non-use. Obviously you are making another choice and we hope then that we do not have to one day - as I said just now - have the thin satisfaction of commanding a few years of jail and having a sea no longer practicable, because of its high pollution by hydrocarbons.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u79	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8 tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.10 has been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1,100 (text 2), G1,101 (text 2), and G1,102 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.104, tabled by Senator Pepe and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I recall that Articles 2 and 3 are identical to Articles 2 and 3 of the text approved by the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u82	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, would I like to know whether the explanations of vote will be taken all this evening or, given the time, will some be taken tomorrow? [[Comments of Senator Airola]] I ask this because I believe that they should all be held at the same sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u83	We're starting with your explanation of vote, Senator Arrigoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u84	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). What if we don't finish later? [[Comments by Senators Crosio and Taverna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u87	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I make a proposal. Given that we would all like to make an explanation of vote on the same day and at the same time, so that there are no senators who make the explanation of vote today and others who do it tomorrow, I propose, if possible and if my group leaders agree, that we postpone the explanations of vote until tomorrow. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If there are no comments... [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u90	MARTON (M5S). I disagree, Mr President. I'd like it to end tonight, if that's possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u91	The agenda requires that we continue, except for the agreement of all the Leaders. Since the subject has been widely debated and we are at the fourth evaluation in the House, between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, we can also believe that explanations of vote can be contained, so that we can end up in the evening. [[Applause from Senator Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u94	TONINI (PD). President, you anticipated me. We have a choice between two hypotheses: if we consider making explanations of vote with the time normally used to carry them out, it will mean that we will proceed to the final vote tomorrow morning. In this case, I think we could accept the League's request. This is my appeal to colleagues in the 5 Star Movement. Nothing changes: it would mean voting two hours before or two hours later. If, on the other hand, we want to conclude with the final vote this evening, we must ensure that explanations of vote are contained very quickly. The difference is between voting this evening or tomorrow morning. It seems irrelevant to me whether explanations of vote are all taken this evening or tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u95	I make a proposal: five minutes for each group for explanations of vote in such a way as to conclude this evening? [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] Let's move on, then. There is no reason to close the sitting sooner than expected. [[Applause from Senator Casini]] I call Mr Arrigoni for his explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u96	Mr President, I would like to take the time to explain the reasoning and reflections of the North League on this measure. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as I have already mentioned in my speech in general, the measure, which records a positive assessment for the North League compared to the aim that is - as I recall - the protection of the environment, as it now comes in its final formation, contains some critical issues that we want to reiterate and highlight. The first consideration that I repeat starts from the assumption that the penal code must be reviewed with extreme care and attention. When new offences are introduced, the rule requires them to be written in accordance with a principle of exhaustiveness, that is, in a clear and comprehensive manner. This is necessary in order to avoid that the good end of the introduction of a crime is then translated into an excess of discretion and will in the application of the crime by the magistrate. It is for this reason that for us the provision with too general expressions and the critical use of adverbs such as "abusely" and adjectives risks becoming a staple to hinder the economic development of our honest companies that already have difficulties in terms of competitiveness to impose themselves on the market. I would like to make a second point which is purely political. I would like to express it to my colleagues in the majority and, in particular, to the Senators of the Democratic Party. Premier Renzi's party, on the one hand, states that too many crimes have been introduced in recent years and, therefore, calls for decriminalization, as you have done in the various measures emptied prisons or, in order to stay up to date, as is being done with the legislative decree on the tenuity of the fact (which in fact, with a maxi pardon, repealing as many as 157 crimes, guarantees full impunity to criminals, putting even more at risk the safety of citizens) and, on the other hand, in total inconsistency with what you are saying and acting, introduce new cases of crime with particularly high sanctions, even badly formulated, which appear dictated by a generalized logic of punishment and justice. There is no doubt that, on the one hand, many criminal cases are decriminalised and, on the other hand, today you introduce - I repeat and stress - albeit with a noble, correct and fair end, other criminal cases for which the principle of taxability is unnoticed. A third and final consideration starts from the assumption that, in order to effectively protect the environment, new criminal offences are not enough, but they are necessary to control the territory, providing the Forces of the order, specialized in the matter and not, more properly trained means and personnel. Instead, we record the government's will to compress, with absorption, the Forest Corps of the State and, with the Delrio reform, to dismantle the bodies of provincial police. This suggests that, despite the introduction of new criminal rules, the impact, the deterrent and preventive force and the effectiveness in the repression of certain phenomena will still remain limited, given the operational deficiencies on the ground. To conclude, well the end, the protection of the environment, for which the League - I remember - has always been spent, without penalising and hindering the work of our entrepreneurs. On the other hand, the incoherence of the majority on criminal law: on the one hand, decriminalized and, on the other, on the other hand (e.g. for pure propaganda, populism and demagogy), you introduce new crimes with many discretionary elements. I would point out that it will be important, in view of the remarks made in today's debate, those of the previous days and sessions and the concerns expressed by some members of the majority, who, in the near future, I believe, not later than the two years of application of the law, make the same a coupon to seriously assess the need to make the necessary corrections. However, in the light of the foregoing considerations, the Lega Nord Group, as it did at second reading and as our colleagues in the House have done, will abstain on the final vote on the measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u99	COMPAGNONE (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Mr President, as a Group, we voted in favour of the measure on the previous occasion, because we thought that we could finally give this country rules and rules that would prevent or, at least, block and punish environmental crimes, which is certainly right, above all expected for years and owe it to our country. However, we cannot fail to note that there are considerable contradictions in this Government which, on the one hand, brings us this provision and the law of European delegation, which we have approved, while, on the other hand, it does nothing in all these months, despite our calls and our remarks, to make the implementing decrees, that is, to give body and make the things that are said and which are affirmed become real. And this spread, the difference between what is said and what is done, is what we wanted to highlight. Mr Arrigoni is right when he says that there is no homogeneity in the approach and strategy of this government when, on the one hand, he says that he wants to strike environmental crimes, but then dismantles that police force that serves to control and suppress environmental crimes. There is a difference, an incongruity, an extraordinary contradiction between all that is said and what is then done, because a government that would have wanted to be consistent with the things it says, should have done immediately the implementing decrees of the Community norms, which has not been done. That this happened in extremes a few days ago, it says a lot about the will to do so: basically it was only because today we would have discussed, for the umpteenth time, the measure that we are preparing to vote on, so not because we had the good will to do so. And it still doesn't have to be done quickly, because it's gonna have to go through the Commissions. I appreciate the effort that the President of the Marinello Commission is making to try to quickly reach a more stringent norm, but as usual to the good faith of Senator Marinello probably does not correspond what is instead in the head of this Government, which for a whole series of mechanisms, as we have seen with the unblock Italy, tends instead to deal with these matters with much superficiality. This is also demonstrated by the fact that, in recent months, this rule has not been used intelligently and has not been dealt with in a conscious and scientific way on the subject of air gun, really entering into the substance of the problem, debating it, creating a table to regulate this technique: instead, it has been thought of doing something that screams even with the good rules and rules of Parliament. An amendment which had been debated in this branch of Parliament, and which had been approved here, was then, by the will of the Government, blocked in the Chamber of Deputies and for this reason it returns to the Senate. All this screams very much, it does not make us feel calm and does not lead us to trust the attitudes of this Government. That is why we are very much combated and perhaps we might seem contradictory having approved the measure in a first instance and then not approving it at this later stage. For these reasons, leaving our group free to vote on the basis of conscience, I believe that I will abstain from voting. Since basically all the groups have withdrawn, it is actually opening up, this evening in the Senate, another credit to the Government for doing well; we are deciding to take in good what President Marinello and Minister Galletti tell us, namely that we want to approve the implementing decree quickly and then, especially in the Commission, to introduce even more stringent rules, possibly taking into account the debate that has taken place in this House. That's what I'm thinking. I therefore declare my abstention and, I repeat, I leave the members of my Group free to vote, as we have always done, according to their consciences. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u102	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we have arrived at the final moment, after a long time, and I believe I must thank all those who have fought in recent years - associations, committees, magistrates, men of the Forces of Order, people who have also lost their lives - for finally arriving in Italy too, Mr President, to include environmental crimes within the penal code, because ours was, to date, one of the few cases in the West in which this did not exist. The work that has been done has been a complex work, in which we believe that further improvements could also be made, but I hope - and I do not want to go back on this - that we will be able to improve it further in the future. We are finally in a situation that will allow us to respect the constitutional dictates, because in these twenty-one years of all this has been completely defiant and this has allowed us to grow in this country, as I said before by illustrating the agenda, a criminal economy with a turnover, in my opinion underestimated, of 15 billion. And who has prevented in all these long years from ensuring that, finally, even in our country, the damage caused by environmental pollution, the environmental disaster were considered real crimes? It was, in my opinion, a very precise and active cross-cutting lobby that put before us the reasons for a sick economy, which looked at the profit achieved in every way and which at times caused almost irreparable damage not only to our territories, but also to the health of our citizens. I would like to remind you here of the latest data from the 2013 Legambiente report. In Italy there are more than 80 environmental crimes per day, more than three per hour, and all this has been answered always and only by considering them a little more or less of crimes punishable by a violation. Not only that, it was a sick economy that was organized for lobbying and pervicaciously continued to hinder these measures. How many times have we been almost on the verge of approving the environmental bill and then something always happened? For this reason, once again, we were disappointed when the House again wanted to change the text to get him back to the Senate and for this - I mean - the Government also bears its great responsibilities. At last, with this text, perhaps a new phase begins in our country because we introduce new cases in the Italian penal code, with five possible offences. In this way we will finally have the opportunity not only to put an end to that sick economy but to activate, through the strong stimulus of these norms, new initiatives aimed at putting hand to the other side of the issue, which is all in the responsibility of each of us and above all of the Government. I am thinking of environmental subsidies and, at the same time, of all those who are waiting for justice, Mr President. The decision on asbestos has reopened the eyes of many citizens and today we owe our vote in favour to them and to all the other victims who unfortunately will continue to be there in recent years. This means taking responsibility today - as we have done, despite the great regret that we cannot reintegrate the air gun rule - for finally giving this country civil legislation. Only in our country were environmental crimes not considered to be such, except for illicit trafficking where we saw that results were obtained. That is why we shall be voting in favour of this draft law, which we have contributed with the presentation of a provision to both the Senate and the House, although, I repeat, we still need to do a lot of work and tidy up the issues. We hope, however, that a new page will be opened. Mr President, I would also like to take this opportunity to ask that, with the adoption of this bill, the Government should return to the unholy choice of merging the Forestry Police, instead giving rise to a real, great and strong Environmental Police. In fact, it is not enough just to consider certain crimes conducted (even if it is already an important result), but it is necessary to ensure that these crimes are then prosecuted and punished. In this way the enterprises, which thought it was more convenient to destroy our territories, today will have to go to trial and finally be punished for what they have done in recent years. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u105	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, since it will take only a few minutes, I will not repeat what I said at first reading here in the Senate about the validity of the law, but also about the criticality of the law that we are about to adopt. Personally, I am convinced that the excellent is often an enemy of good. Surely there are critical points that will need to be examined, but this, like all the laws, will have a period of break-in and verification: to use the words of the rapporteur Sollo, therefore, there will certainly be the opportunity to raise the shot and perfect it. That is the significance of the amendment tabled today by the other rapporteur, Mr Albertini: on certain issues - and I am referring in particular to the subject of active repentance - further improvements could have been made, but we know that parliamentary and political times did not allow this, at least at this stage. The presentation of this amendment therefore had a purely political significance, so much so that the rapporteur himself, at the same time, withdrew it. With regard to the controversial point on air gun, we have already discussed it in the explanation of vote: we know how things went, but here I want to reiterate the main role played by the Senate of the Republic and above all by some Members, including those who have negotiated with the Government. I am referring to the political group that I represent here, the New Right Centre: I want to acknowledge, among other things, the great commitment and great willingness of our leader, Senator Schifani, who, on this subject, also pushed the Government last week with a question to which Minister Guidi came to answer. For this very reason, we will say that we are satisfied here, but careful. We will be ready to intervene in the competent Commissions to go to perfect the decree of transposition, precisely to make it more stringent and give the guarantees that the Senate had asked for at first reading, giving them above all to the coastal populations, who await from us an intelligent and wise protection of the sea and the marine environment, whose beauty represents the true richness of our country. These are the reasons why we are voting in favour, Mr Galletti, who, at this stage, in the negotiations with the rest of the Government and especially with the potentates represented by the lobbyists who often hang in Parliament - and I am referring to those who care for the interests of Assomineraria and the oilmen - was able to make good use of the Dicastery he represents and his mission. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u108	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, it was hard, but we did it: 'Finally', said Vice President Luigi Di Maio yesterday. Today, thanks to the decisive support of the 5 Star Movement, Italy can have a law that punishes environmental crimes in the penal code, which bears the signature of our deputy Salvatore Micillo. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] With the approval of the law on eco-reactors, we realize one of the most important points of our program: it is a historical date, because it has taken twenty years to have in the penal code these five types of environmental crimes. It was necessary for the 5 Star Movement to enter Parliament in order to obtain a law that no one before us had managed to bring about approval. We started this work two years ago listening to all the judges, citizens and committees, and we were able to implement this important programme. From now on, it will be more difficult for any polluter to escape the law: it is a victory that we dedicate to all the polluted people, to the victims of the prescribed sentences, of the Eternit, of the Land of fires and of the ILVA, as well as to future generations, so that all this does not happen anymore. I therefore declare the vote in favour of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u111	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Forza Italia will vote against this measure. We believe that it is absolutely necessary to combat and suppress - to be prevented, if possible - cases in which someone, whatever the reason (whether to carry out an industrial activity or for any other reason), seriously compromises the environment. Those who seriously undermine the environment must be punished and effectively punished: sanctions must then be effective. The cases mentioned, such as that of the so-called Land of Fires or the Eternit case in my region, or as well as other cases of this kind that have compromised health and, in some cases, caused the death of tens and hundreds of people, must be severely punished. However, these cases cannot be equated with episodes of a completely different gravity, where there is no danger for people and where there is no irremediable damage, really irremediable. These incidents must of course be punished, because of course every violation of the law must be punished, but you cannot approve a law that does not speak of quisquilies, but of years and years in prison. For the crime of environmental disaster is expected from five to fifteen years, with the increased penalty, to read paragraph 4, practically in all cases. In fact, the penalty has increased when the episode takes place in areas protected from the archaeological point of view, historical, natural, environmental and so on. Italy, thank God, is very rich in all these things. As for the crime of pollution, it is expected a sentence from two to six years, with very vague formulations, which leave everything to the discretion of the magistrate. There is talk of significant deterioration (what is significant?) Water or air. What does that mean? There is talk of extensive or significant portions of soil and subsoil. What is significant? This would be the crime of environmental pollution: from two to six years in prison. There is talk of an ecosystem being compromised. What is an ecosystem? I repeat: what is it? It can be the whole planet; it can be a pond; it can be a puddle. Where is he? What's that ecosystem? We are talking about biodiversity: another very vague concept. Theoretically, by suppressing any insect or even plant, biodiversity is somehow compromised (not a species, but a single individual). We are talking about environmental disaster (with a sentence of five to fifteen years) with reference to the alteration of the balance of an ecosystem - we are talking about the ecosystem - whose elimination is particularly costly. What does it mean to be particularly costly? Especially expensive for an individual (maybe a craftsman or a grower) or particularly expensive for the state? You don't know. Then there is another very curious thing: I am referring to the environmental impact. The same crime is punished more severely (i.e. the penalty increased from one third to even half) if it is committed in order to execute one of the offences mentioned herein. Therefore, the same act - the forgery of a document, for example, or the violation of a home or land to which access is prohibited - is punished in a normal way if it is to do something like blowing up a school with all children and teachers in; if, on the other hand, the act is aimed at opening the tap of a landfill (for goodness sake, you do not have to open the tap of a landfill without purifier), it is punished in a more serious way. Does this make sense or is it simply a question of wanting to respond to a request in a scam-like way? In fact, those who make populist and demagogic measures are not because they take the opinion of the people into great consideration, but because they take it into account as if it were a stupid opinion, as if it were an opinion that you can lead by the nose with some senseless measure even in the formulation. Very well, then that these penalties be applied to the great polluters, bearing in mind that, since we are in a civil state, this measure will not be applied retroactively. Therefore, no one thinks that this provision can be applied to the Eternit case or to other cases of this kind, which would deserve a very serious sanction. However, this is inevitable. Sadly, someone's gonna get involved in some sort of incident. Above all, the same behavior risks facing a very low penalty with a magistrate and a very high penalty with another. In fact, in some cases it's the same crime. Let us remember, in fact, that it is already a crime to pollute today. Contrary to what someone here says, it is not true that until now it was not a crime to pollute. Therefore, the laws may be applied to someone and they will not be charged with the crime of environmental disaster, while others, for the same episode, may be contested the environmental crime with penalties from five to ten years of imprisonment. This uncertainty is not just a harm to the person. It is said that the polluter, even if he has polluted little or by accident, must be punished and served from ten to fifteen years in prison. But perhaps this is not the right way to proceed, because we must make right laws, not proclaim laws, of which we can then boast at conferences, but laws that work, that are right and that have two qualities, in particular in this case: preventing pollution and environmental disasters, and allowing those who work honestly to work. And I don't say that, but the president of Confindustria who is the representative of Italian entrepreneurs. He spoke of this kind of crime asking who would come to invest in Italy knowing to risk a criminal penalty in case of an accident to which he has suffered remedy. As jobs do not overflow, since we are at the historic record of unemployment of all time, this is an extra incentive for companies. If they have money to invest and want to build some facilities, then they do it somewhere else, where crimes are severely punished, as we ourselves have asked for in our amendments, but clearly. We have supported a number of amendments which, even, increased the penalties, but in the face of a clear definition of the crime. It is not possible to punish in general those who pollute. It is not possible to punish in the same way the criminal who causes the death of hundreds of people and the craftsman or farmer who, out of carelessness (who must not have and must be punished), damages a land, a pond or a puddle. Of course, this crime must also be punished, but it cannot be punished in the same way. That is why we shall vote against this measure. Precisely because we want clear and effective laws to protect the environment. Defending the environment does not mean discouraging and running away entrepreneurs and productive activities. We cannot vote on Tuesday afternoon a law that makes companies run away and, starting from Wednesday morning, complain because there is so much unemployment and hope that the Government, in its enlightened wisdom, intervenes, perhaps distributing some gifts here and there and making it pass as an incentive to the recovery of employment: incentive that, however, there is nowhere. Let us be careful, therefore. Here we must fight pollution, we must not fight employment. It seems to me, on the other hand, that employment is being combated here: in other words, that unemployment is being promoted. As far as the environment is concerned, I fear that what you are voting for is extremely ineffective. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u114	Mr Caleo (PD). Mr President, I wanted to tell a small, but great, Italian story. Unfortunately, the House has decided to vote this evening and I shall therefore minimise this story. It is a very important story, however, because it wants to give a signal to those who died to fight for the environment, sacrificing their lives. I'm talking about Captain De Grazia. When we gave him the honorary citizenship of La Spezia, his wife said that she hoped that what her husband had done would not be rendered void by hollow laws that would not put a person who committed crimes on the stand. Captain De Grazia fought the famous ship phenomenon to lose, and he lost our lives. Today we do justice to him and we do justice to the many who have sacrificed themselves to fight this evil. The choice that Parliament is preparing to make today, by adopting this bill, is to assert strongly that the criminal use of common goods is no longer possible. We know that the criminal process is not the remedy for any antisocial behaviour, but this rule is first and foremost a cultural message, strong and unequivocal. It is a response to the unpunished crimes of Casale Monferrato, Bussi sul Tirino, of the land of fires; a response to the virtuous enterprises that see constantly damaged the principle of competition by those entrepreneurs unscrupulously who think that those who pollute in the end do not pay. It is also a response to the continuous expenditure of public money related to complex investigations, which are ultimately made useless by the prescription, and the very high costs of environmental recovery. Today, with the approval of the measure under consideration, which introduces in the penal code four new cases of crime, such as environmental pollution and environmental disaster, traffic crimes and the abandonment of high radioactivity material, the impediment of control and omission of reclamation, our judicial system will finally be able to give an adequate sanctioning response to serious behavior. Today we put at the centre the primary value of the protection of the legal good environment, in a logic of remedial justice. We are not against the productive world as they have accused us; we listen to the expressions of perplexity that have come to us from several parts with regard to certain principles: we will listen and monitor the law and, if necessary, we will change it. In concluding, Mr President, I believe that the adoption of this draft law certainly goes to the memory of Commander De Grazia and of all those who, like him, sacrificed their lives in the course of investigations into the fight against environmental crimes, so that we know that their sacrifice has not been in vain. Today this debate in Parliament also ennobles those who have died and renders justice, above all, to the many victims, who have been left without blame, of the damage caused by environmental pollution. Nothing and no one can fill the gap left by these deaths in the lives of relatives and friends, parents, wives, children. With this legislative act today, at least in part, Parliament restores dignity to these deaths and it is because the memory and the work of those who have put the legality and protection of the environment before their personal safety should not be lost but, instead, be preserved - and serve as an example to all of us and to future generations - that I declare the vote firmly in favour of the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u117	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u118	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD, M5S and Misto-SEL groups and from the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u121	SOLLO, rapporteur. Mr President, I just want to say thank you to everyone. After twenty-one years we have succeeded and I think it is a source of pride on the part of everyone. I thank the Presidents of the Commissions 2nd and 13th, in particular the President Marinello who chose me, at my first parliamentary term, and I am proud to have contributed. I thank my group leaders who have helped me a lot and all the groups, even those who have opposed it. Tonight we put a first stone and finally in the penal code those who pollute pay, then slowly we will be able to improve the points that have remained a little 'dark. Thank you all. We finally did it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u124	Mr Albano (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out to this House that, while the first signs of economic recovery in Italy - last week's news - are manifesting, with GDP rising again and increasing by 0.3%, in the West of Liguria these signals are slow to arrive. In addition to the dispute that concerns the future of the Pastificio Agnesi in Imperia, it has recently been learned that the pharmaceutical plant Cipriani Srl, located in Ventimiglia, is also preparing for closure. Cipriani Srl is part of the Arkopharma Group, the European leader in the production and distribution of herbal medicinal products and food supplements. Now, despite the active budgets and the presence of rather recent means of production, of only ten years, the management of the Montagu private equity group, owner of Arkopharma, has decided to close, in July 2016, the Ventimigliese plant, in order to move the production to France, to the plant site in Carros, Nice. The Ligurian territory, already hard hit by the economic crisis and characterized by a higher unemployment rate than the other regions of Northern Italy, risks losing additional high-specialization jobs - 63 - in an area, such as the West of Liguria, where it has been established with the outcome of the process called "The turning point," the rooted presence of organized crime. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that the lack of opportunities for work and hope in the future can push people to give in to the offers of organised crime. This is not just about the work crisis that affects the employees of a plant, but about the signals that are given to the territories, because Italy has to share everything, without leaving anyone behind. Therefore, we must give the hardest hit territories new signs of hope for the future. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u127	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking instead of our Parent Company, Senator Centinario, just to point out that after the spread - alas - of procedures involving the combustion in thermo-to-energy and especially cement plants, of secondary solid fuel, whose emissions are not yet known what the effects are both on the environment and especially on human health (because the Higher Institute of Health has not yet dealt with it, and so the various regional agencies for the protection of the environment, which have not yet started campaigns for verification and monitoring), there are also applications for the construction of plant in Italy. These are new technology plants and - let it be said by the way - there is a request for the installation of this new type of plant in the Municipality of Retorbido, in the province of Pavia, which is causing considerable concern, especially in the population that resides in that Municipality and in the neighbouring ones. So mine wants to be an appeal to the government, since we have just fired a measure that introduces new cases of crime in the matter of damage to the environment, to activate The Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research and the Higher Institute for Health, in a preventive and later monitoring logic of the quality of emissions from these plants, which will certainly cause negative problems both with regard to the environment and - above all - with regard to the protection of human health.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u130	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, the subject will seem to be off-season, but precisely because it is off-season it is current. The balance sheets of the ski resorts now begin to be seen on the tables of the owners of infrastructure linked to the ski resorts. As announced by the Government, even on the basis of a judgment, it seems that it will have to start paying the IMU on the ski resorts. The fundamental problem, Mr President, is that in Lombardy there are 48 operators of these plants who are in great difficulty and, therefore, this tax will probably put some of these plants in a position to no longer have the capacity to be productive and, therefore, to remain open. About 15,000 people work on these fixed and induced installations, whose jobs are at risk. I wanted to talk about a situation that concerns Lombardy, the Province of Bergamo. In Val Seriana we have three or four ski lifts, Mount Pora, Colere, Valbondione, of which I will speak more specifically about the issue related to the facilities and the open spaces. They are all systems that have a great difficulty to remain open also, as we know, for the little snow and, therefore, for the unpredictability of the weather conditions. Valbondione has about 1,100 inhabitants and its economy is based almost exclusively on tourism. In 2014, in the face of the disastrous situation caused by the failure of the ski management company, which led to the closure of the activity, with the support of the municipal administration the community of the fraction of Lizzola has invested economic and human resources to try to restart the sector. With great sacrifices it was possible to set up an Onlus social cooperative and to restart the activity for the 2014-2015 season. We believe that taxation on installations, already in great difficulty because of the huge operating costs they have to face in order to keep these structures open, could cause permanent closure, especially for small realities such as that of the site of our fraction of Lizzola. In a Val Seriana already marked by an economic crisis that has touched textiles and manufacturing in general, this is yet another tile that will fall on the mountain areas. Perhaps more than the areas of mountains, to be penalized will once again be the tourist sector, what should be the flagship of this country. We have to consider this: no one wants to escape payment of the IMU on commercial activities, but the lifts should not and should not be taxed in the most absolute way. Someone said it would be like taxing railroad tracks; instead I say that you are taxing even the gravel that is between the sleepers of this railroad. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u133	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). I would like to put a fairly serious problem to this House. In recent days on the press offices of my Province, the president of the Province of Cremona, belonging to the PD, highlighted the dramatic situation in which the Province accounts are located. The dramatic situation is due to all the cuts made. In particular, I would like to bring this matter to the attention of the Government, because the President himself has said that he will be in a situation of having to take away the hours of support for those families with disabled children. I consider this to be an unacceptable situation. These handicapped children are already living in a dramatic situation. The hours of support are given to non-rich families who are not in favourable economic situations. We therefore call for the Government to pay attention to these situations, because in a civilised state they must not take place. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u134	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-452.ana.u135	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.05 p.m.
