ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 15 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u10	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor for a few minutes, because I want to remind you here of the disappearance of one of our colleagues, Senator Lorenzo Cappelli, who disappeared last Thursday. He was senator in the X legislature of the Senate. I want to remember him as a simple and polite man, but also from the blood hardening, typically Romagna. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u11	Colleagues, Senator Bianconi is commemorating a missing colleague. I think we should at least give her some silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u12	Go ahead, Senator Bianconi. Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). He was born together with Christian Democracy and since then has always militated in those ranks. He was mayor for fifty years: a record that earned him a prize not only at Italian level, but even at European level. In love with the land of Romagna, for it had founded the Movement of the autonomy of Romagna, knowing very well that the Romagna had been united to Emilia only with a hyphen but that nothing bound them: neither culture, nor language (the dialect is recognized even at the UN), nor all the history that had been created in Romagna. This is what is said of him in Romagna: he was a Galantom, which in Romagna means a serious man, laid down, a solid man, a man with a whole spine, a man who did not come to terms, a man who loved his people, his people, his land. Madam President, I cry a friend, and above all I cry a master of good politics. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u13	The Presidency, considering that it interprets the sentiments of this House, shares the sentiments of condolence of Senator Bianconi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u14	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1728, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pignedoli, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u15	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today, in dealing with this measure, I believe that we are taking a significant step: not only because it takes place on the days when we are going towards the conclusion of the greatest international confrontation that has ever taken place in our country on food and its implications, but because the parliamentary classrooms in discussing a system for the protection of biodiversity, they state that this is not a matter for those involved in the work, which only concerns researchers or fundamentalists of the environment, but is a vital issue for us all, for the future of the next generations. The loss of biodiversity, which is progressing with accelerations never seen in the past centuries, can determine the quantity and quality of food and water resources. The loss or conservation of biodiversity can determine the state and level of genetic resources that interacting with each other form essential balances for life on earth. It is therefore not a matter for those involved, but it is a matter for all civil society which is increasingly calling for action and participation in decisions. I also think it is doubly significant that we are once again addressing this issue, the Parliament of the country which has in its richness of biodiversity, a unique distinctiveness. But there is not enough awareness. A few numbers are enough to give the measure of the precious heritage that we have and of which we need to become more aware. We are first in Europe for biodiversity. Italy alone has 50% of plant species of European heritage. We own 30 percent of animal species (58,000 animal species, the European record); 1,200 native vines (the world record; France, the country of wine is 222). We are first for varieties of olives 538 (the second country, Spain, has 70). Dedicating ourselves to the protection of this heritage means devoting ourselves to its future, to investing in a natural capital that is given to us for a crossroads of conditions that we must know, that we must study more in order to receive and transmit its value, from investment in environmental improvement and, therefore, health, up to biodiversity as an added value of production, as a valuable factor of competitiveness in the international economic scenario. That is why today we are preparing to adopt a bill which seeks to establish a system for the protection of this natural, cultural and economic capital. This system, precisely because of its complexity, calls for more actors to contribute to the protection action, from institutions to producers. Approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the bill contains a series of provisions aimed at the protection and enhancement of biodiversity of an agricultural and food nature in order to define a unified regulatory framework for the activities of these sectors already initiated by the State and the Regions, in implementation of the international treaties ratified by Italy and the strategies defined at European and international level. The main act of reference is the Rio de Janeiro Convention on Biological Diversity of 1992 together with the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, approved at the FAO Conference in 2001. At European level, the commitment of the Community institutions has been reflected in a number of acts, which often cross-reference the various policies of the Union. At national level, in addition to the preparation in 2010 of the National Biodiversity Strategy, the National Biodiversity Plan of Agricultural Interest was developed by the Ministry of Agriculture in 2008 to coordinate the initiatives of national and international bodies and to define a common method of work and approach, in order to make specific interventions homogeneous and comparable results. Many regions have then undertaken various actions to protect agricultural biodiversity through study and research initiatives, projects to safeguard varieties and local breeds and specific laws in this area. In this very complex context, the measure we are debating is aimed at laying down a framework regulation that integrates and puts into place the different legislative levels reflecting the essential elements indicated by international legislation. In the Commission's examination, corrections were made to the text which made it more precise. The Commission has done this with the support of all the groups for this, and I would like to thank my colleagues from the various groups not formally. I would also like to thank Mr Formigoni, who has effectively coordinated reading and amending this measure. Moving on to the illustration of the main themes of the article, Article 1 declines the object and purposes of the measure with reference to the international and national acts mentioned above, highlighting the particular importance of the protection of the rural territory from phenomena of depopulation and genetic pollution. The structure of the national system for the protection and enhancement of biodiversity of agricultural and food interest is defined, the obligation for the administrations and public bodies concerned to provide data and information, and the possibility to promote projects aimed at the exploitation and transmission of knowledge on biodiversity. Article 2 sets out the definitions, with particular regard to genetic resources, local resources, farmers and farmers, and the protection of animals. I would like to make an inscription in saying that with the term "guardian breeders" (already coined by some regions) it was not intended to convey a bucolic interpretation of the role of farmers, but rather an emphasis on the level of responsibility that those who first have to work within the logic of sustainability and protection, those who must be increasingly equipped in new skills and high awareness, those who require a growth of training and professionalism adapted to the epochal challenges they face. Article 3 provides for the establishment of the National Register of Biodiversity of Agricultural and Food Interest, indicating all local genetic resources of plant, animal or microbial origin at risk of extinction or genetic erosion, after verification of the requirements. The same article stipulates that genetic resources entered in the Register shall be kept under public responsibility and control and shall not be subject to intellectual property rights or other rights or technology restricting their access or reproduction to farmers, nor may they be protected by plant variety rights. According to an amendment approved in the Commission, the endangered species according to the FAO classification are also included in the Register as a matter of law. The National Network of Agricultural and Food Biodiversity is also established, consisting of local, regional and national structures for the conservation of ex situ germplasm, as well as farmers and guardian farmers. This Network is entrusted with the function of carrying out any activity aimed at preserving local genetic resources from the risk of extinction and at encouraging their re-introduction into cultivation or other forms of exploitation. Article 5 establishes the National Biodiversity Portal of agricultural and food interest, with the aim of establishing a system of interconnected databases and enabling the dissemination of information and monitoring. Article 6 requires the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies and the Regions to identify public and private entities to activate the ex situ conservation of local genetic resources, while the identification of guardian farmers to activate the in situ conservation of local genetic resources at risk is returned to the Regions. The next article deals with how to update the National Biodiversity Plan of Agricultural Interest and the National Guidelines for the Conservation of Plant, Animal and microbial Biodiversity of Agricultural Interest. With an amendment introduced in the Commission it has been established that the Plan data are updated periodically and in any case at least every five years. Article 8 establishes the Standing Committee on Biodiversity of Agricultural and Food Interest. With an amendment introduced in the Commission, a representative of the Ministry of Health will also be included in the Committee. Article 9 deals with the code of industrial property, in order to clarify that the plant varieties registered with the National Register of Biodiversity of agricultural and food interest are not patented, as well as the varieties from which they derive products marked by certified marks. Article 10 establishes, as from 2015, the Fund for the protection of biodiversity of agricultural and food interest, in particular to support the actions of farmers and farmers under the measure. Article 11 deals with the marketing of seed of conservation varieties, extending the right to sell such seed through direct sales and at local level and introducing the right to free trade in seed within the National Biodiversity Network of agricultural and food interest. The State and the Regions are asked to carry out regular promotional campaigns to protect and enhance biodiversity, providing for special itineraries to promote knowledge of the local genetic resources enrolled in the Anagraphe and for the development of the territories concerned. Article 13 provides for the possibility of promoting the establishment of food and biodiversity communities of agricultural and food interest as local areas resulting from agreements between farmers, associations, bodies and public institutions. Awareness-raising actions, such as the establishment of Biodiversity Day, or initiatives and actions at schools aimed at knowledge of food products and local resources are envisaged. Article 16 provides for actions for biodiversity research to be included in the current Council's three-year work plan for agricultural research and analysis of the agricultural economy (CREA), for which an annual share should be reserved within the scope of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry Policy. Article 17 lays down implementing provisions in relation to the forecasts referred to in Articles 3, 4 and 7, referring to a subsequent ministerial decree, while Article 18 provides for the financial coverage of the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u16	We greet the students and teachers of the Istituto tecnico stato per il settore economico. "Raffaele Piria" in Reggio Calabria, who are today visiting the Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u19	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, I would like to make a request. Since two amendments have been tabled by the rapporteur, one on yesterday and one at about 2 p.m. today, I would like to ask whether it would be possible to allow time for these amendments to take place or to find a solution, to be agreed with the Presidency and the rapporteur, in order to produce the acts relating to the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u20	As far as Amendment 6,300 is concerned, it seems to me that the rapporteur has announced its withdrawal. Do you confirm what I just said, Senator Pignedoli? PIGNEDOLI, rapporteur. Yes, Madam President, I have withdrawn Amendment 6,300. PRESIDENT. - The debate is On the other hand, Amendment No 16,100 is confirmed, but it was sent to all the groups last night. We can allow 20 minutes for submission of sub-amendments. I would therefore urge you, Senator Donno, to take care of this within twenty minutes so that we can then proceed with the examination of the measure. However, the sitting will not be suspended because the text had already been sent to the groups last night. WOMAN (M5S). Yeah, but there were no terms. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You could table amendments until the beginning of today's sitting. WOMAN (M5S). Excuse me, Madam President, I could not present them, because the time has not been set for them to do so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, you may table amendments before the beginning of the sitting for the debate on the amendments. This in terms of the Rules of Procedure. Before the beginning of the debate and the sitting, you may submit sub-amendments. I give you a reading of Rule 100 (4) of the Rules of Procedure: The amendments, if signed by eight senators, may also be tabled on the same day of the debate, provided that the presentation takes place at least one hour before the beginning of the sitting. Since the amendments were sent yesterday, including the rapporteur's amendment No 16,100, which will not be withdrawn, although the sitting has begun, the Presidency believes that it will allow another 20 minutes in the general debate so that you can, if necessary, amend the rapporteur's amendment No 16,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u21	Thank you for giving me these 20 minutes, Madam President. However, I would like to warn you that I am a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and that I was not familiar with the order of the speeches in time and I was concerned that I could not speak in this debate because I was involved in the presentation of the sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u22	You will be given the floor after the 20-minute deadline, Senator Donno.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u23	WOMAN (M5S). I would also add that I have only learned now that Senator Pignedoli has withdrawn Amendment 6,300, tabled today.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u26	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, always speaking on the order of business, I would like to ask the Presidency if it can tell us anything about the stability bill. According to Article 7 of Law No 196 of 2009, by 15 October the bill of stability must be presented to the Chambers; we have no news of where it is, if it left from Palazzo Chigi, it arrived at the Quirinale, back to the Chambers etc. If you can give us any updates on this, I'd be grateful.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u27	As you know, Senator Bottici, the term of the law is authorising; last year too, the bill of stability was presented with a few days' delay. The Presidency will only be able to give information on the measure when it reaches the Senate; until then, it is in the full availability of the Government and therefore the Presidency cannot give further information.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of the measure we are debating today is to create regulatory coordination at national level on the protection of agricultural biodiversity, in accordance with the rules laid down by the Rio De Janeiro International Convention of June 1992, with the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture adopted in Rome on 3 November 2001, with the European directives and national guidelines on this subject. This legislative intervention, moreover, with a view to the creation of an integrated system for the protection of agricultural and food biodiversity, on the one hand it is perfectly integrated in the direction proposed at European level, aimed at the exploitation of the variety of genetic resources and, on the other hand, it tends to improve the previous regional experiences in this regard. Up to now many regions, in fact, in the absence of a national regulatory framework, have worked, each on its own behalf, in the field of biodiversity of agricultural interest, adopting specific measures for the protection and conservation of the heritage. In this sense the national legislator has decided to intervene not in contrast to the division of competences envisaged at the constitutional level, but in function of the best possible coordination between the various levels of government, so that the Regions can make their own choices within a common framework of reference and ensuring them adequate and inviolable spaces of involvement. The National Register of Biodiversity of Agricultural and Food Interest, mentioned by the rapporteur in her speech, the National Network and the National Portal, as well as the Standing Committee, aim to ensure the achievement of these objectives of coordination, with a view that an integrated and unified approach between the State and the Regions can only be of primary importance compared to the establishment of a rational, efficient and effective system. However, if the value of these innovations is clear and clear, it certainly needs a proper reflection on the part of the article that, not by order of importance, is found in the final articles of the draft law, concerning the establishment of biodiversity routes, the food community and the establishment of the National Biodiversity Day of agricultural and food interest. The joint aim of the introduction of these innovations, not to be considered untied by the rule concerning the promotion of specific initiatives to be carried out at schools, is to contribute to the creation of a collective awareness devoted to culture and the enhancement of biodiversity in agriculture, including - in this way - young people and adults. For this reason, for example, it will be the regions that will have to promote projects and actions in schools, aimed at spreading the wealth of knowledge on the subject, as well as, even by coordinating with the State and other local authorities, they will be able to take advantage of the occasion of the recognition of May 20 as National Day of Biodiversity of agricultural and food interest to support and encourage events and initiatives centered on the importance of the protection and enhancement of the diversity of the genetic heritage. Moreover, in this new context of broad and integrated reference, there is the possibility of organising regular promotional campaigns and developing specific knowledge itineraries, related to the National Biodiversity Register and the new register of genetic resources of food and agricultural interest which, following a special investigation or because already considered as such by regional registers, are considered to be at risk of extinction or erosion. Certainly innovative and desirable, then, is the forecast contained in Article 13 of the measure, which constitutes a true cultural turning point, of which our country has a great need, establishing the so-called food communities, that will allow the creation of short supply chain forms or direct sales, undoubtedly benefiting the development and growth of the various local economies. The competent authorities for the promotion of these communities are the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies and the Regions, with the aim of raising awareness of the population and supporting agricultural and food productions, with particular reference to that part of the constitution National Network of Biodiversity, of which will be part, in addition to local, regional and national structures, also farmers and guardian farmers. In addition, they may also benefit from agreements that have other objects, such as the realization of social, urban and collective educational gardens, that enhance abandoned, degraded or unused agricultural areas, including agricultural assets that have been taken from the mafia, or the study and transmission of knowledge related to traditional knowledge, practices proper to organic farming or knowledge about local genetic resources. For the development and dissemination of these perspectives, the forecast that the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, each year, should allocate a share of its own funds to innovative projects on biodiversity of agricultural and food interest, so that adequate resources for research are assured. On the other hand, dear President, this Government and this Parliament must be given special attention during this parliamentary term to agricultural matters. A short time ago we approved the measure on social agriculture, of parliamentary initiative, as we are today discussing a draft law on which the House has already deliberated and which we are going to approve in its final version; while from here, direction Montecitorio, the draft law of the Government has been sent on simplification, rationalization and agricultural competitiveness of the agricultural, agri-food and fisheries sector. In conclusion, there is no doubt how important it is to the agricultural and food sector, and this measure on the protection and enhancement of biodiversity fits perfectly within a unified strategy aimed at relaunching the centrality of agricultural policies, from the economic point of view as - I would like to reiterate - also social. Let us not forget the great task that agriculture has in involving, in its production processes, children and people with disabilities, who can find in it a concrete way by which to get in touch with the world of work and with the society in which they live. Biodiversity, the theme at the heart of our measure, represents an absolute wealth for our country. Among our most important tasks is to provide future generations with an environment as varied, healthy and healthy as possible, also in view of the commitments made with the Milan Charter and with the prospect of avoiding any food waste and contributing to the social progress of our planet. Against biodiversity, however, there are several factors: from climate change to intensive crops that abuse the use of fertilizers and pesticides. For this reason we can only be proud to promote and safeguard the activity of those who, every day, work against the impoverishment of our land, we spend in favor of the conservation and enhancement of a genetic heritage that enriches our soil, our crops, our culture and plays an absolutely fundamental role in protecting against hydrogeological risks, alas so current every day. Providing the appropriate legislative instruments for the protection of biodiversity, at the end of a long path in which all stakeholders have been involved, can only make us hope for a better future for our lands and for the fruits that they give us, in the certainty that the integrated system between public and private outlined in this measure, which combines local research and development, can only bring benefits to our society and enrich a little more, besides the earth, also our minds and our hearts. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u29	Senator Anitori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, come to this House, improved by the Senate Agriculture Commission, this bill, which, as you know, aims to establish a national system for the protection and enhancement of biodiversity of agricultural and food interest. I would like to thank my Commission for its work and the rapporteur, Mrs Pignedoli, for accepting the comments contained in the opinion which, as rapporteur, I drafted on behalf of the 12th Commission and which have made it possible to make the legislative proposal consistent with the purposes stated in Article 1. In particular, for having accepted the specific reference, both in the title and in the article, to the "biodiversity of agricultural interest" food, which made it possible to clarify the scope of the measure by harmonizing it with the provisions of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), and consequently also to have accepted the clarification that these are genetic resources of agricultural and food interest and not, generically, genetic resources. Therefore, the draft law, in the first place, is in line with the international regulatory instruments of reference (Convention on Biological Diversity of Rio de Janeiro and FAO Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources), both ratified by Italy, as well as the existing national instruments of direction, such as the National Plan on Biodiversity of Agricultural Interest and the National Guidelines for In situ Conservation, on Farm and Ex-Situ of Plant, Animal and microbial Biodiversity of Agricultural Interest, issued by the Minister of Agriculture and Food Policy and Forestry in July 2012. Secondly, the draft law allows the establishment of principles for the establishment of a national system for the protection and enhancement of biodiversity of agricultural and food interest, aimed at the protection of genetic resources of local food and agricultural interest from the risk of extinction and genetic erosion. Therefore, the technical aspects of the definitions are important, because biodiversity of agricultural and food interest is part of a country's wider biodiversity. Therefore, the two aspects contained in the aims combine consistency and conformity of the bill at both international and national level, where the existence of different regional situations requires a system for the benefit of the entire country. Furthermore, the particular attention given by the draft law to the protection of genetic resources of food and agricultural interest from the risk of extinction and genetic erosion allows for the protection and enhancement of local situations which, too often, are neglected and, sometimes, threatened by the large markets, while we know that our guardian farmers, in rural territory, play an important role in promoting agriculture and food. I stress the importance of including in the Committee also the presence of a representative of the Ministry of Health, of having identified on 20 May the Biodiversity Day of agricultural and food interest, distinguished in this way from the World Biodiversity Day of 22 May, chosen by the UN in the context of CBD. Finally, I would like to thank you for increasing the Fund for the protection of biodiversity of agricultural and food interest as advocated by the Health and Health Commission. In conclusion, we have tried to facilitate the understanding of technical aspects that could risk affecting the declared purposes and the importance of having a national legislation that puts Italy in place on the subject, through the establishment of technical tools such as the National Registry, the Portal and the revision of the national committee, which take into account the national guidelines provided in implementation of the international commitments signed by our country and allow to approach - as is right - the local and international context. and this happens precisely in the year in which, through Expo, Italian agriculture has been able to present itself to the world as a sector rich in peculiarities and biodiversity and, above all, attentive to environmental sustainability, as - for example - in the case of the protection of genetic resources of local food and agricultural interest from the risk of extinction and genetic erosion, introduced by that law. ( [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Albano]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u31	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law No 1728, which lays down provisions for the protection and enhancement of agricultural and food biodiversity, following the indications given at international level by the Rio de Janeiro Convention on Biodiversity and the guidelines of the European directives, intends to establish a true system of protection of biodiversity, with deep motivations linked to the role of agro-food, also from an economic point of view, in our country. Setting up a national system of protection and enhancement of agricultural biodiversity in support of local genetic resources from the risk of extinction and erosion, enhancing and transmitting knowledge on agricultural and food biodiversity, enhancing the heritage of local breeds and varieties of agricultural, zootechnical and forestry interest is fundamental for the quality of food and, perhaps, for the very survival of the Planet. It is the basis of the Expo and the Milan Charter: a further, fundamental step to make Italian agri-food excellence even stronger, an added value that imposes on us the need to protect, defend and enhance the prestige of Made in Italy. Italy has agricultural landscapes shaped by man, attentive to the enhancement of biodiversity, which are a cultural heritage of humanity, protected by UNESCO. And precisely this model, typically Italian and Mediterranean, is being established; a model based on local production systems, which enhance the diversity and the territorial and cultural peculiarities, creating the so-called short food chains. Through this proposal for a law for the protection and enhancement of biodiversity, the enormous potential of the agro-food sector and livestock farming, which will increasingly be able to support production and processing destined for large-scale distribution, is being enhanced by a fabric of local production, which makes system with economic operators, tourists, receptive, catering and, last but not least, with the school - and I am pleased that there are students here - in order to train the youngest educating them to know, appreciate and choose to consume the unique flavors of their land. Very significant is the fact that the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies promotes activities and projects for the transmission to farmers, students and consumers of the knowledge acquired in the field of agricultural and food biodiversity, because, above all, the younger generations understand the profound significance and value of protecting against the risk of extinction of local genetic resources, through the valuable work of farmers and farmers, and the conservation of genetic resources, agricultural products and local animals at risk of extinction or erosion, as the bill says. This is finally a well-defined commitment that required just a legal text. To the State and the Regions the task is to realize the promotion and the valorization of the agrarian and food biodiversity, with special itineraries for the knowledge of the local genetic resources enrolled in the Anagraphe and for the development of the territories. I repeat the absolute importance of what is proposed in Article 15 (School Initiative), which calls for young people to be made aware of the importance of agricultural biodiversity and the ways in which the existing heritage is protected and preserved; and the promotion by the regions of projects aimed at carrying out, at schools of all levels, actions and initiatives aimed at the knowledge of food products and local resources. The varieties of apples, pears and grapes are mostly seen by young people and students at the supermarket. But experiment them a few days in the free field (I mean this term literally), in the vineyard, recognize the typical local products and follow the production process and the transformation mechanisms only very rare in the school, but help to understand the value of the earth, the value of biodiversity. At the same time, it is appropriate to use the opportunities provided by this draft law on research, in order to identify in CREA centres virtuous paths of international collaboration, which define in a unique way - for example - the areas of cultivation with similar land between territories of neighbouring countries of the European Union, in order to realize, in place of the useless disputes about which we hear very often, cross-border DOC products. This bill gives, therefore, further impetus to a crucial sector for the country's economy and at the center of the international attention of Expo 2015, whose theme - we know - is to feed the planet, energy for life. And another important step to restore value to agri-food production, in all its varieties and specificities, as a distinctive and peculiar character of the Italian identity of which we must be proud, recognized and sought from all over the world, is a far-sighted vision of our policies; policies that invest on excellence, a further challenge for the relaunch of work and youth entrepreneurship in agriculture. Recovery, protection and enhancement of biodiversity are, therefore, the foundations of this text of law, which has the merit of adopting a systematic approach involving all the actors in the chain, ranging from field to table, passing through research, conservation, distribution and conscious choice of agri-food quality, which begins in schools with training. The demands arising from Expo and enshrined in the Milan Charter become law, reaffirming that the winning development model, because sustainable, is that of the richness of plant and animal varieties adapted to the typicalness of soils and climates. The success of Expo shows that this theme has a global value: defending biodiversity means, in fact, supporting the fight against climate change, engaging against the practice of wild deforestation, supported by multinationals in Africa, Latin America and Asia, to plant extensive cultivations that depopulate - as my colleague Padua said before - the soils and pollute them with massive doses of anti-cryptogamics, herbicides and chemical pesticides, stripping millions of people of the richness of their land. Ultimately, to value biodiversity is a fundamental part of a vision of the future that aims for the next centuries, to deliver to future generations a world still rich in variety, plant and animal biodiversity, rich in beauty and life. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u33	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u34	Madam President, today we are talking about provisions for the protection and enhancement of biodiversity of agricultural and food interest: better late than never. Yes, because it took several years before, in our legal system, we began to tackle at the legislative level, what in an international regulatory context is now an old story. In fact, the Rio de Janeiro Convention on Biological Diversity dates back to 1992 and is also far away in 2001 and is the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture. It is worthy of a synthesis of what could be done and what has actually been done, in a gruff way, this bill, but it is already something, it is a starting point. It's a bit like the eternal struggle between light and shadow, between yin and yang, just to use an oriental philosophical term. If, on the one hand, it is good to protect biodiversity in the agricultural and food sectors, on the other hand, it is bad to create systems that are too articulated and centralized to implement them, as well as to adapt to what has been preached for decades in the other legal systems, but it is bad to leave the definitions to a distracted legislator. Biodiversity is not only an issue that has affected and continues to affect the public, the media, associations and operators in the sector in a progressive growth. Biodiversity means wealth and, at the same time, variety. For this reason, it is fully involved in sectoral policies, as well as in the economic and social fabric. The survival of ecosystems and life forms, on the other hand, is not an abstract entity, imprinted on a law, a document or a convention. More than a fifth of the total species present in our country are at risk of extinction. In the agricultural field, without careful protection, the sugary potato of Frigole, the red onion of Acquaviva delle Fonti or the chicory of Molfetta, to name just a few products of my land, risk not coming on our tables anymore. For our part, in the Committee on Agriculture, we have obtained the adoption of improved proposals, as well as certain legislative times (ninety days, not one more or less, for the issuing of the Ministerial Decree concerning the Standing Committee on Biodiversity of Agricultural Food Interest). Think a little - and here I am addressing the citizens - that no one, but nobody at all, had posed the problem of the temporal term; and so, maybe it went on in time, it took a few years, but there was no precise deadline: we had it put. We have taken away from too broad and misleading interpretations the object and purpose of the measure, avoiding speculation and above all uncontrolled activities, which is quite important. We have obtained that, on the subject of xylella, the Government undertakes to establish appropriate protocols of integrated control on the phenomena of epidemic contagion or plant health coming from species of particular virulence. I must say that, in this regard, the Government has been widely involved. Too bad, however, dear Minister, that in the meantime there have been all those felling trees that are competing to desert the Apulian territory. But there's nothing you can do about it? Perhaps a less strong action would be better: instead of proceeding with the killing, it would be preferable to seek a cure, activate a more effective search, take an emergency measure. And I also say this because we have seen firm projects in the Region for a wild construction, as well as - let's assume? - there could be a passage from a Snam gas pipeline. Get busy. Try to be more incisive. Help the territory recover! It is increasingly urgent to regulate, with specific regulatory forecasts and immediate implementation, the fight against the extinction and erosion of plant resources, which affect the entire territory. And in the face of a few things that we have achieved, there have been others that we have averted by means of surveillance and prompt alerting. In this way, it has been avoided that, for the financing of innovative projects on biodiversity, the public evidence procedure should be opened. Yes, because in the Committee on Agriculture, an amendment by the rapporteur was concerned precisely with removing the words 'public evidence procedure', unless it was withdrawn once the opinion of the Committee on Budgets had been rejected. Dear Senator Pignedoli, remember? I got it right! There has been one of our clashes on the press. But you couldn't catch us by the nose. Now what? As by magic, with a further amendment quickly and furiously tabled, those little words reappear. So, it's a good thing there's the 5 Star Movement: maybe it points out the mistakes of a distracted legislative! In any case, there are still some things we keep asking. First of all, the approval of this measure must not involve additional burdens on a public finance that is now riddled by your handstrokes. And again, we also call for greater protection for the habitats of species similar to those cultivated in order to avoid the loss of genetic heritage. But above all, common sense proposals must not become the expedient to create armchairs or occupational shelters for political affairs. In conclusion: the risk of genetic erosion must be curbed and, with it, the alarming climate change. The coexistence of life forms that do not necessarily have to be classified as superior or inferior, common or unusual, important or negligible is the basis of the history and traditions of the whole world. It's about us, too, and you can't, of course, just ignore it. On the other hand, if the 5 Star Movement is in the institutions, it is a sign that diversity - not only bio, but also of thought - can and can find its own space, especially if it is a matter of eradicating the malerbs! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u35	She is registered to speak Senator Mattesini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u36	Madam President, what we are going to vote on is - in my opinion - a very important measure and I would like to highlight one particular aspect, which is the very close relationship we know between biodiversity and health protection. I do not say that this report exists, but the 14th World Congress of Public Health, held in February this year in India, which concluded its work by saying that protecting animals, plants and ecosystems is equivalent to preserving health, since there is a mutual impact on the quality of water, air, food production, microbial diversity and infectious diseases. The loss of biodiversity in agricultural ecosystems increases vulnerability and reduces sustainability in many production systems, with profoundly negative effects on human health. And we know, on the other hand, that the diversity of plant species and the variety of animal breeds support proper nutrition. Biodiversity is, in fact, the basis of the stability of ecosystems and services that provide food, drinking water, clean air, disease control, as well as raw materials for drug development. I quote the international magazine "Nature" which has repeatedly, over time, stated that the correlation between the conservation of biodiversity and diseases is fundamental, supporting how its disappearance in ecosystems triggers instead the proliferation of pathogens that trigger diseases. Today, however, we are dealing - at least so far - with an unprecedented loss of biodiversity, which is dangerously irreversibly altering a delicate balance. FAO has estimated the loss of biodiversity over the last hundred years in a figure close to 75% of the so-called main food species. Today, little more than 120 plant species provide 90 percent of the food, but only 12 plant species and 5 animals provide more than 70 percent of the food and only 90 percent of the fruit tree variety has disappeared in the USA. And I stress this because we all know - or we should know - how much the variety of food, together with the quality of products, deeply affects the prevention of diseases, but also the maintenance of health. Today we are dealing with the fact that only part of this biodiversity is contained in the national and international banks of germplasm: the rest is lost or is being lost. On the contrary, it is important to stress, as this bill does, that agricultural biodiversity is first and foremost the fruit of the continuous work of human beings, that work of adaptation, consumption, domestication of the territory, carried out since the beginning of agriculture. And it must be clear that it is biodiversity that provides raw material to farmers and scientists to improve the productivity and quality of products, while genetic manipulation of plant varieties has led to flattening, dispersing that richness and diversity that for years allowed those who work the land to produce seeds, to exchange them, to preserve them, to select the most suitable for the climate and for the productive needs, the rain and the drought, the plain and the mountain. In recent decades, however, intensive agricultural and productive models and seed have been established, which have favoured standardisation, the emergence of monopolies in the seed market as well as fertilizers and pesticides. And, expensive patent procedures have been established, which are now in the hands of four large multinational companies, with a turnover of about $15 billion a year. Thus, with this law, Parliament makes a contribution to the reversal, or at least to the correction of course, and is doing so on the basis of international treaties, starting with the Convention on Biodiversity in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. We do this on the basis of FAO reports, we do it on the basis of results proposed by the research world. I would like to stress that this is not a vision of niche, it is not a static or residual vision, but it is the definition of a system that holds together protection and valorization, innovation and research but also local development, protection and cooperation. I would also like to thank the Commission for paying attention to a proposal made by the Health Commission in Article 8, where it envisages the establishment of a Standing Committee on Biodiversity of Agricultural and Food Interest, a body chaired by a representative of the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies, as well as representatives of the Ministries of Education, University and Research and the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. The inclusion of a representative of the Ministry of Health is not an addition, but it points out in a very strong way the absolutely inseparable relationship between the maintenance and development of biodiversity and respect for health. So far I have talked about health in general, but I would like to conclude by stressing one last very important aspect of the correlation between biodiversity and health, namely the issue of health as a cure, namely medicines. The development and maintenance of biodiversity also mean the need to conserve and produce medicinal plants, which are of great importance for the production of pharmacies, therefore, of great importance precisely in health care with regard to the effectiveness of care. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u37	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u38	Madam President, draft law No. 1728, under the redundant premise of wanting to protect and enhance agricultural and food biodiversity, is born old and out of contextualization. This measure has as its root the Convention on Biodiversity, drawn up in Rio de Janeiro on 5 June 1992, which, in the light of food globalisation, now appears to be uncontextualised with the times. In the increasingly dangerously globalized food market, in an increasingly artificial and less natural agricultural world, comes yet another leap that will fall only on honest farmers. I am sceptical about the real environmental effectiveness of the measures provided for in this measure, with regard to both the type of rules and the rules of application that would exclude most of the small Italian farms. The measure in question apparently affects farmers' behaviour by supporting the adoption of environmentally beneficial practices, but also measures that promote the protection and protection of the territory, which create the conditions for the exploitation of biodiversity and facilitate the transfer and dissemination of information and knowledge. The effectiveness of these measures, however, is limited by the treaties imposed by political and market choices, such as the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Treaty (TTIP), which effectively destroys the agricultural value of excellence, reduces food quality and control. The measures under consideration, while acting at national level, cannot address biodiversity on a global scale in all its aspects: biological, economic and socio-cultural. This legislation will be passed on the small Italian agricultural producer and, at the same time, with the Treaty just mentioned, we will authorize the import from abroad of food grown without any control. In this country no further bureaucratic leaps are needed, but we need a series of measures and agro-climatic-environmental protections that have a more direct impact on biodiversity. In this country we need a serious and coordinated rural development policy that promotes the exploitation of agricultural resources while respecting the conservation and exploitation of natural and landscape resources in rural areas. [[Applause from Senators Casaletto and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u39	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u40	Madam President, 2010 was declared by the UN the international year of biodiversity and also the decade 2011-2020, for the same reason, has been declared important with regard to this particular issue. Biodiversity (genetics, species, ecosystems) has an influence in the agricultural production of man and it is thanks to the biodiversity present in different countries and, more often, in small regions that it is possible to have productions with very specific characteristics and, in some cases, even unique. Moreover, it is with the advent of biotechnology during the last century that the need for individual governments and international organisations to establish regulatory standards for the protection of both animal and plant biodiversity has become increasingly urgent. In particular, the agri-food biodiversity of many cultures was considered potentially threatened by the uncontrolled entry into the market of genetically modified organisms for which, among other things, legislation changes from country to country. In some of them, there is even deregulation. It is at this point that the protection of biodiversity in the agricultural sector responds to the need to reconcile productive agriculture with the protection of ecosystems, while maintaining the complexity and genetic richness of agricultural species, both cultivated and wild. The alteration of the ecological balance caused a sharp decline in genetic variability. Genetic resources are considered a component of biodiversity. The reduction of the variety of living forms, environments and the simplification of landscapes, i.e. the loss of biodiversity due to human activity, both in terms of the overexploitation of natural resources and the alteration of the environment, is today one of the most important problems on a global scale and involves both the strictly scientific field and the private initiative and government bodies. The farmers of the different areas of our country have made a continuous selection on the species of agricultural interest, which has led to the creation of many varieties suitable to enhance the natural resources of the most varied areas and, subsequently, to the affirmation of the selected seeds that have replaced the local ecotypes. In recent years there has been an impoverishment of the genetic base, evidenced especially by the manifestation of widespread attacks of phytopathogenic agents and the lack of resistance of the new seeds, selected or hybrid, to the various environmental stress. Further effect of the alteration of the ecological balance is a rapid reduction of the breeds bred for each individual species, with a strong decrease of the genetic variability within the bred populations. The protection of agricultural biodiversity is essential as a response to genetic erosion and food supply. The protection of biodiversity is not only an understanding and a cultural orientation, but has deep motivations, at a time when the issue of agro-food, also from an economic point of view, plays an important role. It is necessary to be linked to traditions, but oriented towards the future, and this bill goes in this direction. Perhaps you could do better, certainly, but the direction is the right one. Only if there is a rich genetic set of breeding breeds and plant varieties to be cultivated can productivity, adaptability and capacity of agricultural ecosystems to withstand change be ensured. And here perhaps it is also the case, in general discussion, to give some figures that make the idea of the impoverishment of biodiversity that we are facing. World food is based on 75 percent of 12 plant species and 5 animal species. Of plant species, only 3 (wheat, rice, corn) meet more than 60 percent of the need for calories and protein in the human diet. Only 6 varieties make up 71 percent of the world's corn production. If we look at other crops, such as potatoes, only 4 varieties make up 75% of the world's production, while 6 varieties of soya are the ones that play half of the world's production. Sustainable agricultural production cannot be without the conservation and sustainable use of genetic resources. Preserving and further developing the diversity of genetic resources in breeds and varieties used in agricultural production is a safety net that allows you to adapt to changing conditions. Let's just think about the issue of climate change these years. The text under consideration is intended to take up what are the indications already given at international and Community level. I am referring to the Rio de Janeiro Biodiversity Convention and the guidelines of the Community directives. The Convention on Biodiversity was signed in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 and implemented in Italy in 1994, and was intended to maintain by 2020 the genetic diversity of cultivated plant species, domesticated and farmed animal breeds and wild ancestors, as well as other species that have socio-economic and cultural value. Many regions have already intervened with their own laws for the conservation and protection of biodiversity and have equipped themselves with repertoires or registers where local resources are registered. The purpose of this bill is therefore to establish an installation that allows the connection and networking of the information available at a territorial level for the purpose not only of conservation and protection, but also of the transmission of knowledge. The measure that we are going to approve has as its intention to create a national system of protection and enhancement of biodiversity of agricultural and food interest, aimed at protecting local genetic resources from the risk of extinction and genetic erosion, pursued also through the protection of the rural territory. Madam President, we must, however, make a few criticisms of this measure. The first concerns the Standing Committee on Biodiversity of Agricultural and Food Interest, which should ensure coordination of actions at State, Regional and Autonomous Provinces and which is renewed every five years. The risk is that this could be considered the duplication of the Standing Committee on Genetic Resources set up in 2009, ending with being yet another armchair. We believe it is important - we have tabled an amendment on this - that every renewal of the Committee there is a total replacement of its members in order to avoid, precisely, the armchair effect. For this reason, we foresee the prohibition of renewal of posts and that within the Committee there are six representatives of the Regions chosen by the Regions themselves in the State-Regions Conference. This is a very important amendment for us. The establishment of a register is relevant and useful in terms of greater protection of biodiversity, but - in our opinion - the protection of genetic resources can be carried out in the best way at regional level, as a direct expression of a territory that, being a basin of resources and traditions, is the only one able to preserve and preserve the heritage of biodiversity and to ensure the local communities the right of ownership over races and varieties. Moreover, plant and animal species are often concentrated only in some geographical areas of our country and do not exist throughout the national territory. In our opinion, only the Regions can have that extra quid to carry out the activity of protecting genetic resources that are the richness of the territory and, therefore, to protect the local biodiversity, of which our country is very rich. The measure puts to the competence of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces the identification of guardian farmers, that is those who engage in the conservation in situ (i.e. within the farm) of local genetic resources and local animal genetics at risk of extinction or genetic erosion. We believe that it would have been important to establish that the choices of guardian farmers were also made by members of the local communities traditionally involved in the conservation of genetic resources and that they had rediscovered or identified them. In addition, this measure stipulates that the Council's three-year work plan for research and experimentation in agriculture should provide for research into agricultural and food biodiversity and the techniques necessary to promote, protect and develop it, as well as for the recovery of correct practices with regard to food, animal nutrition with non-genetically modified products and water saving. In our view, it is important to develop and encourage research into alternative practices for the use of pesticides and fertilisers. That is why we have tabled an agenda, which has already been accepted in the Commission's examination. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Council, I invite you to conclude. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am going to conclude and we will then give an explanation of vote. We believe that this measure is in the right direction, even though we thought we could have a little more impact on matters which we consider to be very important. However, we will make our own assessments when voting on the amendments and agendas, also on the basis of the attitude that the Government will take. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Companione. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, measures such as the one we are dealing with today are always welcome, first of all because they fall within the scope of accession to the decisions of the 1992 Rio de Janeiro Convention, which have been referred to several times. It is always good to verify the state of the art of its application, even after many years, remembering that in between there have been two very important facts at international level, the Nagoya Convention (in Japan) in 2010, with the global strategic plan to stop the loss of biodiversity by 2020, and the decision of the European Commission of 3 May 2011, in which a strategic vision is offered on the subject even until 2050. In the age of globalisation, the need to protect native species and biodiversity from possible aggressive genetic pollution is growing, not only from these, but also from the economic influences of large-scale distribution. The Rio Convention on Biodiversity set out three basic objectives: the conservation of biological diversity, the sustainable use of its genetic components and the fair and equitable division of benefits in using it. We therefore welcome the rules for the creation of the National Biodiversity Survey, the National Network of Agricultural and Food Biodiversity, the National Biodiversity Portal and the Standing Committee on Biodiversity. We also welcome the establishment of the Biodiversity Fund, with its economic endowment. However, we must not forget that the fight against the depletion of biodiversity and the first fight against the loss of species, particularly native species, is about the fight against the destruction of their natural habitat, the commitment to mitigate the effects of climate change and - which is particularly dear to us - the strong contrast against the invasion and colonization of alien species, that is, those non-originating species of the given place, as regards both marine ecosystems and those of land. For example, I would like to recall what happened with the Sicilian hard grains, when the numerous native species were supplanted, for purely economic reasons and for the effects of globalization, by non-autoctonous grains, to the detriment of quality and the risk of the definitive disappearance of the native species. This is therefore a clear case of serious loss of biodiversity. In this sense, apart from the good intentions and good intentions of this measure, we wonder whether this has the possibility of being effective for the purposes of the Rio Convention. Let us not forget that all this matter is governed by Community regulations; therefore, I believe that, regardless of the content of this bill, a strong call must be made to the Government to exert all legitimate pressure on the European Commission to intervene to protect our agricultural productions and therefore our biodiversity, blocking imports of certain products that have nothing to do with our native species and paying particular attention to certain productions at high risk of infection from diseases and alloctonous pathogens. I am referring here to citrus fruit production from North Africa. It is a matter of acting mainly to avoid that disease called citrus black spot, that is the black spot of citrus fruits, which seems to be able to arrive in Europe and therefore spread also in Italy. If that were the case, the risk would be to trigger a new Xylella and I do not think that the measures put in place so far have prevented these risks. The entry of this disease would generate dramatic consequences for citrus fruits, as it did for oil; citrus fruits and oil are two products that are highly characteristic of our economy and the Community economy. It is worth remembering that in Europe this sector has 500,000 hectares of cultivated land and 5 million tons of annual production. Only in Italy, the sector involves 78,000 citrus farms and is worth 1.4 billion euros, affecting almost a third of the total value of fruit growing. So to date, there are no plant protection products that can fight the so-called black spot disease and the news that comes raises many concerns. European legislation would in fact provide for the blocking of import after five intercepted cases. In September 2015, there were 11 interceptions for products imported from South Africa and 10 for products from Argentina, but the European Union did not intervene in any way, despite the interceptions from South Africa being 35 in 2013 and 25 in 2014. This is why, ladies and gentlemen, these are the scenarios with which we must measure ourselves, trying to exercise more decisively our functions of leadership and inspection union towards the Commission, urging it to implement, administratively, guidelines, rules and Community principles which have already been transposed into our legal system - and therefore already in place - but above all to exert pressure on European bodies. In particular, immediate action by the European Commission is needed to block South Africa' s import and to closely monitor Argentina' s import. Among other things, it is precisely in recent weeks, at European level, that we are discussing the implementation of the rules on import controls. What is happening with the black spot disease demonstrates the need to push for a rapid change of European standards on product traceability and the protection of our productions and not so much to operate through internal legislative measures, therefore concerning Italy and our Government. We can therefore, of course, approve the draft law in question, which is in the right direction, but what is important is to step up plant health controls in ports of entry and to work to ensure that we work at European level on a rule that allows the European Union to decide on itself the closure of borders and imports, as a precautionary measure, in the event of a high risk. This is therefore a European plant protection problem, which requires a sound protection strategy, which is certainly coordinated by Brussels. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u45	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business and, in accordance with Rule 100 (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, I would like to announce to you that I and other colleagues in my Group intend to table amendments to draft law No 1676, laying down environmental provisions and related to financial maneuvering, as has already been the case with the draft Constitutional Reform Act and as you yourself, Madam President, admitted earlier this morning. Since the so-called related environment will be voted on tomorrow, Rule 100 (4) of the Rules of Procedure allows amendments to be tabled, provided that this happens at least one hour before the beginning of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u46	However, as I understand it, the Conference of Leaders, despite the rule of the Rules of Procedure, decided that the amendments should be tabled by 10 a.m. on Tuesday 20 October, subject to the possibility of submitting amendments to the amendments tabled by the rapporteur and the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u47	The same thing happened in the context of constitutional reform: the Conference of the Leaders had already decided on the timing, they had already expired and the submission of amendments and not sub-amendments was allowed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u48	The Presidency will assess: the decision in the course of the debate on the draft Constitutional Act clearly does not make a precedent and the President has thus considered it. That is the answer I give you, after which, if the Presidency accepts the submission of out-of-date amendments, it will be communicated to you. Senator Martelli, you made an announcement and I gave you the answer, telling you that the deadline for tabling amendments has expired. If a derogation is to be made, of course, we need the agreement between the Groups, because, as you will recall, during the examination of the draft Constitutional Reform Act there was an agreement between all the Groups at the Conference of the Leaders. If it is the same for the so-called environmental connection, the amendments can be accepted. In fact, in view of the resolution of the Conference of Leaders, this would not be possible. [[Senator Martelli points out that he wants to intervene.]] I give you the floor again, but I have already given you an answer; we cannot move forward with a debate. You made an announcement and I gave you information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u49	I do not know if you realize that you have told me that what happened during the constitutional reform is not a precedent, but it is not that in some cases the precedents are valid and in others not. It is not written in the Rules of Procedure, and we must stick to what is written. If there's one thing written in here, I'm sorry: either summon the Board for the Rules and change what's written or must be worth that, because it's not possible that every time a precedent comes up that, as you yourself told me, is worth sometimes and others are not.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u50	It is typical of the parliamentary system that both rules and practices apply and, as a political body, are sometimes exempted if there is agreement between all the groups. We have talked a lot about this: the famous contradictive nemina that has been discussed for a long time during the constitutional reform. I gave you this answer and I couldn't give you another one, so I take note of your announcement and the Presidency will consider how to apply both the Rules of Procedure and the decision taken by the Conference of Leaders which - as I have already said - had set the deadline at 10 a.m. today.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u51	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u52	Madam President, today we have been considering a long-awaited measure, above all and probably also because, as other Members have already mentioned, the Convention on Biological Diversity has become operational and binding for the signatory countries since December 1993, having already reached the necessary number of accessions. Among other things, a specific chapter on agricultural biodiversity is contained in that Convention on Diversity. In Italy it was approved in 2012 by the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy the National Plan for Agricultural Biodiversity and the working group has been established that has issued guidelines for the conservation and characterization relative to the plant, animal and microbial sector. That is why I say that we have been waiting for this bill for a long time and we also recognize its urgency, because the data are alarming and are before everyone's eyes. I would like to remind you here of some of them. According to FAO, about 7,000 species of plants have been cultivated by humans since the birth of agriculture until today, but this enormous and priceless genetic heritage has suffered a very strong and worrying erosion in recent decades. Obviously the industrialization of agriculture and the drive to the maximum productivity of the crops have produced in fact a selection and diffusion of uniform and standardised cultivars, both at the level of the seeds and in the method of cultivation, and therefore the new varieties so constituted, often hybrid, have quickly supplanted the numerous local varieties existing. The adoption of genetically modified seeds is not alien to this process of simplification in the world. Over the last twenty years, the drive for uniformity and standardisation has been increasing, while concentrating patent rights in the hands of a few large multinational companies. Only 30 crops now provide about 90 percent of the world's population's food needs: among them, wheat, rice and maize alone provide about half of the global food energy consumed. The same studies tell us that, on the front of animal genetic resources, of about 15,000 species of mammals and birds, only 40 have undergone domestication processes intended to accompany man's food life as well. Less than 14 species, including cattle, goats, sheep, buffaloes and chickens, now account for 90 percent of the livestock that is bred worldwide for food production, with breeds selected for agriculture that are extinct at the rate of one per month. The situation is therefore very disturbing from the perspective of the future of the human species, considering that genetic diversity is the indispensable basin from which to draw resources to combat phytopathologies and to allow the adaptation of food species to the impending climate change. In areas where agricultural practice has a multi-millennial history, and among these certainly the Mediterranean, plant and animal biodiversity has largely adapted to the presence of large cultivated areas, sometimes shaping its ecological needs according to the structure and functioning of agricultural landscapes. For millennia agricultural activity has been harmoniously integrated into the Italian ecological context and this exceptional diversity is still the main wealth of our agricultural production. Think of the national sector of wine, today the world's first for quantity and quality of production, which owes largely its extraordinary success to the about 300 cultivars of the vine that have been historically cultivated in our territory, some of which have been recovered and are the basis of important commercial successes. The sign of the simplification and loss of agricultural biodiversity is also strongly felt in our country: just think that at the end of the last century in Italy over 400 varieties of wheat were grown, while in the last decade only eight varieties of durum wheat have constituted 80% of the distributed seed. That is why we have welcomed the examination of the draft law we are debating today in the House and - I repeat - it concerns a subject which has been discussed for a long time. After in 2012, as I recalled, the National Plan for Agricultural Biodiversity was approved and the working group set up, no concrete operational commitment was followed so far for the protection of agricultural biodiversity, with the exception of the provisions issued by some regions and the meritorious work of some research institutes that have been involved in cataloguing and conservation interventions. The establishment of the National Register, provided for in Article 3 of the draft law, is therefore an important step forward to prevent the erosion of genetic resources and to put in synergy the commitment of the Regions and research institutes, in order to establish a system of interconnected databases and allow the monitoring of the conservation status. It is also very important to network the many farmers who are now working to conserve local genetic resources and find, in the text under discussion, a first concrete, albeit partial, recognition with Article 4 and Article 6. Their activity, in our opinion, must, however, find support with the implementing provisions that, we hope shortly, will be issued for the updating of the National Biodiversity Plan, provided for in Article 7 of the bill. In this respect, it is essential that farmers who protect biodiversity are recognised, in the places where these varieties have evolved their characteristic properties, the right to the direct sale of seed or propagating material produced on the farm, and the right to free trade (an old question that we hope to bring to completion today, once and for all). It is also important to raise awareness of consumers and educational institutions, with the anticipation of the "food communities" and the establishment of a National Food Biodiversity Day. We have tabled two amendments to the House which we believe could further qualify this text. In particular, we believe that the Standing Committee on Biodiversity, set up under Article 8, should provide for a wider representation of the true protagonists of the protection system, the guardian farmers. A second proposal, on the other hand, is aimed at increasing the very small resources which are made available to farmers in support of the Fund established by Article 10; a commitment by the Government, in this House, to find decent coverage, would give the sign that we want to do seriously, in the interests of the quality and future of our agri-food system. We hope that with the amendments and agendas tabled by various Groups we can further improve this text, a bill which - I repeat - has been waiting for a long time and which I believe can actually be a concrete act for the protection of our country's agricultural biodiversity. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u53	Senator Dalla Tor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating takes up both the indications given at international level by the Rio de Janeiro Biodiversity Convention and the guidelines of the European directives. Its objective is the establishment of a genuine system of protection of biodiversity. Biodiversity is not only a cultural orientation, but it has deep motivations related to the role of agro-food also from the economic point of view. Over the last fifty years, man with his productive activities has profoundly changed the ecological base of the living world and in many cases the damage done is irreversible. Despite the measures taken by international bodies, the European Union and individual Member States, there are still serious dangers to nature conservation and the maintenance of biological diversity in certain areas. The loss of biodiversity is now one of the most important problems on a global scale and involves both the strictly scientific field and the private initiative and the governing bodies. According to a recent report published by FAO, the genetic diversity of the plants that we grow and feed us could be lost forever with harmful consequences on the planet's ability to feed humans. However, although the FAO report indicates continued loss of biodiversity, it also shows that there is a greater awareness today of the importance of protecting and using genetic diversity of food crops. It is precisely for the protection of biodiversity that gene banks are born. There are currently more than 1,750 with more than 7.4 million preserved samples. Of these, 45 percent are however owned by only seven countries. This concentration of genetic diversity collection in a few countries and research centres underlines even more the importance of mechanisms that ensure and facilitate the access of all stakeholders to phytogenetic resources. The brief comments made so far are useful elements for assessing the proposed legislation. It aims to establish in Italy the national system for the protection and enhancement of agricultural and food biodiversity. This system will be composed of the National Register of Agricultural and Food Biodiversity, established at the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies, where all local genetic resources of plant, animal and microbial origin are indicated at risk of extinction or genetic erosion. The registration to the Register is subject to an inquiry for the verification of the existence of the following elements: a correct characterisation and identification of the resources; an adequate conservation in situ; the correct indication of the place of conservation and the possible possibility of generating propagating material. The species, varieties or breeds already identified by the repertoires or plant registers of the Regions, the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano or by the genealogical books and the personal registers referred to in the animal reproduction regulation (Law No 30 of 1991) and Legislative Decree No 529 of 1992, implementing Community Directive 91/174/EEC on zootechnical and genealogical conditions governing the marketing of breed animals, are incorporated by law into the Register. In addition, the system will use a national network of agricultural and food biodiversity coordinated by the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies, in agreement with the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. The Network is composed of local, regional and national structures for the ex situ conservation of germoplasm, farmers and keepers and will carry out activities aimed at preserving local genetic resources from the risk of extinction or genetic erosion, through in situ conservation and re-introduction into crops or other forms of exploitation. No less important, always within the framework of the system of protection and valorization of agricultural and food biodiversity, are the National Portal, established at MIPAAF, in order to constitute a system of databases interconnected of the local genetic resources identified, and the Standing Committee on Agricultural and Food Biodiversity, always established at MIPAAF, to ensure the coordination of actions between the different levels of Government, State, Regions and Provinces, in the matter of protection of agricultural and food biodiversity. Protecting and enhancing agricultural and food biodiversity requires the State to implement a serious plan to promote projects aimed at passing on to farmers, students and consumers the knowledge acquired in the field of biodiversity, through training activities and cultural initiatives. In order to achieve this, the proposed law, therefore, assigns to agricultural departments and education the task of providing updates and information on the development of informal seed systems at territorial level, the recovery of local plant genetic resources, the carrying out of activities of prevention and land management necessary for the achievement of the objectives of conservation of agricultural and food biodiversity. We must not overlook the fact that this proposal for a law must be incorporated within the framework of European legislation on biodiversity, precisely, agriculture and food. At Community level, it should be recalled that Directive 92/43/EEC on the conservation of natural and semi-natural habitats of wild fauna and flora, called "Habitat" has been adopted, as well as the European Strategy for the Conservation of Plants 2008-2014. The protection of biodiversity is also important in the areas of investment planned for the programming of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the programming of which for the period 2014-2020 is contained in the Partnership Agreement presented at European level and currently under consideration by the Community institutions for their approval. Finally, on 3 May, the Commission presented a Communication on the EU Biodiversity Strategy up to 2020 to update the 2010 targets to end the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystem services by 2020. The objective is to extend, by 2020, agricultural areas cultivated for grassland, arable land and permanent crops, which are the subject of biodiversity measures under the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). In conclusion, approving the bill would not only guarantee the achievement of the protection and enhancement of agrarian and food biodiversity in Italy, with positive repercussions in terms of economic and employment profits not to be overlooked, but would allow our country to align with the European policy of sector. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u55	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u56	Madam President, my speech is a request, addressed to the representative of the Government, and above all to the rapporteur, because only the latter can table an agenda for Rule 10. This important article establishes the Biodiversity Fund to support the actions of farmers and farmers as well as public bodies engaged in the world of seeds. I would ask, if possible, that the rapporteur give a favourable opinion on this agenda so that the list of beneficiaries on the website of the Ministry of Agricultural Policy can be made public. I also recall that paragraph 2 of the aforementioned article provides for a decree in which the Government will then have to issue provisions to access this Fund, so I believe there are all the spaces to make transparency on the list of beneficiaries. We know that transparency is very important, because it means that there will be no corruption because the data is public. It is an agenda that costs nothing, so I hope it will be approved by the rapporteur and then accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u57	Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u58	(IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this week we are discussing issues which are the legislative implementation of a cultural orientation, a growing manifestation of a widespread sensitivity, which is finally giving due attention to important issues for the future of our entire planet. We're talking about environment and biodiversity. Let's talk about the role of agriculture and agro-food in a key different from mere productive recognition, giving space to the reflections that these subjects have on the whole functioning of the planet, in a perspective of protection and preservation, looking to the past to innovate the future! These aren't sentences, they're not words in the wind. These are concepts that are now concrete in this draft law under discussion in this House. Because, if it is important for the planet to talk about the protection of biodiversity, it is even more so in our country, where the varietal heritage of food crops is vast and strongly rooted in our gastronomic culture. Not by chance, many varieties bear terms or names that recall or trace the name of the city or territory of origin, inevitably influencing the traditional local recipes and giving rise to a great gastronomic richness. And here the territory is yes land, air, water and climate, but it is also language, dialects, religion, craftsmanship, architecture and landscape. Away from its territory of origin a seed, a vegetable, a fruit tree, an animal breed become simple germplasm, that is genetic material. The germoplasm banks keep 7.4 million seeds, tissues or parts of plants, pollens, individual cells and DNA in the world. These resources will allow us to always have new commercial hybrids, suitable for mass production, that can always be innovated and improved according to both the climate and environmental changes of the areas where they will be cultivated, and the evolution of tastes and needs of the consumer. Recovering and preserving ancient varieties is important not only for genetic banks. It is essential that the varieties are cultivated in the places of origin where they can express the best of their potential, where they have acclimated over the centuries thanks to the work of man. For this reason, the ancient varieties are often more resistant and require less external interventions (fertilizers, water and pesticides), being therefore more sustainable, both from an environmental and economic point of view. And the impact will not only be on productions, but these actions also have important repercussions on the preservation and maintenance of landscapes and natural environments and for the preservation of the gastronomic heritage of the local communities. Indeed, we can read about the historical importance of the recovery of ancient seeds, since through the history of the latter it is possible to reconstruct the history of man and of the planet. But this extraordinary wealth of biodiversity is at risk. According to FAO data presented at Expo 2015 by Slowfood, 75 percent of the agricultural crops present at the beginning of the twentieth century are now irremediably lost. At the beginning of the last century there were over 7,000 varieties of apples in the world, but 86 percent have disappeared and now only four varieties occupy the shelves of supermarkets, while of the 2,500 varieties of pears that were grown once, only two share 96 percent of the market, arriving in the United States, where the loss of biodiversity for many crops is close to 95 percent. In order to remedy this situation, we need dedicated legislation, such as the one we are dealing with today, which clearly articulates a number of structured actions and addresses the problem with a broad scope. This is the creation of an asset registry, a national network and portal, a plan and guidelines for the conservation of agricultural and food biodiversity. Specific and concrete measures, which go through the involvement of farms for the cultivation in and ex situ and which defines the marketing of seeds, as well as research interventions. But to complete the article are foreseen important measures with an approach on a cultural basis, inviting the Regions to promote initiatives in schools on the topic and to establish itineraries for the promotion of territorial biodiversity. And it is precisely the cultural approach that I believe should be pursued more than others. We must make it clear to our young people how much such actions are instruments that can affect the quality of the planet in the long term, and therefore the quality of life. Maturating a consciousness, an awareness of this, which results in a global sensitivity, is the key to ensuring continuity in these processes, avoiding that they are only a fashion of the moment. In conclusion, through the protection of agricultural and agri-food biodiversity we could therefore preserve our traditions, our territory, but also have material to feed industrialized agriculture, necessary to meet the needs of the global market, indifferent to the link with the individual territories but able to give large quantities of product with a standard taste and more resistant to manipulation and transport, cultivable in different environments and climates. (18.23) (Follows ALBANO). The advantages will therefore benefit both the ubiquitous golden delicious apple, and the newly found Egyptian onion, a rare and ancient vegetable cultivated in the past in the Ligurian soils by my ancestors, able to reproduce quickly adapting easily even to the harsh winter temperatures and defined by my illustrious fellow citizen, the botanist Libera Guglielmi as the iconic mother of all onions. The different needs and needs of consumers will give space to both markets, but the legislator's task is to ensure knowledge tools, so that everyone can make their choices consciously, and make it possible to maintain this variability, working on legislative proposals like this. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Pignedoli, for having been able to represent the issue of biodiversity as a priority political objective for our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] . PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u59	Mr President, my reply will actually be a very quick one, because the general debate has brought out, as indeed happened in the Commission, different points and aspects and also different ways of creating this national system. However, the vast majority of interventions have confirmed the importance of the direction that our country is taking and the commitment that it is taking at several levels, to keep together and coordinate the local aspects with the supranational ones. I have also listened - and I must say that I understand them - to the fears of some Members who have made comments or who have expressed doubts about the risk of creating a biodiversity-related system creating bureaucratic superstructures. We are not new to this, so I also understand mistrust and fears of this type, but I believe that precisely the coordination action, initiatives, energy and actions already present and initiated in different regions are realities that see the protagonism and direct activity of those who are in contact with the territories, of those who act directly on the territories. They are the representatives of the committees. Those proposed are slender tools: new technologies, portals, the idea that there is direct interaction between a central point and different local realities. This will be our big challenge. It will be extremely inspiring and I think that the goal of the coming years will be to be able to bring in contact, to make dialogue different sectors. In fact, we need to overcome sectors, to tackle environmental issues globally; we need to reconnect the theme of food with the themes of agriculture and production. I have also listened to the comments made, especially by the M5S Group, on the presentation of amendment 16,100, in particular by Senator Donno. This is a purely technical justification which seeks to keep simplification and public evidence together, as is also stated in the amendment; moreover, it is consistent with the procurement code, as already provided for in Law No 400 of 1988 and Law No 241 of 1990. For this reason, the amendment uses the words: "prevented by the current legislation" therefore there are no subterfuges, modes or different shortcuts. In the same way, I have listened and I propose to accept, if there is an opportunity to present an agenda, the proposal put forward by Senator Gaetti, which aims to ensure maximum transparency in order to make clear which are the beneficiaries, which are the actions and resources intended for different purposes. I shall conclude my speech with the willingness to make every procedure and every instrument that we are going to propose as transparent as possible. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Formigoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u60	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u61	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Senator Pignedoli, rapporteur for this measure, the President and all the members of the 9th Commission, the officials who have worked with great dedication, and also the members of other Commissions, some of whom have also spoken today in general debate, for the contributions, reflections and analyses that have been made and which have enriched the text presented. In these past months we have shown the world - and we are still doing this in these weeks - our biodiversity, the richness of our country within the Universal Exhibition in Milan; now we must take on together the commitment to better guard it. Certainly this is a task that Italy has already assumed in the past years, but it must be renewed, deepened and better coordinated with regional policies, starting now. In this sense too, the legacy of Expo is entrusted to our care, to our attention, to the commitment that this legislative House wants to make. For the first time the role of guardian of the farmer and the breeder is recognised in law. This is also a relevant cultural step to address the challenges of environmental protection as a whole, from contrasting to hydrogeological failure to the preservation of Italian natural landscapes. Agriculture has always contributed to this protection, to this guarantee, but today for the first time we call it one of the objectives of the agricultural sector and I believe that it is not a small figure, especially in view of what awaits us tomorrow, of what is important to help and support our agricultural enterprises, especially in the internal areas and in those territories that have been abandoned most in the past decades. Globalisation requires the protection of specificities. Our biodiversity heritage, which was so well illustrated by Senator Pignedoli in her introductory report, even with data that of course must make us think, is a wealth to be profited. This is a great job that our Ministry of Agricultural Policies is trying to carry out, also on this specific occasion of Expo. But together, because this is a responsibility towards the rest of humanity, our children and the generations to come. We have a heritage, we have to make it pay, but first of all, we must preserve it and preserve it from the risks it faces. This measure, which has been appropriately improved by this House, is important in this respect. It manages to coordinate regional policies and to encourage even those less active Regions to take the necessary steps to ensure, throughout the national territory, that attention to the issue of the protection of biodiversity that we today consider national political priority. Agricultural biodiversity must be supported with appropriate instruments and cannot be guaranteed only with the protection of characteristic productions. The promotion of PGI and PDO products is certainly very important and, as you know, has been discussed many times in this House. As well as important are the territorial product garrisons, born also by spontaneous initiative of the citizens. This is also a beautiful and positive fact that we must support and enhance. But we know that this is not enough to prevent the disappearance of plant species and animal species of difficult cultivation or breeding and without specific markets. It is in this direction that this rule was necessary, long-awaited but coming at a particular moment; at a time when, as I said, Italy, perhaps in its entirety, has become aware of the challenge it faces in this area. Therefore, in thanking again all the Members and all the parliamentary groups who have contributed to improving the text, we do not care if anyone has identified any weaknesses; indeed, it is good that it has been done. We strongly believe that these laws of parliamentary initiative can be developed and enriched precisely by the parliamentary classrooms. In this context, in thanking for the contributions, we very much welcome this rule and believe that it can indeed be an important step forward in the logic of making effective what we have discussed, analysed and proposed during the Universal Exposition in recent months.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u62	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the order of business. As the G200 and G201 agendas have been withdrawn, I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the G202 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u63	Mr President, I turn to the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u64	The opinion is opposed to the G202 agenda because it is considered that the proposal does not have a strong connection with the purpose of the draft law. The premises are not acceptable and the matter can be dealt with more appropriately in the law of stability, after verification - and I stress this to the proposer - of the compatibility with the European legislation, since the protections, right, which have been indicated for the small subjects are already present in other norms. Therefore, there would be a risk of going against what European legislation has established.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u65	We ask the presenter if she insists on voting on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u68	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, authorized by Senator Fattori, I shall add my signature and withdraw the agenda for G202.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u69	We shall therefore proceed to the examination of the articles of the draft law, in the text proposed by the Commission. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u70	Mr President, I would like to say on the premise that we were in favour of the measure during the examination both in the House of Members and in the Commission and that, as Senator Amidei will very well explain in the explanation of vote, we are also doing so now. I would therefore like to ask both the rapporteur and the representative of the Government not to consider the amendments to the signature, but, as they do, to the content. I have tabled a number of amendments in an attempt - of course in my opinion, which is absolutely personal - to clean up and improve the text and I shall explain the reasons for that when examining the individual articles. With regard to Article 1, Amendment 1,200 (presented as an amending proposal for another article) is purely literal and is one of my usual provocations: we should avoid putting words from another language into the legislation of our country. Latin is fine - for goodness sake, indeed a hat, as they say - but we do not understand why the expression "on farm" should be used when we can very well use our beautiful Italian language and terms such as "in the company" or "in the company" are used, also because someone has to explain the difference between "on farm" and "in the company." That is why I would ask you to approve this amendment precisely for the sake of a linguistic fluency. Amendment 1,201 is essentially, but I believe that it is absolutely in line with the aim of the measure to provide for the protection and enhancement of biodiversity of agricultural interest to be pursued not only in rural areas, but also in the urban public green. I would like to remind my colleagues that most of the rare species of our plant heritage (especially those of tropical origin and perhaps not indigenous, but now become an important heritage of the richness of our flora) are located in the public gardens. In addition to the botanical gardens, almost all of them included in the organization of universities, there are many public gardens that contain rare species that are a truly important heritage of our plant biodiversity and that I believe deserve the same attention as those found in rural territory. Among the public gardens of great historical tradition, I remember Villa Giulia in Palermo, which was the first garden of Europe open to the public. In my opinion, there are several possibilities that the inclusion of public gardens could enrich the consequentities of the norm. With regard to amendment 1,251, I have already pointed out in the past that the committees abound in all the measures presented during this parliamentary term in the field of agriculture, despite the fact that we - we mean institutionally - always say that we want to simplify, streamline and reduce the expenditure associated with associations. There is also a new committee in this measure, as well as the creation of a network and a portal, on which I will focus later on when examining an amending proposal with which I propose simplification. I do not think this committee should be envisaged as it would be yet another of many committees. This measure, like all other measures concerning Italian agriculture, liquidates the new expenses borne by the Ministry itself, i.e. requires the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, with regard to the costs of activating these new tasks, to draw on its own resources. Agriculture - I will say this even later, alas - is the only sector that needs to find the resources for its promotion and for its improvement within its own funds. The Ministry of Labour, as happened with the Stability Act last year, draws on the resources of the Structural Funds, while other legislative innovations draw on general taxation; the Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture as a sector, on the other hand, have to pay for their legislative innovations. I find this absolutely unintelligible, in relation to a sector which still represents a not indifferent rate of national GDP and, above all, is an anti-cyclical sector, because it is shown that employment is growing in agriculture rather than decreasing as is the case in other sectors. This concerns amendment 1,251. Amendment 1,202 is a direct consequence of the previous one and I will therefore not waste time explaining it. Amendment 1,203 provides for clarification on the inclusion of private universities as well as public universities (this may be understood in the term universities, as the rapporteur and the government representative will certainly be able to tell me punctually), bringing a change in substance through the insertion of the word "together." We must avoid that Regions, Municipalities and Provinces take autonomous initiatives, as well as universities; instead, we must have the Regions, Provinces and Municipalities (i.e. public bodies which do not have specific professional support in this field) work together with universities, which can provide them with the necessary technical and professional support, so that this overall apparatus works, dialogues and produces within a single context. These are my amendments to Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u71	Mr President, as far as Amendment 1,250 is concerned, the same considerations as Mr D'Ali has just made concerning the setting up of this committee are valid. The amendment proposes that point (d) of paragraph 3 be deleted. Amendments 1.3 and 1.6 aim to enlarge the bodies that can enhance and protect biodiversity, including not only the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, the Regions, the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano and research bodies, but also universities, municipalities and other actors in the field. Amendment 1.7 realises that it is somewhat redundant and somewhat out of place, but it seems important to me to stress that genetically modified organisms are not material to be protected and included in the national system of protection and exploitation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u72	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u73	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u74	I am against all the amendments. With regard to Amendment No 1,200, I would like to say to Mr D'Ali that the opinion is against because there are definitions that have been taken from international acts; these definitions have now been codified and have already been used in other acts. Amendment 1,201, on the other hand, does not relate to the draft law, which only concerns agricultural and food crops, while there are other measures relating to the public good, so it is somewhat foreign to the matter. As regards the desirability of the Committee rule, I would remind you that we are not setting up a new one, but that there is already a Committee, which we are going to renew with the definitions and new representatives that have been mentioned. I would just like to stress, therefore, that this is one of the important and central points of this initiative.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u75	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u76	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,200. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by Senators D'Alì and Scoma, on the use of the Italian language. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,201, tabled by Senators D'Alì and Scoma. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u79	WOMAN (M5S). With this amendment we call for the deletion of paragraph 3 (b) concerning the National Biodiversity Network, because we note that the creation of an excessively articulated and centralised system ends up penalising the more technical aspect, concerning the development of instruments and actions aimed at eliminating the phenomena of depopulation and preserving the territory from genetic pollution and the consequent loss of the genetic heritage. Specifically, with regard to the planned establishment of a national registry and network at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy (MIPAF), it should be borne in mind that at the level of civil society there is already experience of organised networks, such as the semi-rural network and the national rural network, coordinated on the network through a MIPAF project called FAO Genetic and Plant Resources. Therefore, the usefulness of creating additional structures and organisms is to be questioned and the functions of database, monitoring and dissemination could be carried out by the same Population. Hence the presentation of our amendment, which aims to reduce the possibility of overlapping with other structures. I therefore call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u80	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,250, tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators, identical to amendment 1,251, tabled by Senators D'Alì and Scoma. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,202 tabled by Senators D'Alì and Scoma. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senators Gaetti and Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,203, tabled by Senators D'Alì and Scoma. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senators Gaetti and Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u83	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to subscribe to this amendment on which I would like to ask the Government to think, because we are asking that genetically modified organisms, GMOs, should not constitute material to be protected and included in the national system, therefore Italian (our food), protection and exploitation. It's a common sense rule.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u84	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u85	Mr President, with Amendment 2.2, we take the floor on paragraph 2 of the article, which states that local genetic resources are to be defined as resources originating in a specific territory, adding the words 'which are closely and traditionally associated with the uses and knowledge of a population which develops and continues their cultivation and farming in a limited territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u86	. Thank you very much, my President: we have just established that English must be the main language. Excuse me, ma'am, for the little intermezzo. Amendment 2,200 raises an important issue in my opinion because, even if agriculture is considered perhaps a bit old, and therefore linked to individual social and productive schemes, in fact there is a large and important number of agricultural enterprises in this sector, also in our country, that - I believe - more than individual farmers can carry on research, protection, the selection of biodiversity, the protection of biodiversity. Therefore, to exclude such enterprises from the ranks of those who can be included in both the albums and the committees or in everything that is being built around the protection of biodiversity seems to me to be somewhat reductive. I therefore think that farmers and agricultural enterprises should be the protagonists of this rule that we are about to approve, and the same applies to livestock farming: livestock farmers and livestock farms.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u87	Mr President, Amendment 2.3 is very special because we are going to ask to delete part of paragraph 3, which may seem a little strange to many. We know that already today there are associations that keep these genealogical books on the basis of legislation of 1991 and 1992. Here we are going to authorize the management of these endangered breeds, to bodies that are quite questionable as functionality, while I believe that we should mark a discontinuity with respect to the past and therefore not allow these associations included in the territory, which have an advantage of not indifferent position. It is necessary to establish a different system. We have a lot of databases in the computer system of the Ministry of Agricultural Policy and therefore I think it is more appropriate that farmers who have species to protect them insert them directly into the computer system, after certification and authentication of the login. I believe that this is also an important step and a break with these companies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remainder of the amendment is set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u88	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. I would like to make it clear that 'farmers' and 'farmers' are general terms used in all the reference treaties and include, and do not exclude, agricultural undertakings and zootechnical enterprises.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u89	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u90	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u93	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, we believe that the definition of genetic resources is too generic, and with this amendment we would like to make it more specific: genetic resources are those components of biological diversity that are relevant to food and agriculture, including the varieties and variability of animals, plants and micro-organisms, at the level of genes, species and ecosystem, necessary to support the functions and structure of agro-systems. I repeat, we would like to see a precise definition, and that is why we are tabling Amendment 2.1. I would therefore ask you to review the opinion on this amendment in order to try to meet us, because it is not trivial to seek a precise definition.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u96	PUGLIA (M5S). I would ask you to add my signature to Amendment 2.1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u99	PIGNEDOLI, rapporteur. Mr President, since we will return to a number of amendments on the subject of definitions, I would like to reiterate that this is not a matter of good or bad will from the rapporteur. We are taking definitions which have been shared on a number of treaties to which we have referred, and a number of colleagues have already mentioned international acts where the definitions of biological diversity and the issues we are dealing with have been established. I repeat, it is not a matter of not accepting or not sharing, because we are faced with a series of shares already expressed in other areas.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u102	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in the light of the rapporteur's explanatory statement, I withdraw Amendments Nos 2,200 and 2,201, because it is clear from the documents that companies are included in the farmers' register. I would have expected an invitation to withdraw rather than an opinion against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u103	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2,200 and 2,201 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.3, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 3, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u104	Mr President, I refer to the philosophy of this measure, which the rapporteur has outlined. It is a new measure that, among other things, as she said, incorporates elements that come from international treaties and rewrites the policy of the register of biodiversity in our country. I think that uncritically transposing what is already contained in previous lists, which obviously do not meet the same assessment criteria as new ones, is not an acceptable practice. I think - and this is why I propose amendment 3,200 - that the existing lists of biodiversity in some local authorities should be given priority, but always critical: that we should consider whether everything or a part should actually be taken from those lists, in the light of the new criteria that will be adopted, otherwise we should set up a new register in which we fall - I repeat - what we have already included in some local lists. It does not seem to me the best of logic from an organizational point of view, I would prefer there to be an evaluation of what is already contained in previous catalogues. I would therefore like this amendment to be taken into account. With regard to Amendment 3,203, I regret to disagree with the 5th Commission of which I am a member, but we are in November 2015 and this article provides for expenditure to be carried out in 2015. Since this law was passed in the House in December 2014, and will probably not be passed by the end of this year after returning to the House (because we are going to examine the bill of stability), I think that, in the interest of the law, what we must do is commit the funds to 2016. If we commit the funds to create these catalogues on 2015 we cannot use them in 2016. I understand that the slowness of legislative developments conditions these passages, but we must take note of them. The fact that I propose that we go to 2016 as an expenditure commitment for the implementation of Article 3 seems to me to be an absolute logic; nor can we, during the law of stability, as always, modify something that is not yet finally approved; in fact, I repeat that this law will not be finally approved before the law of stability is passed. Beyond the fact that the 5th Commission has voted against, I will insist on the vote, thinking that this opinion can be reviewed in the House in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u105	Mr President, Amendment 3,301 is very technical: it calls for the replacement of endangered species - a rather generic expression - with endangered native animal genetic types. It's technicalism. Mr President, I would also like to take this opportunity to explain the G3200 agenda, which is much more expensive to me, because it says that, in order to be able to include a resource in the National Biodiversity Register, an inquiry should be opened. This investigation, rightly, is aimed at verifying a number of characters and is, therefore, a practice that in some ways can also be costly. In fact, it needs a set of genetic material, photographic and everything else. With this agenda, therefore, the government is asked to intervene on the regions that already have a plant protection body to assist those citizens who intend to enter these varieties, so as to try to reduce the expenses. We know that it is an important element, because the more species and varieties are written to the registry the better: in fact, we know that it is not patentable products. I therefore call for this agenda to be considered.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u106	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u107	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u108	I am against Amendment 3.4. By sharing Mr D'Alì's concerns and assessments, I would ask that Amendment 3,200 be turned into an agenda, if possible, because we can consider giving some indications that this data is not transferred to a new registry. On Senator Gaetti's amendment 3,301, the opinion was in favour, while on 3,202 the opinion was against. On 3,203 the Budget Commission gave a negative opinion: in any case, I believe that Mr D'Ali himself knows that when measures are adopted in the last months of the year these automatically can be transferred to 2016. I believe that, given the waiting times we have recorded, it would be important to be able to maintain this transfer. My opinion is therefore against Amendment 3,203. On the agenda, G3,200, I return to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u109	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion. On Mr Gaetti's agenda, Mr G3,200, my opinion is in favour. I would also point out that the Committee referred to in Article 8 has among its objectives precisely to promote the exchange of experience and information, in order to ensure the application of existing legislation on this subject. I therefore believe that it is absolutely in line with what the agenda proposes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u110	Senator D'Alì, do you accept the request that the rapporteur's amendment 3,200 be changed to the agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u111	Mr President, I can accept the rapporteur's invitation, although the Presidency will have to consider the fact that we are going to adopt an agenda which is contrary to the rule: I do not know whether this is a practice that we can adopt; however, if the Presidency agrees, I will turn the amendment into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u112	It's up to you, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u113	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). I would like to explain, Mr President, that the agenda would run counter to the rule we are approving, which provides for all existing registers in municipalities and regions to be included in the register. I say: no, before you insert them, you have to make a critical assessment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you for your attention, but the rapporteur has given this opinion. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). If the rapporteur thinks that it can be done and if the government thinks that it is a discrimination that can be implemented, despite the dictates of the norm, I accept the request for a change to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u116	PIGNEDOLI, rapporteur. Mr President, despite the choice of right to transfer to the registry, I believe that a critical and not automatic criterion can also be followed, as proposed by Senator D'Alì. I think there is room for an agenda of this kind: otherwise, the opinion on the amendment is negative.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u117	I therefore believe that Senator D'Ali accepts the invitation as indicated by the rapporteur and the Government. I therefore ask him to give us the text of the agenda in accordance with the amendment. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Definitely, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.4. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G3200a agenda will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,301 tabled by Senators Gaetti and Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,202.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u120	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). In the illustration I have escaped to point out that in my opinion this paragraph 5, no matter how much it does, as the rapporteur said, of the precise references to international treaties, in the first part emphasizes the content of those treaties, establishing an absolute non-subjectibility to the intellectual property right of the results of research or deepening in this field. This, in my opinion, will certainly limit research in favour of the protection of biodiversity and, if only what the international treaties of Geneva and Rome say could be adhered to, without further emphasising this aspect of the non-obligability of intellectual property rights of research products, I believe that this could be appropriate. It is therefore not the whole deletion of paragraph 5 that I am concerned about, but the limitation of the forecasts of non-usability to the requirements of the international treaties.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u121	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,202 tabled by Senators D'Alì and Scoma. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 3,203 is impervious. Having been accepted by the Government, the G3200 agenda will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u122	Mr President, I am speaking mainly to point out that my Commission - I am sorry to be at times in conflict with a Commission which normally operates for more exquisitely technical-accounting factors than politicians, or at least should - obviously ignored the last part of the amendment, which is the deletion of Article 5. In this article, we intend to propose two forms of intervention on the advertising of the Biodiversity Register: the National Network and the Portal. My proposal is to check the two options and keep only the network option. Creating both a network and a portal sounds like an opportunity for me to do some more bidding. I think it would be simpler and cheaper to unify the two forecasts, opting only for the network.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u123	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u124	I call on you to withdraw and turn amendment 4,200 into an agenda and I am against Amendment 4,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u125	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u126	Senator D'Alì, do you accept the call to turn amendment 4,200 into an agenda? D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please send the draft agenda to the Presidency. Having been accepted by the Government, the G4200 agenda will not be put to the vote. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 4,201 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 5, on which an amendment and an agenda have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 5.2 is impervious. Senator Donno, if the request were supported by the prescribed number of senators, you could insist on the vote: will you do so? WOMAN (M5S). Yes, Mr President, I insist on your vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Once you have checked your support for your request, you can explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u127	Mr President, I have also tabled an amendment to Article 3 in which I pointed out a double establishment of two networks in order to be able to group these species that should be catalogued and in particular I pointed out that there is already an expenditure of 288,000 euros; moreover, in Article 5 (3) there is a forecast of an additional expenditure of 152,000 euros for the year 2015 for the creation of this network. Amendment 5.2 aims to point out that the estimated total cost of EUR 440,000 for the registry portal is excessive; therefore, considering the spending review and the crisis that the agricultural sector is going through, it would be desirable for the Ministry to adapt to this climate of narrowness for farmers and therefore we ask for a rationalization of the use of this public money. In this sense, the establishment of this portal should at least support the existing one, so it would be appropriate to reduce the relative forecast of expenditure, if not even to foresee that it is without expense to the State. For these regions with amendment 5.2, to paragraph 1, after the word: "set up", we ask to add the following: "without new or greater burdens on public finances". [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u128	Senator Donno, will you also explain the agenda for G5,200? WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I have not yet received the opinion on this agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Are you not going to explain the G5200 agenda at your signature? WOMAN (M5S). I'll do it after the opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It will then, if necessary, intervene in the explanation of vote. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendment and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u129	I am against Amendment 5.2, but I would like to return to the Government on the G5200 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u130	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on Amendment 5.2. As far as the agenda is concerned, G5,200, the opinion is in favour, provided that the reformulation that I am going to read on the part of the provisions (the premises are good): "to ensure the functioning of the National Biodiversity Portal of agricultural and food interest within the human, instrumental and financial resources available under current legislation and in any case without additional burdens on public finances".
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u131	Senator Donno, do you accept the proposed reformulation? WOMAN (M5S). I accept that, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G5,200 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u132	Mr President, I think that paragraph 2 of Article 6 can be usefully deleted, once again for a reason for operational simplification. Why do we have to keep evidence, with reference also to the local genetic resources of the territory, and in addition we have to keep 21 regional evidence? If we are to move towards rationalization, even in the overall interest of the country, paragraph 2 can usefully be deleted. After that, I wanted to make a small remark, Mr President, on the amendment 6,300 tabled by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u133	Senator D'Alì, amendment 6,300, tabled by the rapporteur and published in Annex III, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u134	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I regret that this amendment has been withdrawn because I have tabled a similar amendment to Article 8, because I do not understand why this vaguely catechetical notion of guardian farmers cannot be attributed to farmers as well. So far we have been talking about farms and livestock farms. Why are only farmers and not farmers included in the famous committee and in all the monitoring bodies of this affair, which concerns both agriculture and livestock farming? In fact, having tabled this amendment to Article 8, I wanted to ask the rapporteur also to table an amendment to that article, since she had tabled the amendment in question to Article 6. I considered this to be an absolute common sense inclusion and I do not understand why it is only farmers and not farmers, because we are committed to following biodiversity in both fields. At this point, I would like to ask the rapporteur - and I hope she does not want to do so - to maintain her amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u135	Mr President, paragraph 1 of Article 6 provides that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the autonomous regions and provinces of Trento and Bolzano, as far as their respective competence is concerned, shall identify, without new or increased burdens for public finance, public and private entities with proven experience in this field in order to activate the ex situ conservation of the local genetic resources of their territory, including for the purpose of participation in the National Network of Agricultural and Food Biodiversity. We propose with amendment 6.5 to add, after paragraph 2 of this Article, paragraph 2-a, which provides that: The choice of guardian farmers favours members of local communities traditionally engaged in the conservation of genetic resources and those who have rediscovered or identified them. We believe that it is almost right to make a choice of preference towards those guardian farmers, who make up those local communities traditionally engaged and active in the conservation of genetic resources. They have provided for their rediscovery or identification, because they are the ones who have experienced these activities in the first place. So, in order to activate this conservation precisely in the home farms of the local plant genetic resources, which are at risk of extinction and genetic erosion, we would prefer that they had almost a preferential channel, precisely because of a question of who came first to work directly on the territories. For this reason, we present the integration of this paragraph 2-a. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The remainder of the amendment is set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u136	The opinion is against all the amendments. I would also like to stress that guardian farmers are also meant to be farmers. It was thought to strengthen this term, but in reality it would create more confusion. Therefore, we have kept to the general term that includes everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u137	The opinion was in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u138	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,200. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,200, tabled by Senators D'Alì and Scoma. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6.1 tabled by Senators Gaetti and Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6,300 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.5, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u139	Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 7.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u140	The Presidency takes note of this. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u141	The opinion on the amendments is opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u142	The opinion was in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u143	Amendment 7.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 7,200. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,200, tabled by Senators D'Alì and Scoma. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u146	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, always with a view to saving or respecting the times (because this measure has finally arrived), we ask to establish that the decree of the Minister of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies referred to in Article 7 (1) is issued within one hundred and twenty days from the date of entry into force of this law, so as to have a starting point to address the next issues. I would remind you that this decree updates the National Biodiversity Plan of agricultural interest and national guidelines for the conservation of plant, animal and microbial biodiversity. We therefore call for certain and pre-arranged deadlines in order to have a classification and legislation in good time. We want certain times: instead you want certain money, but you also have to give certain times and respect the rules in certain times.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u149	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Amendment 7.2 would seem appropriate in the light of Senator Donno's explanation. However, on the basis of the interpretation given by myself and my colleague Mr Amidei, it would appear that the planned updates consist in the inclusion in the National Plan of new species and elements of biodiversity to be protected. In this case, the forecast of one hundred and twenty days does not appear relevant because it is an update that must always be done (I think, for example, if in six months' time an application is made for the inclusion of a new element of biodiversity). If the rapporteur or the representative of the government could give us a hand and an explanation, both we and Senator Donno could settle. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked the government representative to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u150	I confirm what Senator Malan said earlier: in this case it is not possible to indicate a precise date and term, as this would affect the norm itself. The opinion therefore remains opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u151	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.2, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.201 tabled by Senators D'Alì and Scoma. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u152	Mr President, with amendment 8.2, we expect that the members of the committee, which last five years, will not be renewable in order to provide for a replacement of the members of the committee. Article 8 provides for the establishment of a Standing Committee on Agricultural and Food Biodiversity to ensure coordination of actions at State level. With amendment 8.3, however, we expect that the representatives of the regions, since there are only six, will be chosen on the basis of the homogeneity of the bio-geographical and ecological characteristics between neighbouring regions. We also consider this to be an amendment worthy of attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u153	Mr President, since the government and the majority have opted for the maintenance of this new committee, so this new structure, which I think is somewhat redundant and not simplifying, must be limited to excessive ministerial discretion in the appointment process. Therefore, if the representative of the world of university and research were appointed on the indication of the agrarian faculties of our universities, I believe that this would be appropriate. Otherwise we could see, as in many other cases we have seen, that the Minister may also choose a non-cathedral, but a researcher or assistant of his own knowledge, and points him out as a member of the committee. I think we need an indication from the academic world. This is true of Amendment 8,200. As far as so-called guardian farmers are concerned - I will say later also because I insist that, in addition to farmers, farmers are included - also in this case of providing an indication of a representative of keeper farmers. However, this should be indicated at least by the most representative trade organisations and a limit should be placed on the excessive discretion of the ministerial indication. Here we are witnessing the proliferation of committees, which, as always, can be the subject of absolute discretion - not to use the word "clientele" - of some political parties. So there is at least one indication that comes from the most representative associations. Strangely, when it comes to trade unions, they are always put among those who indicate possible appointments; when it comes to business representatives, they are not considered as an authoritative source for the indication of the member of a committee. With Amendment 8.203, I would like to return to a specific subject: either amend Article 4, which speaks unequivocally of farmers and farmers, or you have to include the reference to farmers and farmers specifically in each committee. Make a deal. If farmers are included among farmers, then amend Article 4, where it is said that the National Biodiversity Network is made up of farmers and farmers. If Article 4 is not amended, you must include a representative of farmers and a representative of farmers in the Standing Committee on Biodiversity. It is logical, among other things, because, although they are all included in the more general and overall context of agricultural affairs, they represent two sectors that are absolutely distinguishable and with certain different interests. So why in this case should a farmer, since he is considered a farmer, represent farmers, or vice versa, a farmer should represent farmers? From the moment we are creating bodies and committees, what moves to insert an extra person? I repeat: for the sake of logical consistency or also of amendment of Article 4, and you speak only of farmers, or, in the light of Article 4, which you propose in the same wording, to the House, to the Senate and to the relevant Commissions, you must accept that there is also a differentiation in the composition of the Committees. [[Senator Colucci's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u154	Amendment 8.7 calls for the composition of the Committee referred to in Article 8 to be better specified and for it to be made up of a representative of public research bodies competent in this field, and not necessarily, as Senator D'Ali asked, a representative of an agricultural faculty. We call for this member to be chosen from among the representatives of the public bodies which have a pool of competent persons, which can be used to give a relevant opinion. By way of amendment 8.8, however, we have serious concerns, because the Committee would seem to be a duplication, because there is already a committee which should have fulfilled the functions envisaged. It therefore seems that there are overlaps of competences: one thinks of promoting the exchange of experiences and information in order to ensure the application of existing legislation in this field or that of defining a common system for the identification, characterisation and evaluation of local genetic resources. There are already those who carry out these tasks and, therefore, I wonder why we should set up a committee with such powers. We ask that at least these two functions should not be included in those of the committee concerned or, at least, that the work of the existing committee be assessed. Among other things, we have seen that, until now, the existing committee has not had the desired effect in all these years. I would therefore like to make a comment on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u155	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u156	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u157	I am in favour of amendment 8,201 (text 2), first signed by Senator De Petris, which accepts the proposal to bring from one to three representatives of farmers and guardian farmers, designated by the Conference for Relations between the State and the Regions. We believe that this should be a later decision and I would also like to make it clear to Senator D'Ali that the definition of guardian farmers was proposed by an amendment which I tabled in Article 6 in that case created confusion with regard to the objective of Article 6. In this case, when we talk about representation, and also afterwards, I think it is right to strengthen the idea that guardian farmers should be represented, strengthening and ensuring that farmers are also included. Therefore, if Amendment 8,201 (text 2) is adopted, Amendment 8,203 would be taken over. I therefore call on Senator D'Alì to withdraw it. The opinion is opposed to the other amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u158	Mr President, I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u159	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.2, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.3, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,200, tabled by Senators D'Alì and Scoma. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8,201 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u162	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since Senator Pignedoli, rapporteur for the measure, has invited me to converge on this amendment - as I understand it - which also provides for the term 'keepers', I have no difficulty in doing so, but I have to make a small remark. The first-signed amendment by Senator De Petris, which - I repeat - I propose that it be approved, once again brings the selection of members back into a purely public-political beehive, whereas it would be more appropriate for it to be entrusted in part to the private component of the trade associations, because we have a committee that is all of public designation. I understand that this is ideologically the orientation of the left-wing majority, but I do not understand why the private party cannot contribute with a presence of designation by the professional associations to the composition of the committee; it designates a minister, then another minister, the State-Regions Conference, the local authorities: they are all political appointments and, although political appointments can also take account of entrepreneurial qualifications, there is no expression that comes from the world of enterprise or from the professional associations. I would therefore like to make the same proposer reflect on the point: if she wanted to amend the text by providing that the appointment of the three representatives rather than by the State-Regions Conference or by the local authorities was made at least in part by the trade associations, I believe that this could be a good compromise solution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u163	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,201 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.5, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8202 tabled by Senators D'Alì and Scoma. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.7, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Does Senator D'Alì accept the rapporteur's call for the withdrawal of amendment 8203? D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, ma'am. I'm taking him back. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.8, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.10 tabled by Senators Gaetti and Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 8 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u164	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] I would like to inform the House that yesterday, at the age of ninety-three, Senator Mafalda Molinari, who was a member of the Senate in the 12th legislature and protagonist of the life of her territory in the city of Civitavecchia, disappeared. In addition to being engaged in the Senate for a parliamentary term and in the political and administrative life of her city, she was, together with her family, founder in 1945 of the Molinari company, one of the most famous in Italy. I think it is right that the Assembly should remember its political commitment, its commitment to the Senate Assembly of the Republic, its entrepreneurial activity and the activity of the Molinari Foundation which, in the city of Civitavecchia, continues to stand out for its support for various social initiatives. We remember Senator Molinari with a minute of silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u167	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Saturday 10 October, a violent air trumpet struck the South of Sicily and the city of Licata in particular, devastating agricultural structures, tunnels, greenhouses, sheds, fences, containment walls, crops on more than 200 hectares, as well as other craft and commercial activities in the city. The farms were hit while they were in full production and a few days from harvest. This destruction burned investment and compromised the entire agrarian year. In a few minutes he brought to his knees the economy of the Licata region that had already been shaken, like the rest of Sicily, by the crisis of recent years. Hundreds of families are small on the pavement and do not have the economic possibility to rebuild the structures that have been destroyed. The Council of the Sicilian Region has already resolved for these areas the declaration of the state of natural disaster and has been asked the Presidency of the Council the recognition of the state of emergency in order to request extraordinary interventions and support. Let us think of the use of the National Solidarity Fund, former legislative decree No 102 of 2004, which can be used for natural disasters, and ask the Minister for Agricultural Policies to carry out a survey, to assess personally the situation and the state of despair of Licata and the people of Licata. This is one of those cases where the state can make its fairy-tale presence felt. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u170	ORRU' (PD). Mr President, I rise to draw your attention and the House to yet another road and railway disruption in Sicily in recent days, as a result of the bad weather in my region and has caused further serious damage mainly to road and rail traffic. In particular, on 15 October last, the flood of a stream in the province of Caltanissetta caused the collapse of part of the railway massif, with the consequent exit from the railway tracks of the Regional train 3802 Palermo-Catania. Two people, the driver and a traveler were slightly bruised. Other sections of railway line on Palermo-Catania and between Castelvetrano and Alcamo, and on Piraineto-Trapani were involved with interruptions due to bad weather. With regard to the road sections involved, one of them is the same on which in recent months the traffic of the Palermo-Catania motorway has been diverted, since the viaduct Himera was involved by the collapse of some pylons last April. And even if, from what is learned, already in recent hours the movement has been restored reopening the last sections of the road between the provinces of Palermo and Trapani - and it seems that it is being provided also with regard to the railway connections - I want to emphasize, Mr President, that unfortunately periodically we find ourselves doing the count of the damages due to the arrival of the bad weather or structural collapses or to landslides caused by carelessness or lack of maintenance, that certainly involve all the national territory, but that in particular in my Region, Sicily, continue to create dramatic situations of blocking the circulation and - what is more serious - putting at risk the safety of citizens and travellers. As if that were not enough, the smaller municipalities, but not only, find themselves in serious difficulty to manage the emergencies in the matter of roads, mainly due to the bad weather, since in Sicily the law that redefines the competences of the local authorities has not yet been passed (I refer to the law on the abolition of the Provinces). I would like to remind you that I have spoken several times in this House to urge the Government to respond to some of my inspection documents presented at the same time as specific landslides or structural failures, which have not yet been answered (and I can also point out to the Presidency the number of acts). But the real question, Mr President, which I care about is to urge, through the Presidency - beyond the response to the acts I have called for - the attention of the Government to proceed with the utmost urgency, in consultation with local authorities and stakeholders, to a precise and rigorous mapping of the entire Sicilian road and rail system, before there are new and dangerous calamitous events, favored also by the imminent winter season, which would end up paralysing further the viability of the entire region. This has the aim of allowing to no longer operate with interventions of "tangle", aimed at the single event and with resources destined to the single problem, but to have a complete picture of the Sicilian infrastructural situation, for which to foresee - finally and once for all - an overall picture of organic and synergistic interventions that, besides being an important saving in economic terms, since it is always much more profitable "to prevent that cure" can make Sicily a normal region, that is: safe, efficient and strategically interconnected from the road and railway point of view. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u173	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, on the night between Wednesday 14 and Thursday 15 a storm hit Benevento. Many people have received huge damage; then there are companies and, among them, Agrisemi Minicozzi, Metalplex and Rummo. In Italy we have the flower of companies that produce typical dishes, including also typical products. Rummo is a company that produces pasta and I let you imagine what can happen if such a company is flooded, flooded: machinery, raw materials, everything has been destroyed. We hope that the competent authorities - in particular I refer to the Government - will give a concrete hand and not that of the announcements, as we have seen in Calabria, where citizens are still waiting for a concrete hand, because a whole city is on its knees, together with companies that export around the world and are the flagship of Italy. Currently 1,500 workers are stationary. The Government intervenes for our Italy and for the Italian product. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u174	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u176	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I realize that the Presidency - certainly you, but above all the summit of this institution - is taking the Government to the need to answer questions, because this is not an optional or secondary aspect, especially since oppositions, but generally the Senate, are being removed from the other faculties. With this in mind, I urge the answer to question 3-02216, signed by me and Senator Gasparri, who asks the Government for timely intervention to prevent acts already done by the Executive give a billion and a half of the taxpayer to a private company, without this having done anything useful for the country, nor has any other preferential securities, except that of having already collected money in the past. I urge the answer to Question No 4-02972 of 11 November last year, on the problem of the very serious disease of endocarditis, to understand what is the government's approach to expenditure and prevention. I ask the answer to question 2-00166 of 11 June 2014, more than a year ago, first signed by Senator Giovanardi and other nineteen, including myself, on the failure of parliamentarians to invite all the Carabinieri ceremonies. I urge, more than the others, but not last, the answer to the question 2-00252, at the first signature of Senator Amidei and with 56 other signatures, among which of course that of the undersigned, of 5 March 2015, asking the Government what it intends to do to answer the questions. Finally, I would like to call for answers to a number of questions and questions concerning education in schools and the so-called problems of this kind: in other words, the indoctrination which, according to some people, including myself, is done in schools, and on which the Government denies public, but does not answer questions. In particular, I am referring to the question 3-01418 of 13 November, concerning the fact that Italy voted against the family in a resolution to the Human Rights Council at the United Nations on 25 June 2014, on which the Government has not yet given any explanation; to two questions of 23 December 2013 and 2 January 2014, respectively the 2-00106 and 2-00107, on the eruption of LGBT organisations in schools; finally, to the question 2-00299 of 5 August 2015, at the first signature of Senator Giovanardi, followed by those of Senators Gasparri, Malan and Formigoni, on one of these associations, accredited to the Presidency of the Council and that UNAR requests to be accredited to schools, entitled to a character whose only intellectual work was a symphony in honor of pedophilia and pederasia, as well as some other secondary and less harmful perversions. To all these acts the Government has never responded, although urged, except then push for certain measures to be taken. Finally, last really, there is the questioning 2-00306, of October 2, on an episode in which a student, who posted child pornography photos on the Internet, was defended by swords also from school authorities and those who had problems were the school and the teacher. I'd say that's enough. And I really hope that the President of the Senate will take care not of the issues here, but of the fact that the government itself has to answer questions. It's not optional. [[Applause from Senators Amidei and Blund.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u177	Thank you, Senator Malan, for the objective and calm intervention, which highlights the irresponsibility of the various ministries, who are usually not answering most of the questions. It is an ancient habit, which I frankly deprecate once more, although unfortunately it is not just a phenomenon of recent times. The issues you referred to are all important and, therefore, we publicly urge the Government, inviting it to be ashamed of its reluctance. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u178	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-526.ana.u179	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, October 21, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.01 p.m.
