ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u4	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 19, 657, 711, 810, 846, 847, 851 and 868, in the unified text proposed by the Commission. I would remind you that at its meeting on 19 March the rapporteur gave the oral report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u9	Madam President, I am obliged to present a question of constitutionality which is also prompted by the opinion of the 1st Commission, which you will read because it is in the proceedings. As you know, during the examination of the draft law in question, the Government submitted two amendments to Articles 2621 and 2622 of the Civil Code. In Article 2621 as amended, it is stated that the directors and other entities indicated in order to achieve for themselves or for others an unjust profit... knowingly expose material material facts which do not correspond to the truth or omit material material facts the disclosure of which is imposed by the Law on the economic, financial or financial situation of the company. In Article 2622 of the Civil Code, always as amended, it is expected that the persons indicated in order to achieve for themselves or for others an unjust profit... knowingly expose material facts that do not correspond to the truth or omit material facts relevant to the communication of which is required by law... Regardless of the different wording of the two articles, since Article 2622 does not indicate the case of material facts, but only material facts (difference which is already relevant to the interpreter), in the course of the examination in the Commission the Government and the rapporteur, on a specific question whether the words "material facts" were to be considered as constituent elements of the present case, were to be answered in the affirmative. Subsequently, the opinion of the 1st Commission was received, which asked for further consideration in the light of the principles of the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 247 of 1989 in relation to the adherence of the two amendments of the Government to the remarks made. That would be enough here... [[Brusio.]] Madam President, I realize that the majority probably, thanks to the strength of its numbers, does not think it appropriate to listen because it is nevertheless able to vote on flawed rules of unconstitutionality that will expose citizens to a situation of criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u10	Senator Caliendo, I realize, but, as you know, you also interfere many times. It's really very complex. I would ask Members to pay more attention and to lower the volume of chatter.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u11	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I realise that we are living in a season when Parliament, rather than discussing and deepening matters, is voting for anything because of the numbers of the majority. In the present case, it would be sufficient to say that, in the case of the constituent elements of the case, there is no doubt as to the inconstitutionality of applying the principles from the judgment of the Constitutional Court referred to by the 1st Commission. However, I do not feel that the opinion of the Government, proposing the rule, is personally binding on the Assembly. I believe that it is necessary to make a careful assessment of the meaning of the expressions in question. Preliminarily, account should be taken of what the Constitutional Court has stated. The principle of determination is violated not so much when it is left wide margin to the discretion of the interpreter, but when the legislator, knowingly or not, refrains from making the choice relative to all or much of the type of disvalue of the wrongdoing, entrusting this choice to the judge, who thus becomes free to choose typical meanings. The rules in question, by rotating the whole or a large part of the offensive disvalue from material facts relevant to it, infringe the first paragraph of Articles 3, and the second paragraph of Article 25 of the Constitution. In fact, not finding the type of wrongdoing, it makes the judge really referee of the right and of the wrongdoing. Even to support the thesis that the expression "material facts" defines the concrete operation of the illegality, which would already be identified by the psychological element of the dole and the offensive content of the fact, this would mean that even if we find ourselves in a different situation, the norms would still be unconstitutional. In particular, the Constitutional Court states that the material facts which are relevant are only the selective filter, which does not affect the inherently offensive dimension of the fact, but only the gravity of the matter, marking the limit from which the punitive intervention is deemed appropriate, must be subject to the command of the determination for the principle of equality laid down in Article 3 of the Constitution. The legislator, in the process of forming the standard, cannot fail to identify criteria that allow the expression to be given a "determined" meaning, so as to avoid unequal treatment in the repression of such crimes. For this reason, the existing Articles 2621 and 2622 of the Civil Code contain criminality thresholds that have passed the scrutiny of legality by the European Court of Justice (EC 3/5/2005) and the Italian Constitutional Court, in judgment No 161 of 2004, which states as follows: The criminality thresholds provided for in Article 2621 complement essential requirements of the nature of the event... But the conclusion could not be different, should - if they were to be considered - conditions of criminality. In either perspective, however, it is an element that defines the area of action of the sanction provided for by the criminal law and, it does not already subtract certain facts from the scope of other more general rule: an element, therefore, that expresses a legislative assessment in terms of "memorableness", i.e. the need for punishment, so the Constitutional Court, in 2004. That is why, Madam President, we are already experiencing a Kafki situation in assessing this draft law: only because of the question of affirming the principle that must begin in a certain day, do we have to assess it, despite the rules adopted yesterday by the House on the prescription effect on it (we will talk about it later, about the amendments). So we do things that have no coherence, which could only have been guaranteed by the Government, which has the possibility to calibrate the interventions according to what happens in the two chambers. What can I say? Take the file of the Commission's amendments: the Government, during its examination there, had proposed a text amending Article 2621 which provided for the thresholds for criminality. I therefore wonder what action has been taken and what reasons the majority, secret and unexpressed, have led to the exclusion of the criminality thresholds laid down by the Government, not by the opposition. Analogous discourse - which is even more serious - can be done for the detected omission, after the words "material facts not responding to the truth," of the indication "even though the subject of assessments." Do you realize that? Each of us imagines that he is a judge who must apply the rule or an attorney who must defend a client: this expression, which has always been inserted, is omitted today. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Madam President, I have concluded. I asked the Government and the rapporteur why this indication was omitted: is this no longer a crime? On the "Corriere della Sera", just yesterday, it was indicated that it is no longer considered a crime, but it is not so. The rapporteur himself and the government have said that it will be a task of jurisprudence. Do you realize that? A foreign company that comes to our country and knows our legislation, seeing that those assessments are no longer planned, what should you think, that that is still intended as a crime or not? In the case of evaluations, we know how all estimates can swing from one interpreter to another. Finally, Article 444 of the Code of Criminal Procedure conditions the admissibility of a plea for a plea for a return of profit only with regard to corruption offences and those against public administration. Now, regardless of the fact that sometimes there is no profit, there is a difference between corrupt and corruptor, so the eligibility condition would only apply to the corrupt and not to the corrupter. But there is an even more serious aspect. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). The question I ask you is: does it seem logical for the thief, who snaps the poor woman who receives the pension, to be able to settle without having to return anything, as well as the extortortioner or the tax evader? Does this seem correct to you? I therefore believe that these reasons should lead us to decide not to proceed with the examination of this bill. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u12	He asked Senator Falanga to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u13	Madam President, the question I have referred to relates to two legislative references of constitutional rank. The first is Article 73 of the Constitution, which, in the third paragraph, reads as follows: The laws shall be published immediately after the promulgation and shall enter into force on the 15th day following their publication, unless the laws themselves provide for a different period of time. The other reference is Article 10 of the pre-laws, which provides that: The laws and regulations shall become mandatory on the tenth and fifth day following that of their publication, unless otherwise provided for. What happened in the Justice Commission? The Government submitted amendment 7.0.20000 at a time when legislative decree No 28 of 16 March 2015 was not yet published, to which that amendment by the Government made an express appeal. Well, when I pointed out in the Commission justice that in the government amendment there was a reference to a rule that had not yet been published at that time, the mythical Deputy Minister Costa, to the truth, had a slip, to the point that he asked for a time to suspend the work, and, coming to the Commission shortly, candidly told us that the decree referred to in the amendment would be published at that time. Of course, we were not given the opportunity to read the text of the decree, so how could we have submitted sub-amendments to the Government's amendment by not having the text of the legislative decree available? It was distributed to us, in paper form, but I pointed out that the legitimacy to submit sub-amendments was not only of the members of the Justice Commission, but of all the senators. Then, he returned to the next day, when the publication, in fact, had taken place. It was also possible to spread the text on the Senate website, thus transforming our site into a sort of Official Journal. In short, the most varied and varied "arrabbattments" to compensate and to justify a macroscopic error of the Government in the time of the presentation of the amendment. Senator D'Ascola, rapporteur for the measure, towards which I have a deep respect and respect for his technical-legal knowledge (his science really puts me in a condition of awe), made a remark that, I must say, is extremely suggestive and, I would also say, perhaps the only one that could be done. Senator D'Ascola argues that, while the process of this measure comes to an end, with the examination of the Senate, the fifteen so-called days of the vacatio legis will be overcome and, therefore, the vice will be healed. I certainly believe that the solution, that is the observation, of Senator D'Ascola is relevant and correct. For intellectual honesty, as an operator of law, I must admit that Senator D'Ascola is right. However, today the process of this bill is not yet completed and I have the duty, I would say the obligation, to present the question for a preliminary ruling, because at this moment the legislative decree to which the amendment of the Government refers - and, to be honest, precise that it is an important amendment, which affects the non punishableness of the case for the reasonableness of the case - is not yet in force; therefore, I repeat, I had to present the question for a preliminary ruling. I know that the formal defect in the legislative process of the rule may also not be shared by the Constitutional Court. I have some concerns about this, but the culture of the lawyer leads me to raise the questions, except that those who have to give the judgment accept or do not accept the argument. But there is something else - and I invite the Government and the majority to reflect - that, however, is not the subject of the question before us, because only later, in the deepening of the question, did I learn another profile of unconstitutionality. In this regard, I recall the judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 68 of 2012, which declared the constitutional illegitimacy of the case of kidnapping for the purpose of extortion, provided for in Article 630 for the excessive rigour of the minimum edittal. (But this does not concern Deputy Minister Costa, who is still talking about something else, not caring for those in this House who are trying to make suggestions.) The sanctioning system must be organic. With this bill we have placed corruption and the sin on the same level, yet we know that corruption and the sin have always had two different penalty profiles from each other. Now, to provide for this equivalence between two criminal cases, which have a different offensive weight of the legal good to be protected, is a reason for inconstitutionality. As I said, the question I raised will probably be healed in vice as suggested and as Senator D'Ascola observed. Probably, even if the vice had not been healed, the Court would not have had access to my argument; but surely - and you can be sure - in the matter of balance of the sanctioning system this bill will be judged unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court shortly. Take basically unnecessary measures. In the general discussion, I will show you even more significantly the usefulness of what you are doing. In the meantime, Madam President, on the basis of the question I have referred, I would ask you not to proceed with the examination of draft law No 19 and related to it for the reasons which I have perhaps modestly explained to you. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u14	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u17	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, I will speak briefly to justify the vote against by the Five Stars Movement in relation to the questions referred to earlier by my fellow Members, Mr Falanga and Mr Caliendo. The preliminary question QP2, illustrated by Senator Falanga, is based on the assumption that this bill in its part, or in a paragraph of the article that regulates the crime of fake in the budget, refers to a rule, article 131- bis of the penal code, not yet in force because, although it has been published in the Official Journal of 18 March, it will enter into force only from 2 April next. I believe that this issue is unfounded because an analysis would deserve the exception which apparently finds its justification in the factual analysis of the force of the various rules, but there is, in my opinion, a fundamental requirement. There is no actuality of danger. If today we were hypothetically in a place where we were preparing for Parliament's final dismissal of the so-called anti-corruption bill, it could actually pose a problem of system consistency with a rule that still does not exist in the legal order, although it was published in the Official Journal with all the formalities and there is no doubt that that rule will enter into force from 2 April next. In the state, however, there is no topicality of the risk of incoherence and inappropriate calls. We therefore believe that this issue is unfounded. With reference to the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1, at the first signature of Senator Caliendo, we do not agree with the assumptions supported with regard to the expression "material facts relevant to the case." Even here we are talking about the crime of fake in the budget. This definition is to be understood, as has also been said in the Commission by the representatives of the Government, as containing the constituent elements of the crime. Even the whole speech made in the illustration, in relation to the presumed indeterminateness of the case that would leave the interpreter too wide a field of interpretation, seems unfounded, given that the adjective'relevant' referring to material facts we believe should be understood not already referred to the quality of the conduct or the fact, in an interpretative hypothesis that would give dignity to the exception raised: obviously the reference'relevant' is to be understood as "non immaterial'. The regulatory text means that the material fact not corresponding to the truth or omitted in the balance sheet statements or other accounting records where the data are mandatory must have its own intrinsic relevance. It is, therefore, an element of the case with reference to the consistency of the forgery. In other words, trying to simplify, if you want to support a falsehood in a budget because, for example, the numbering of the pages of the same or another material detail of the budget were not corresponding to the truth, then the first examination that the interpreter must make is whether that false or that does not correspond to the truth - a trivial example may be the numerical succession of the pages or dates - is not relevant for the evaluation of the existence of the crime. It is therefore normal that the reference to the term "relevant" should be understood in that sense. Therefore, the argument that Articles 3, paragraph 1 and 25, paragraph 2 of the Constitution would have been infringed should not be accepted, adhering to a reasonable and obviously logical interpretation that appears to us from the examination of the text. With reference to the reference to Article 444 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (application of the penalty at the request of the parties), I do not find the text of Mr Caliendo's intervention, but I believe that the issue is still overcome by the government amendment which excludes in nuce that hypothesis which could possibly be discussed in the matter of constitutional legitimacy. For these reasons, the 5 Star Movement will vote against the alleged unconstitutionality of the text under consideration and therefore calls for further work to be carried out in accordance with the timetable laid down. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u20	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to highlight one aspect of the question raised by Senator Falanga, on which Senator Buccarella replied in particular. Here we have a paradoxical situation where, on the one hand, there are cases that would not be punishable under Article 131- bis of the Criminal Code. I remember that, although you are about to vote on a text containing this article, if you go looking for an updated penal code (and also not updated, of course), you do not find it, because it will be there in a few days. I also recall that the amendment was submitted to the Commission four days before the text of this future Article 131-a was published in the Official Journal. We really have a government of fortune tellers. We have characters very close to distinguished representatives of the Government, one of whom has fleetingly passed through the House yesterday, who know in advance what the Government will do. Perhaps it is a decree on popular banks, and then a bank near them makes operations of great financial foresight and earns about ten million euros with margins of 65%. Then we have the other fortune tellers, always of the government, who present amendments on the application of an article of the penal code that is not yet there. Coming to the content, we have a text that talks about significant counterfeits and relevant falsehoods in the presentation of a company's financial statements. Therefore, they must be relevant, and not the normal alterations compared to what, moreover, questionable, an expert appointed by the court will determine. Then we have a threshold under which, in accordance with Article 131- bis of the Criminal Code, the facts are not punishable because they are minor, along with the other cases provided for in this article of the Criminal Code. Therefore, we do not have the "normal." In theory, this article should not apply to anyone; or, better, the normal counterfeiting and falseness in the budget should not be pursued because we have, in one verse, the facts that are small; in another verse, if they are not small it means that the facts are relevant; and in the middle there is nothing left. It is absurd that this is the case and the legislator (but none of us) wants this to be the case and that the fake in the budget is not punished. I remember, contrary to the falsehoods that are spread every day, that the fake in the budget has always been punishable in our country and is punishable today; just as corruption and all other related crimes are punishable. Those who make the great electoral ad on this bill, as if corruption were not punishable today, say a great falsehood, even if they do not explicitly say so. The arrests we have witnessed these days have been conducted on the basis of the current law, and not of the bill that is being approved (which we hope will not become law). In Article 2621 of the Civil Code we risk having an absurd norm, of very difficult interpretation and spoiled, moreover, by the problem given by the fact that it is introduced in an article that still does not exist. This seems to me to be a very good reason to suspend the debate on this measure, in order to write it better. The propagandistic bubble of this provision, of which I will later illustrate the enormous inconsistencies, is manifested in a particular way on this article: let us write it well. None of us want to make the crime of fake in the budget not punishable. Paradoxically, with this bad way of law-making, one risks making it not punishable or, at least, producing a rule so difficult to interpret and so questionable that it can be considered unworthy of a legislator worthy of this name. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u21	I put to the vote the question referred to you for a number of reasons by Senator Caliendo and other senators (QP1) and Senator Falanga (QP2). It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u22	Madam President, I would like to point out that for some time now it has been almost immemorial that this measure was expected to arrive in this House, which contains different texts, but which to some extent... [[Brusio]] Madam President, I am sorry, but I have difficulty in making my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u23	Colleagues, those who have to leave the Chamber do so quickly, otherwise Senator Morra does not have the physical opportunity to make his speech. I would ask those who remain in this Chamber to speak - if they must - underneath.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u24	Please, Senator Morra, proceed. MORRA (M5S). Among other things, yesterday's news is that even here in Rome some local administrators, both of the Lazio Region and of the Municipality of Rome, were caught (probably, because they were simply reached by a warranty notice) with their foot in foul. I thought that this could further be a reason for paying attention to this issue. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to resume your speech. MORRA (M5S). Madam President, as I said, we are dealing with the examination of a draft law (I refer, in particular, to draft law No 19) which was born under other auspices. Who institutionally presides over this House, that is, President Grasso, on the second day of life of this legislature had deposited this anti-corruption text in order to give a strong signal to the country. This strong signal came to the House after more than two years. Evidently, all this will to bring to the Chamber a measure that perhaps could unravel the country from the pitfalls of corruption and injustice, was not there. Forgive me for being altered, but I note with great pleasure the attention with which this debate is being followed. He taught a certain Prussian philosopher, who probably none of you care about, namely Immanuel Kant: If righteousness disappears, it no longer has any value living men on earth. This is precisely the meaning of the reflection that I want to propose because here, as they say: "you can't care less". Just words, so much so that it took two years to bring a flag of yours to the House, but you cannot translate these words into deeds, into votes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Here there is the need - because you suffer from "tweetatio praecox " - to let Italians know with a tweet that a measure is ready, but so much then the provision does not arrive. The most consistent and consistent demonstration - because justice is the truth - is the ability of this Executive to continually say the false, exactly as you did with the Italians, that you have deceived with the provision relating to the school, of which the text is still expected today. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, I repeat that "you can't care less" because you are chaste, you are incardinated in power and I will repeat it to the last. [[Applause from Senators Engili and Paglini]] A few days ago, someone who should all appreciate in words, exactly in Scampia's, decided to make his voice heard about this problem - and he does it quite often - and it is right that he let you hear it again, because you have to face your responsibilities. What I want you to hear is the Pontiff's voice: if you don't want to hear me, at least hear him, if you like. But then again, you don't want to. [[Senator Morra approaches the microphone with a smartphone that reproduces the Pontiff's recorded voice.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u25	Senator Morra, cell phones are not allowed to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u26	MORRA (M5S). It's a quote, it's a video. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. MORRA (M5S). Corruption spits out. And you force the Italians, who have the idea of what the crap and stench are, the cloache in which you continue to govern the Italians, to resort to this. (Senator Morra locks a paperweight clamp on his nose. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u27	No, Senator Morra, these are unacceptable gestures.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u28	[[Protests from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Today at one o'clock you'll send him back fifteen days! [[Comments by Senators Castaldi and Taverna.]] MORRA (M5S). Actually, no, ma'am! The hypocrisy of a President-in-Office of the Council, who called on the DASPO for the corrupt a few months ago, is unacceptable, except then to impose in the text that we are today dealing with the elimination of this measure. Why don't you have the courage to bring her to the Chamber? And I would like to quote a Saint, who sometimes, in the evening, someone goes to read. St Augustine wondered: "If justice is not respected, what are states, if not of the great gangs of thieves?" I'd like to have an answer from you. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Vacciano. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u29	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u30	Madam President, on anti-corruption, this majority has created strong expectations, but I believe - alas - that they have been frustrated, if this is the final product of so many affirmations and announcements. If I may, within a few minutes, almost to please the House. I thought of one thing: to get to this measure it would be enough to take a schoolboy of the elementary schools, give him a small calculator and teach him the use of the coefficient "K", i.e. a numeret using which you can modify other numbers. The student, taking his calculator and using this coefficient, could have made exactly the changes provided for in the bill under consideration. In fact, it could have been said to the scholar that corruption for the exercise of a function is punished from one to five years: he would have entered the data and would have come to calculate a punishment ranging from one to six years. Corruption for acts contrary to office duties is sanctioned with a sentence ranging from four to eight years: using the schoolgirl's calculator, the penalty would have passed from six to ten years. Corruption in court proceedings, punished with a sentence of four to ten years, then goes from six to twelve years, while punishment for induction to give or promise utility passes from a sentence of three to eight years, to one that goes from six years to ten years and six months. It also came out a six-month-old, perhaps to break the monotony. The most interesting thing to learn about are the mob associations. According to the various paragraphs of article 416- bis, those who are part of a mob association risk from seven to twelve years in prison that will become ten to fifteen; the promoters of the association risked from nine to fourteen years that become twelve to eighteen, until the use of weapons punished from twelve to twenty-four years that would become fifteen and twenty-six, that is the maximum penalty for twenty-four years would increase until twenty-six years. But do you think that a criminal, armed and willing to kill a person in order to reach his goal, would stop because the penalty has increased from twenty-four to twenty-six years? Those who have read something about the economic theory of crime remember Gary Becker who said exactly that the criminal moves like an entrepreneur: he is extremely rational and puts everything in the balance, risks and benefits. What motivates the criminal not to commit a crime and acts as a deterrent? First of all, if the possibilities of being discovered are minimal, the deterrent does not exist. We think 98 percent of the thefts aren't even reported anymore. Probably a criminal who decides to commit a theft, knows he'll almost certainly get away with it. In the second place the investigation, that is the ability of police and prosecutors to arrive at a system of evidence such as to have the accused condemned. If the police work badly, the prosecutors are defamed and you don't get to a specific accusing castle, probably the penalty will never start. The third element that evaluates the criminal is the severity of the judiciary at the time of judgment, if the evidence is considered sufficient. The criminal, among other things, is always considered with an eye to respect to a witness who sometimes risks more than the criminal, since if he does not appear to testify he can be induced to do so co-actively by law enforcement and the sanction sometimes exceeds almost what is imposed on the guilty person. Finally, as a last resort, the criminal looks at the extent of the sentence. But if there are very high possibilities of not being discovered, of not reaching an accusatory castle enough to be condemned and we also consider the prescription, therefore the possibility of delaying the trial over time, there is practically the certainty of impunity. What is the point at this point, and who wrote this rule should give us an explanation, increase the severity of the sentence from twenty-four to twenty-six years, since it is the last of the assessments that a criminal makes to stop or to commit a crime? Another question that would be interesting to put to the Undersecretary: what is the ratio that led to the amendment of Article 444 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, i.e. the plea? The settlement was introduced to streamline the processes. The inquisition, or rather the suspect decides to accept a penalty, agrees with the public ministry and the judge essentially condemns him to the penalty required. The role of the institute is to streamline processes, speed up the times of justice. You change that rule by introducing the possibility of using the plea deal only if the price of the crime's profit is returned. On the one hand it is said that we want to speed up, on the other it is blocked, because if we have to determine what is the profit of the crime, we have to open a parallel process to establish the quantum, because we will not be able to agree at this point, but we will have to know how much has to be returned. Thus the function and purpose of an institution which, in a certain way, has also worked are even frustrated. But the masterpiece of this text is the fake in the budget. The original version started with the statement that there is no fake in the balance sheet if the company, directors or otherwise those who have responsibilities in drawing up accounting documents make an error and therefore escapes within a certain range. Renzi, with his government, established that this range should be 3%. But then it was noticed that setting that threshold was likely to rehabilitate the political opponent, because that 3% would have dropped all the trials against Silvio Berlusconi whose companies, as far as fake in the budget, had certainly paid more than 97%, so that part of the evasion could fall within the margin of formal error. Since tax and tax law is so complex, those who set the threshold of 3 percent in due course thought that it could be an excuseable form of error. Now we do not even have the courage to make legislators and to determine the amount beyond which the crime of forgery takes place in company acts, but according to Article 2621 bis which is intended to be introduced in the civil code it is established that, in case of a small entity, it will be the judge who will determine whether there has been a crime or not. What do you mean by a slight amount? We have entrusted judges with the assessment that we did not have the courage to write. Article 2621-b, which was also added with the Government's amendment, even provides for non-perpetuality if the damage caused is of particular importance. Please note that these are terms that can normally be used in the private affairs of individuals, but it is not possible, in a text, to determine the small extent of a fact and the extent of a damage. This means allowing for trespasses on the part of the judiciary that we have always censored. If the legislator refuses to be a legislator, if he does not have the courage of his own ideas and puts himself in the hands of the magistrates, he shows pavidity in exercising his close function. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u31	I invite you to conclude, Senator Divine.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u32	DIVINE (LN-Aut). I shall begin with the conclusion, Madam President. Let me say that we are a gang of wretched people - and in this great bolgia I too put myself - in the sense that we are following agendas dictated by others. The newspapers say one day that we need to protect the dignity of the person and we run to create the right process, so we cannot keep people out of the way too long. After a short time, the newspapers tell us that it is necessary to punish violent crimes against the person, and we run to tighten the penalties for crimes mostly against women. After that, a journalist discovers that in prisons one lives badly, that there is overcrowding and we then run to approve decrees to the cry of "free all" because the sentenced for penalties punishable up to five years of imprisonment cannot be in prison. Then comes the problem of unpunished crimes and then you have to extend the prescription, because you have to condemn it. Then it is the turn of crimes against the public administration, those that we treat in this anti-corruption measure, and we must increase the penalties again: the plea - I have already said, but it is useful to repeat it - allowed to close the trials quickly, but now the trials will be dilated because it is necessary to determine the amount to be returned. At this point, I'm asking the government if it's lost its compass. We cannot go forward on alien and external drives to satisfy the will of those who make public opinion. You have lost the compass that, if you don't know it, is a small instrument that, however, serves a lot to sailors, to those who do not have to lose direction. We know that we are in the spending review regime and you may not be able to afford it, a compass: we give it to you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u33	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u34	I would remind all my colleagues that they are not allowed to shoot in the Chamber with their mobile phones.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u35	Madam President, I will be careful not to take pictures with my mobile phone in this House a little sad, because the real problem is the sad House. I wanted to start the intervention by reminding all of us that when a people is deprived of freedom, they rebel. Why am I talking about freedom? Because it is a word that is forgotten: the weight of this word has been forgotten. When we do not make a serious anti-corruption law, we deprive the people of their freedom. We should remember this aspect, because when a people cannot be free to do things and see that others do other things, they feel crushed by those who theoretically have power and use it for their personal purposes. The cases of the last few days are obvious, but there are fantastic parallels to what happened 20 years ago. We read of Incalza, great boiard, great manager, great man of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, today represented in its highest expression by a man named Matteo Renzi, because Matteo Renzi is the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport. This simple fact that they have found 2,000 euros, part of 53,000 euros (as it was written in the envelope), behind books in the study of Perotti, partner of Incalza, reminds us of what happened twenty years, when such a Poggiolini, a man much remembered many years ago (people in the Hall and probably also many people outside remember who he is, great associate of Minister De Lorenzo, a man who referred to the idea of liberalism, a man who represented the Italian Liberal Party), who was found with the famous poof full of gold bars and money. This money was closed in the Bank of Italy for twenty years, because they were found in 2013 when, by chance, making checks, 26 million euros were found, Poggiolini's money. We got them back 20 years late. If this is the situation and we are doing this absurd and incredible parallelism, this game of mirrors, we really went back, because in detail, with anti-money laundering, if Poggiolini today used that money to buy a house, so for personal use, it would not be a crime: because although money comes from an illegal, because I spent it for personal use is not a crime. This is written in the anti-corruption law that you have already voted and that we would simply like to change. On the other hand, planting an Indian hemp plant for personal use is a crime. This is very interesting. If Poggiolini or De Lorenzo or Vito Bonsignore (so to say another), all convicted of corruption, wanted to participate in a public administration contract, they could do so. Strangely, Vito Bonsignore is what Orte-Mestre wants to do, in which the state puts EUR 1.9 billion to make a motorway that will cost EUR 10 billion, and which according to the calculations is the most expensive highway in Europe. We are faced with these situations. This has been reduced by the idea of not being able to have contracts with the public administration, the DASPO that has been so much talked about. Why don't we do it? Because the good thing is that if you are convicted, you can contract with the public administration: according to Legislative Decree No. 39 of 2013, in fact, you cannot have positions in the public administration, you cannot be the manager of the public administration, but you can negotiate with the public administration. So where is this sense of reality? Who pays the bribes? The powerful pay her: they pay the bribes. Poor people don't pay bribes: poor people don't pay bribes. But what example do we set? We should be the greatest expression of the example. We have always said that an example must be given to those who have political and public representation and who represent the citizens. But do we set an example? Now comes the prescription, it's been approved. Here too, however, we do not have the courage to intervene in a real way. Renzi, on the occasion of the Eternit trial, said that the government would do much to fight corruption. But what was needed was not done. On the other hand, just to use a football comparison, yesterday Moggi saved himself by prescription. Not to mention what happened with Uncle Silvio, obviously Berlusconi. But that's a well-known story. However, if we wanted to reason on the fact that we did not want to make a serious anti-corruption law, we would notice that it is at odds and therefore expresses all its contradiction with the three founding thoughts of the Republic and the Constitution. By the way, we thank Forza Italia for having submitted a preliminary question on constitutionality. I think it's the first one in this legislature and, by chance, on anti-corruption. Just in case! Look how strange the world is! Apart from that, in the right side of the hemicycle they have always declared themselves liberal (they have always said they are such), but they are contradicting themselves. In fact, a serious anti-corruption law serves to counter market distortions, those who cheat not respecting market rules. They, therefore, contradict themselves, the ideology they claim to represent. Not to mention those who call themselves Catholics, when a man, a gentleman, a philosopher - someone called him Messiah - named Jesus Christ, drove the merchants out of the temple. Maybe you should remember that when you proclaim yourself Catholics and do not make a serious anti-corruption law to kick in the ass those who steal! Should we remember that? And those who are on the left side of the hemicycle, who refer to socialist ideals, who do not have the balls to counter the very concept of power... [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u36	I would ask you to use language in accordance with where we are.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u37	CIOFFI (M5S). I repeat, you do not have the courage to oppose the powerful, who are the ones you must oppose. Poor people don't bribe anyone! CIRINNA' (PD). But work! CIOFFI (M5S). You must have the courage to stand against the power, because otherwise the power is you and it is them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When will you oppose power? Because it's the power that destroyed you. He's never gonna destroy us, because we're gonna suck power. You have to understand that. CARDINALI (PD). Do the theater! CIOFFI (M5S). We will never exercise power if we ever have it. That is the profound difference between us and all of you. You must understand this, because the public's interest is being countered by the very concept of power. It is unthinkable to continue this way. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Citizens have deep, serious problems. Do you know that the wear rate is 18 percent? And with corruption nothing ever changes! It's time to stop and you don't dream, now, when we make the group leader, of blowing the measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u38	Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, draft law No 19 is part of a framework of interventions in line with the already incisive changes made by Law No 190 of 2012, necessary to counter the rampant phenomenon of corruption of politicians, in various ways present in the territorial institutions, as well as officials and employees of public administrations, and to bring Italy into line with international standards on the issue of combating corruption. Among the many voices that have been raised in support of an incisive action to combat corruption, we mention, first of all, the role played by the OECD, which since the 1997 Convention on the fight against corruption of foreign public officials in international economic operations has carried out an awareness-raising work at European level, requiring the acceding States to consider crime, both for natural persons and for legal persons, the corruption of foreign officials in order to gain benefits in international trade. Also the President of the Court of Auditors, Raffaele Squitieri, at the inauguration of the last judicial year, stated that economic crisis and corruption go hand in hand, in a vicious circle in which the one is the cause and effect of the other, and again reiterated that: "illegality has devastating effects on business activity and therefore on growth". It is now clear that there is a deep link between the expansion of the mafia phenomenon and corruption, which is used as a main tool to pollute the social, economic and political fabric. As Raffaele Cantone, president of the National Anti-corruption Authority, explains, corruption is a system in which there is a mechanism of omerta similar to that of the Mafia: there are two subjects who have a joint interest, but have no interest in bringing out the corruptive relationship. We must create those conflicts of interest that allow these facts to emerge and the best way is to create incentive mechanisms. They worked in the mob. I think it's useful with very precise stakes to include them in the anti-corruption package too. It is therefore essential and urgent to take effective action to combat corruption. As far as substantive law is concerned, the law introduces a number of significant novelties, including a tightening of penalties for own corruption, undue induction, ex officio abuse and trafficking of illicit influences, as well as the raising of the prescription and the extension of penalties for the offence of concussion also to the public service officer. These are certainly improvements to the regulatory text, especially as regards the extension of the applicability of the concussion to the public service officer, in view of the fact that the same behaviour put in place by an official can have the same effect on the private sector, if put in place by the concessionaire of a public service. The new rules also provide a penalty discount for those who work with justice, i.e. the reduction of punishment from one third to half in favour of those who work in corruption investigations. It is certainly a useful tool for the fight against corruption, which must be fought with the same strategy put in place against the mafia, also applying a series of safeguards against those who decide to cooperate, so that anonymity is guaranteed in order to avoid consequences in the field of work. However, I reserve the right to express my disagreement about the (too) soft reform in the matter of increasing the prescription, with the amendment of the second paragraph of article 161 of the penal code, which involves the increase up to half the time necessary to prescribe, among others, crimes of concussion, corruption and undue induction to give or promise usefulness. The increase in prescription, as well as the tightening of penalties, is not alone sufficient to combat the phenomenon of corruption. It would have been much more effective, in terms of the repression of crimes and the application of a certain penalty, the cessation of the period of limitation after the decision ordering the judgment. The limitation of criminal proceedings renders judicial proceedings against corruption ineffective, because, after years and years of trial, it is never possible to reach the final judgment. In order not to frustrate the work of the judicial police and the judiciary, and to effectively punish the phenomena of corruption through the conclusion of the trial, Italy should therefore not only suspend the prescription, but finally stop it. This is what happens in all Western democracies, where the institution of the prescription regulates the time between the fulfillment of a crime and its prosecution with the referral to trial. Once the process has begun, however, it cannot stop and must always come to an end. Measures will also have to be implemented to strengthen the judicial machinery, in order to ensure that procedural deadlines are kept down and to ensure the reasonable duration of the criminal proceedings. It is therefore desirable, from this point of view, that legislative measures be taken to simplify the forms of criminal proceedings, provided that they do not result in injury to the right of defence. The draft law No 19 also strengthens the sanctioning apparatus for criminal offences of a corruptive nature, not only by raising prison sentences, but also by introducing the new Article 322 -quater of the penal code in the matter of pecuniary reparation, which provides for the obligation, in the event of a conviction or plea, to pay a sum equal to the amount of what was wrongly received (by the public official or by the person in charge of a public service) as compensation compensation in favour of the administration to which they belong. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in a disastrous panorama such as the one that emerges in Italy, the first country for corruption in the European Union according to the last ranking of Transparency International, it would have been appropriate to introduce more financial penalties for the profit of the crime and significantly higher, rather than obliging the sentenced person to pay a sum equal only to the amount of what was wrongly received. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the changes made to the crimes of false social communications, as referred to in Articles 2621 and 2622 of the Civil Code. In order to combat corruption, it is clear that we must fight false in the budget, through which we can build up black funds to be used to corrupt, to illicitly fund political parties or to unduly favor the respective corporate reference company. The transformation of the conduct from a crime of harm to a danger, the tightening of penalties and the processibility of office, except for small enterprises, are positive changes to the law text, but more than all it is the abolition of the thresholds of non punishableness for small and medium-sized enterprises, in line with what happens in other European countries: in countries like France and the United Kingdom, in fact, these thresholds do not exist, and the false in the budget is always prosecutable. The non-punishment thresholds are only one way of making the crime of fraud in the budget less punishable and of encouraging false conduct which is harmful to the market economy. I have read an article by Professor Andrea Castaldo condemning the abolition of non-penalty thresholds by evoking legislation that, in his opinion, would punish false margins and would not recognize the errors caused by regulatory chaos and bureaucracy. These are presumptuous arguments. How can we talk about panpenalism when in Italy there are too many - I say too many; not all of them, of course - companies that by means of accounting artifices create black funds to bribe and launder dirty money? It would have been to leave unpunished conducts that create social and economic damage to the country. Finally, it is clear that the party's complaint is a completely inadequate instrument in order to punish such conduct, since it is difficult for the members to sue each other, and the Government has done well to present the amendment aimed at eliminating this procedural condition. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. Mr Albano (PD). The new amendment of the Government, however, through the introduction of the expression "relevant material facts" that do not correspond to the true ones, makes a modification that runs counter to the principle of determinism protected by the Constitution, as the word "relevant" is intrinsically indeterminate because it does not clearly outline the content of the penal norm. Inserting the word "relevant" is wrong, because it invites the judge to make his own assessment that in this case would not be interpretative of the law but constitutive of an element of the criminal case, in total contrast to some judgments (Nos. 247 of 1989 and 34 of 1995). With the new amendment the Government also introduces differentiated penalties depending on whether they are listed companies (three to eight years in prison) or not listed (one to five years). This means that it will not be possible for these latter companies to use the wiretapping tool, the assumption of which is that the crime will be more than five years old. Unlisted companies are, in fact, the majority of companies and we do not understand why we should not allow interceptions when the draft anti-corruption law that the Democratic Party has always proposed provides for the maximum sentence at six years. In any case - and I conclude - I believe and repeat that, apart from these regulatory interventions, it is not enough to overcome corruption by intervening after the fact, sanctioning a crime, but it is necessary to prevent the commission of the crime itself. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. Mr Albano (PD). I'll finish. This must be done through good administration measures in order to stop any criminal attempt in the bud, fighting the problem at the territorial and social level, using and strengthening the prevention tools. Therefore, I renew my invitation to my fellow senators to proceed with courage and determination in the introduction of more incisive reforms, which are able to concretely defeat the corruption that so much damage creates to our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u40	We greet the many delegations present today in the Senate: the students of the Archbishop's College of Trento, the City Council of the Teens of the Municipality of Trecenta in the province of Rovigo, the students of the Institute of Higher Education "Filippo Juvara" in Syracuse and other guests invited by numerous senators. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u41	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u42	Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this reform has been waiting for 750 days to be brought to the attention of the Senate. Have you wondered why? To make a measure that puts its hands in the pockets of the Italians, the Government and this majority take a few days, as we have seen in recent weeks with the agricultural IMU or even with the Fornero reform. Instead, for a measure that puts its hands in the pockets of the corrupt has been more than two years and we are still here to discuss a further postponement. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] If that is the question, there is also an answer and it is simple, obvious, also documentable and it is before everyone's eyes: it was necessary to leave time to the Government and the majority to dismantle, piece by piece, the content of the reform of the Senate Act n. 19 at the first signature of the President of the Senato Grasso. Why? Because it was too effective a reform. But if we go to dismantle it and reduce its effectiveness, we do the corrupt a favor and not the anti-corruption. This is proof that this reform has not come to the attention of this House for the first time. It has already happened once, at the request, of course, of the 5 Star Movement, during the European elections, and even then, as now, under the great pressure of public opinion, which demanded and asked loudly for a cleaning intervention, which did not see coming from the institutions, and effective to counter the corruptive phenomena of our country. Well, that measure was placed on the agenda of the Senate and was removed the day immediately following that of closing the polling stations, without starting the discussion. Why was it removed from the agenda? But it is clear: because then that measure had not yet been completely dismantled. Let us go, then, to see what are the components, the parts of the Fat Bill which have been removed and which are not, therefore, the subject of debate in this House today. Article 1 of the Grasso bill - as it happens, we are discussing anti-corruption - speaks precisely of the political-mafia electoral exchange. This is the first point, because corruption undermines the incestuous relationship between the mafia and politics. The bill, which was signed by the vast majority of the Democratic Party senators, provided for a minimum sentence of seven years and a maximum of twelve. The government of this majority, on the other hand, wanted to go in the opposite and opposite direction, i.e. reduce the penalties of the political mafia exchange, which it did by contradicting itself and reducing the penalties to the minimum of more than 40%. And it's not the only pickaxe to the Fat Bill. Let's talk about autocycling. Draft Law No 19 provided for a substantial equivalence between recycling and self-laundering. It was, therefore, a very effective proposal to combat this crime. The Government preferred a different, more attenuated case. Of course, if it is less effective, it is for the benefit of the self-recyclist and the corrupt, and certainly not of the society that wants to combat and combat these phenomena. In addition, the Grasso bill provided for the figure of the undercover agent, a very effective tool for investigating money laundering offences. This bill doesn't just say it. It is a proposal that the 5 Star Movement has been going on for a long time. It is a proposal made own and invoked by the president of the national anti-corruption authority Canton and beyond. The 5 Star Movement submitted an amendment to the Commission which provided for its introduction. The amendment was rejected by the Government and majority, who once again go to disavow the bill Grasso. On the forgery in the budget the draft law Grasso repeals the thresholds of non punishableness which, however, the Government has tried to re-introduce not with the last amendment, but with the previous one. With the last amendment, however, aspects not included in the Senate Act 19 are introduced such as the mitigating circumstances due to a minor fact, which are however defined according to the size of the company. What comes out the door leads back through the window. We know - as Caselli says - that today the law cannot make corruption inconvenient. We also know that we need stricter and more effective laws. I remember, especially in the centre-right, that it is not substantially present at this time in this House, that in the United States the false budget is sanctioned for up to twenty years in prison and the fines are up to EUR 5 million. The 5 Star Movement proposes very simple and effective interventions to counter the corruptive phenomenon. We propose an increase in penalties for corrupting crimes against public administration. We want, we propose and we support finally putting our hands in the pockets of the corrupt, because this gives the norm a greater deterrent scope. We propose - and we are not the only ones - the DASPO for the corrupt and corrupt, that is, the perpetual ban from the public offices and the inability to contract with the public administration. If you have damaged the public administration once, with a judgment passed in court you will no longer make it natural life during. We must protect the common good and not the corrupt or the corrupter. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] We support the suspension of the limitation from referral to trial or from the judgment of first instance. There are also amendments by the Democratic Party in this respect, but in a hypocritical way they will be withdrawn before the vote, as has always been the case in the Justice Commission when we have been called upon to vote on the prescription. It won't take long, but just a little goodwill to fight corruption. This will is not, however, because it lacks courage and the stability of a government and a majority is privileged within which there are forces that see anti-corruption measures as vampires see garlic. Maybe, in here, you flattened yourself on all this by becoming an accomplice. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u43	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u44	(IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for months we have been waiting for this measure with different timings and methods which raise different concerns, taking into account the problem we are dealing with; a problem which, unfortunately, also afflicts Italy, making it almost considered as one of those countries where corruption is almost a normal way of working. We are talking about a phenomenon that puts us among the most at risk in Europe. When we talk about data on the perception of corruption, we are in sixty-ninth place, on equal merit with Ghana and Macedonia, for a progressive worsening of the perceived corruption in recent years. These are the data coming from Corruption Perceptions Index and having international relevance. We must also take into account the fact that corruption leads to a fundamental inefficiency of the whole system and of all services issued and intended for the community. The spread of corruption alters the same mechanism of competition, as it leads to the concentration of wealth in favour of those who accept and benefit from this type of bribe market. It is also possible to curb the technological progress of companies, which in some respects are encouraged to invest more in the bribe market rather than in innovation and research. We must also take into account all the economic costs arising from this type of mechanism: costs that are not only economic, but above all social. The economic costs have already been assessed by the Court of Auditors in several billion euros, such as the creeping and extraordinary increase affecting the same costs as the major works. But we must also take into account all the costs that our community suffers as a result: delays in the definition of administrative practices, poor functioning of public apparatuses, inadequacy, if not useless, of public works and, last but not least, a total loss of competitiveness and a brake on the same growth of the country. And we must think that this mechanism comes with criteria that may not be measurable, which affect the fundamental values of the very nature of our democratic order. I am referring to the transparency of the mechanisms, the very trust of the institutions, the functioning of public institutions and the confidence of all of us in the legality and impartiality of public apparatus. But in the face of all this set of mechanisms related to corruption, we have a minimum number of convictions in Italy for corruption. It is thought that the so-called white collars held represent only 0.4% of the prison population, compared to a European average that is even ten times higher. We must bear in mind that, at present, there are fewer than ten people in prison for corruption in Italy. We must think that, with respect to the mechanism of corruption itself, there is almost nostalgia - let me say the word - for the old "bribes" which, in some ways, were a naive body of crime. Today corruption has much more structured and complex mechanisms, such as when you see that, at some point, the thief is left with the same key as the safe: I am quoting a pen from the "Corriere della Sera" that made this engraved. At present, we are dealing with a draft law drawn up in an almost imprecise way: various draft laws which overlap; amendments by the Government; suspension of the Commission's work pending an amendment by the Government and the famous fake in the budget. Then comes the Government's proposal on fake in the budget that introduces a threshold of criminality, proposal that, with great horror and great scandal, is withdrawn and then re-submitted. At present, in the Commission, we are at the ironic - if not comical - stage of the last sitting in which we spoke about the subject: in practice, we cannot vote on an amendment because it refers to a legal text which has not yet entered into force. This is a great embarrassment, not for this House or for the Commission, but for all Italians. When you go to analyze a subject like this, which is very complex, you get to make mistakes that almost lead to naivety. And, therefore, in the end - as my colleague, Senator Divina, said before - there is a great prosopopea around the anti-corruption argument, and who knows what we will have. Now we will eternally fight corruption in Italy with increases in punishment that probably will not even have any effect on criminals. We are talking about a misdemeanor in the budget which, as drafted, does not understand whether it will ultimately punish those who will actually falsify their budgets. We now come to the question: will this measure serve to combat corruption? Or was it necessary to analyse the situation and begin to make serious regulations? It is time for this Parliament and this Government to support serious legislative initiatives and not always follow the wave of media emotion. As my colleague has already said, if we read in the newspapers of a resounding bribe, then we talk about anti-corruption; there are episodes of harassment and we talk - as we did at the time - about stalking; there comes a highlight and then we all talk about it and empty the prisons, but then we realize that we have emptied them too much and so we go to aggravate the pain elsewhere. Here we are at the level of ridicule. Corruption must be fought not only with a mere increase in penalties. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It must not be fought simply by creating a great emphasis on Renzian measures. I repeat: there is a great emphasis and we are talking about reforms, huge reforms. This is not a reform that can affect corruption. Corruption must be tackled with much more careful and careful mechanisms. We must go and influence all the mechanisms that eventually lead to corruption. It is necessary to rethink some of the structures of all procurement in project financing and the various systems of commissioning. We need to rethink all the special laws that are adopted to deal with certain issues, including public works. Gentlemen, public work is, in itself, a great resource, and it is especially so in a country in economic crisis. Public work has always been a flywheel, because it should bring work: work to businesses, work to many, the possibility of having liquidity. And it should not create mechanisms that eventually lead to cost increases and induce people within the system to become corrupt and corrupt. We are, in the end, critical of this system, of this mechanism, of this rule of law, even if, of course, it involves a slight improvement in the current situation, certainly providing for significant increases in punishment. And we, as a Group of the North League, consistently, and unlike this majority, since we have been here we have always argued no to decriminalization, yes to rigor and true, certain and effective penalties. So we too, in line with this measure, say yes to the increase in the penalty and to the forecast of the crime of fraud in the budget, which is certainly stricter than the current one. Let us add, however, that, as always, there is never the courage - I repeat never - to take definitive measures. When we were talking about corruption, there was the possibility - this was the opportunity - of really doing a review, considering a little 'everything about the system and creating practically a culture of anti-corruption. It is not the mere crime itself, with the forecast of an increase in punishment, which discourages the criminal to commit the crime. I do not know, in the end, where it will affect the crime of fake in the budget or it will happen, as always in Italy, that in the end it will be hit by a condemnation of the small company, which has perhaps committed a material error in the budget, while the great evasions and big fakes in the budget will never come to light. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is, in fact, the mechanism that then works in Italy; in the end the one who pays is normally the one who does not have the power to react. On this measure we say: Let's think about it. We seriously think about what we are going to do about a real anti-corruption. This could only be a step, a useful piece, but that's not enough. We will have to return to the subject, we will have to revisit it and deepen it. But we had an opportunity and this Government and its majority lost it for the umpteenth time. Let's stop making proclamations and really start doing something serious. We at the North League are here. We did not want to obstruct, but we have tabled purely improving amendments to a legal text, which we believe can make sense. We have also proposed amendments in this House, some of them provocative in relation to certain increases in penalties, but only in order to contribute to the work. However, the approach taken is not the right one. We must finally be serious and responsible legislators. Each subject must be systematically examined and organised, without constantly intervening in commercials: this is the way to work. Now we are talking about the reform of justice. They continue to call them "reforms," but no one believes them anymore. The Italians do not believe that the reforms will really be approved: they are only electoral ads, advertising. Let's go back to serious people and start considering corruption as something really dangerous. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Airola. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u45	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u46	Madam President, I would like to begin by saying: 'Finally!' This bill has finally arrived in the Assembly. Let us all remember that ten months ago we could have started the debate that we are starting today, when at the end of May 2014, a few minutes from the vote on the amendments to the basic text, in the Justice Commission, the Government announced its will to intervene, with its own legislative measures, on anti-corruption legislation. From that May 2014 to today nothing has been produced, except a rule on the crime of autocycling, in another legislative provision, which certainly does not meet the expectations of the 5 Star Movement and, above all, of the majority of Italian citizens. So we are finally here and we can make our voice heard in a public debate about these measures. We agree and personally understand who says to be careful not to abuse criminal law, because that of corruption and the state of moral and civil degradation of most of the country, in its most important ganglia of power, is a problem that goes beyond a legislative intervention in the matter of criminal law. These are subjects that we all know: I am referring to the need for cultural growth, civic sense and the sense of collective good and to consider political and public positions not already as a destination for political careers, for the management of power and perhaps personal enrichment, but with a true spirit of service, for the country and for the citizens. It responds to the truth that it is not only increasing the penalties, putting additional limits and rightly penalising criminal conduct that we could be sure to defeat this problem. In fact, there are also other areas to consider: the school and the family and above all the example that each of us can give, in our own reality. I am also referring to the coherence and recovery of those values which - it has to be said - the Italian political parties have largely lost for many decades. Once again, the words that Enrico Berlinguer uttered more than 30 years ago resonate in his mind, when he made a ruthless analysis of what had already become political parties - now the situation can only be worse - that is, the formations provided for in the Constitution that had abdicated to their historical function of representing interests and the common good, even if from different ideological positions, to become instead of the congregations of power, of the broken struggles, of the Camarilles organized with the primary objective of the subsistence of their own machine of power. Unfortunately, we are verifying this in every area, also on the basis of the judicial report, which constantly reminds us that we live in a country where the perception of the level of corruption, according to the international rankings, is sixty-ninth place. This is not a question of subjective perception, of course, because we realize, as citizens, that we have already sunk into an area that sometimes makes us want to abandon our hopes of raising ourselves and even rediscovering the dignity of being Italian. All in all, however, we believe that outside of here there is a society that on average - we have to say - is slightly better than the political class expressed in recent years. We can say this and think for the feedback that each of us has when it relates to the reality that lives outside these buildings and also to the simple, almost funny, numerical calculation of the percentages of many political representatives. The last news about this is a few days ago: I am talking about a political group that is part of the majority, which has an incidence of people investigated, perhaps not condemned, or at least the subject of attention by the judiciary, which is about one third of the parliamentary representation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This, statistically and objectively, without intending to condemn or do the justiceists at all costs, is a symptom of the fact that sometimes - as someone said - there are indeed percentages of criminals in Parliament, or in any case of persons investigated or forced to face criminal charges, higher than the statistical average of the Italians. So, there's something wrong with representation. But these people say they've been voted, which is true. De Luca's case is emblematic and the Democratic Party will probably want to shield itself from the fact that his candidacy was successful despite his judicial vicissitudes. Therefore, the elaborate interpretation that will be made of the Severino law will be able to give space, once again, to positions of very high responsibility also for people who, while having all the right to prove their innocence, would be opportune not to be once again proposed for such important elective offices. In these cases the parties should take concrete action: they should not only think about laws, amendments, the increase in penalties and restrictions, but should set an example and defuse a circuit that is now perverse, as I said before and as someone far more authoritative than I have analyzed in the past. The question is, are we still in time? I think we still have time. We, once again, offer you our contribution as politicians not by profession, but who proudly represent a sensitivity in the country, which must be taken absolutely into account in the very interest of politics. Too bad! We could have made these speeches already in June 2014, before Mafia Capitale. Imagine how beautiful it was if, when the Roman facts came to light, Parliament and perhaps even the Government could say that they had already passed this bill and, therefore, those who had been discovered would have responded to the less grievous regulations provided for before; but from now on, those who had committed corruptive crimes would have been punished with sanctions, thanks to which, even with the discipline of the prescription being approved in the parliamentary branches, there would have been a reasonable hope of seeing the guilty, that is, those for whom a responsibility was established, and instead the innocent were acquitted. Think what a great opportunity they have lost, once again, the government and the majority that support it. Then we need courage. We are examining a draft law which, as the Commission has resigned, is certainly not what the 5 Star Movement would have wanted, but that is what we and we understand. It is in the democratic game of majorities and minorities. We cannot expect anything we say to be done, although fortunately, in the text we are discussing, some of the amendments made in the Commission by the 5 Star Movement have been transposed. It is worth remembering, for example, the amendment that provides that the secrecy of contracts and executions of contracts, which today are secreted, relating to the sphere of defence and security, cannot be opposed to DAC. The G8 of the Magdalene and the obstacles that the judiciary encountered at the time - for example - make us understand the importance and scope of this rule contained in the bill, which also provides for shareable parties, such as the substantial increase in penalties in the minimum and maximum for crimes against public administration and the adaptation of criminal sanctions for the crime referred to in Article 416-a (the Mafia association). There are many positive elements and others to a lesser extent and we will talk about them when we vote on the amendments. On the false in the budget, the government has made us sad, sometimes reaching almost paradoxical situations, with amendments that were sent to Parliament but that did not arrive, with advances in the press, comments and TV debates in which we spoke of nothing. And today we have a text that - in our view - needs to be improved, because it is important to finally re-introduce, after almost fifteen years, an effective criminality of what is considered the sentinel crime and which is then often the basis of corruptive phenomena. But courage is needed. There are few proposals that we will be discussing during the examination of the amendments, and I would like to explain only two of them, which I consider to be significant. The first concerns what the President of the Council, Renzi, called a necessity, namely the introduction of a kind of DASPO for corrupt politicians, thus putting the final word on the impossibility for these to hold public positions in the future. In this regard, we have tabled an amendment supplementing the existing provision, already contained in the penal code to Article 317- bis: not only are corrupt politicians permanently banned from candidacy and from taking on administrative roles, but there will no longer be the possibility of contracting for companies and corrupting companies. Then there is another element, which is being urged and which has often been urged by the President of the National Anti-Corruption Authority itself, as well as by other authoritative actors involved in the fight against corruption. It is an instrument that does not concern the penalties or the hard fist, but has an investigative nature and would be really useful and ask us all: the provocative agent or, alternatively, the infiltrated agent, that is, a police officer that should not be put in an indistinguishable, irrational and absolutely anarchist way to instigate the commission of crimes, but that within an idea coordinated with the prosecutors and, if it is the case, even with the DDA, verify and test the integrity of the public administrators. Today our country needs this: it needs to finally make it clear to those who are approaching politics and public positions that the party is over, that it is useless to want to make a career in politics in order to enrich and steal from citizens. We will have the opportunity to explain these amendments and we trust that the majority will accept these positive inputs of the 5 Star Movement, because we really believe that they can go in the interest of the country. This, unfortunately for us, could perhaps also indirectly benefit the government if it wanted to adopt them, but what's good for the country is good for us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u48	Madam President, I am one of the signatories to that bill No 19 at the first signature of the President, then Senator, Pietro Grasso, who has been mentioned many times today. They are therefore among those who, with particular anxiety - but I believe I am in the company of the vast majority of Italians and Italians - await this moment, that is, the moment when, within a more general reform of justice and interventions to make our country more just, an intervention against corruption will be approved. We know that we can reform as much as we want the individual aspects of public administration, of associated living, of the management of our country. But, if we do not free the ways, procedures, paths that accompany the lives of citizens and citizens in every action and every moment of the conduct of their existence in this country, from the encrustation of events, attitudes, ways, habits and mental attitudes impregnated with corruption, we will not succeed in turning this country like a sock, to make it more fair and attractive for foreign investments and more economically and socially fluid, effective and modern. These are all characteristics that we want our country to acquire, if we want to avoid entering a phase of decline and remain within the economically relevant countries, and - let me tell you - if we want to become part of those countries that, from the point of view of rights and justice, are among the leading States of Europe and the whole world. The draft law we are debating, which I hope we are going to amend in some parts of it and to approve, is certainly the result of a long and rugged path, which has had moments of real discussion on the substance and content; a productive discussion of results and positions more advanced than those of departure, but which has also recorded - this is undeniable - moments of stall and crisis, in which it was hostage to politics, discussions and mediations that seemed endless and endless. Fortunately, we are here today and, beyond the rugged path that this proposal has taken, we can discuss its merit. It is true that in this respect, compared with the draft law n. 19 and the general layout of our discussion, at the start of the process, this text is more streamlined from the point of view of the issues dealt with: some important issues such as recycling and self-recycling, confiscation of property and prescription, have been raised because they are addressed in other contexts. We have already had a very important debate on the crime of self-laundering and product legislation. On the prescription it was first remembered that the House has already arrived at the approval of a first text. And I join those who first stressed the need for that approved by the House to be the subject, in second reading to the Senate, of a careful evaluation of its effective effectiveness with respect to the important requirements that we have to ensure the effective persecution of the crimes and the possibility of actual and concrete prosecution of the convictions provided for by the law. Otherwise, that exercise of increased criminal sanctions is likely to end in itself. In the text at our examination we have certainly made an intervention to consolidate the penalty and aggravate the penalties. And we have done so on those crimes that we consider to be particularly worthy of condemnation, precisely because we realize that, in our country, they are the object of a vague perception, as if precisely the corruptive attitude is part of civil life and, therefore, is understood as not of particular social disvalue. Let us therefore welcome the strengthening of criminal sanctions. I remember the main ones: the offence of peculate is aggravated, in the maximum penalty, from ten years to ten years and six months; the concussion by act contrary to the duties of office passes, in the maximum penalty, from five to six years; the corruption own, that goes from four to eight years, becomes from six to ten years, and so also the corruption in judicial acts. 11:25 a.m. (JUDICE followed). It is important to stress the amendment we have made to Article 317 of the Criminal Code in relation to concussion: we have not tightened the sanctions, but we have included a very important element, which will make that article more effective, where we have included, among the possible perpetrators of a concussion crime, not only the public officer but also the public service officer. This is a long-awaited change, the subject of a long parliamentary debate, and not only in this legislature, which becomes all the more important at a time when the figures who carry out public tasks without being public officials, but in charge of a public service, from health workers to dealers of public goods (such as RAI or ENI), relate to the citizen and their power can carry out concussive behaviors. Again with reference to the tightening of sanctions, I would like to remind you of the tightening up of the crime of Mafia association referred to in article 416- bis of the penal code, according to which, according to the gravity of the association (simple membership, real organization, armed association or not) the penalties are greatly intensified: we pass from the maximum of twelve years, provided for by the first paragraph, to fifteen years; from the fourteenth years of the second paragraph until eighteen years, to reach the maximum of twenty-six years for those who direct an armed Mafia association. Having said that, it is clear that we cannot believe that the only action is to tighten criminal sanctions. In fact, we need to intervene on the question of the possibility of striking the author of a crime of sin, of corruption, of concussion even with respect to an unlawful profit. I therefore welcome the provision of Article 5, which deals with Article 444 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in particular as regards the application of the penalty at the request of the parties, i.e. the plea, makes the admissibility of the request conditional on the full return of the price or profit of the offence. In essence, the State, even for reasons of the overall economy of the procedure, agrees to access the measure of the plea, but only with regard to the persons available to return the full price of the profit of the crime. We will discuss this later when considering the amendments, but I think it would be important to extend the same possibility of making the measure subject to the return of the price or profit of the crime even to the conditional suspension of the sentence. This forecast is the subject of a specific amendment which we will be discussing at the time of amendment, but even then it would seem important to me to be able to intervene not only through heavier punishments from the point of view of the criminal penalty, therefore with an implicit deterrent effect in tightening up, but also in financial terms. Very important is also Article 6, in which it is expected that the prosecutor will inform of the prosecution, with reference to the offences in question (corruption, flaw, concussion and so on), the National Anti-corruption Authority. It is an institution for which there is a strong expectation not only of this House but also of Italian public opinion. It is therefore very important to give this additional possibility to the President of the National Anti-Corruption Authority, i.e. to be informed on time by the public prosecutor of the initiation of such proceedings. I would like to make one final comment on Articles 8, 9 and 10, which relate to fraud in the budget. I believe that the very long negotiation, even between different political forces, between Parliament and the Government, thus within Parliament and the Government, has produced an acceptable result. I believe, however, that some of the expressions contained in the text can and should be carefully evaluated by this House at an amending stage. I am referring to the use of words such as the adverb "consciously" or the adjective "relevant", used alongside the expression "material facts" which are likely to make criminal rules more indeterminate - and therefore weaker - and induce the magistrate to apply them to be in a situation of excessive discretion and interpretative uncertainty. Likewise, I do not think it will be possible on this occasion... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u49	Please finish the sentence, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u50	THE COURT (PD). We will have to resume that prediction which concerns the issue of intervention on foundations with respect to the correctness of their budgets and their presentation to the Prefect and the Regions. [[Applause from Senator Ginetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u52	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with two quotations, the first is by Cesare Beccaria: "Montesquieu stated that every punishment that does not arise from absolute necessity is tyrannical, but I would say that every act of authority of one man over another, for which there is no absolute necessity, is tyrannical." To come to the second citation, in calling for the rapid progress of this bill that we are examining: There is no data that can express the sadness of corruption. We all have a duty to do something. The person who spoke these sentences did something: a few days after saying them, he took 100,000 euros of bribe from an honest pastry chef who sells the delicacies of that region at Palermo airport. This is Roberto Helg, the great advocate of every battle against corruption, himself an anti-corruption guarantor for Confindustria, who in good company, at least from the point of view of institutional rank, has made conferences, prayers, appeals tearing out tears and heartbreak against corruption, just before taking that 100,000 euro bribe. Italy, however, also has people like Cesare Beccaria - who hasn't been with us for a long time - or like that pastry chef who had the courage to go and denounce (and indeed had some fear in doing so, given Mr. Helg's high-ranking friendships). Well, between Roberto Helg and Caesar Beccaria, I'm with Caesar Beccaria. It is true, however, that Caesar Beccaria's nephew is not nice to the President of the Council, so there is little to be quiet, because what he says is law, in this which yesterday, an authoritative exponent of the majority - I stress - called the "new theocracy renziana". He therefore wants to ban - rightly, from his point of view - the novel of the nephew of Caesar Beccaria, who was called Alessandro Manzoni, "The Promised Married." I understand that those who are in such a hurry, like the President-in-Office of the Council, cannot read a whole book of this kind, but the first chapter, the one in which we talk about those screams, which have become famous and known as Manzoni, even though Manzoni has the only advantage of having highlighted its heinousness. It was the cries of a corrupt government, which did a great harm to Italy in 1600 and which, in order to fight widespread crime phenomena, knew nothing more than to issue cries - today decrees or drafts of law - to make a figure and give a signal, as they say today (in 1600 they were less evolved from the point of view of fog and smoke in the eyes). In order to give a signal, a good cry was made, imposing penalties, however initially much more mild than those provided for in this bill. Then, in the face of the absolute ineffectiveness of these cries, we passed to another cry in which the previous one was repeated; often the laws do so, and also in this case we are doing so. Here we want to make some propaganda, both of the media and of many political leaders, who tell the absolute lie, or make it pass, according to which today there is no law against corruption. I would remind my colleagues - those who were in the last legislature and those who were not - that an anti-corruption law was passed at the end of 2012. Do we have to make a law every day? Every day thousands of thefts are reported in Italy: do we have to do not say thousands but hundreds of times a day a new law against theft? Certainly there are aspects on which to intervene, but the simple increase of the penalties, in addition to violating some principles, also has irrational profiles such for which there are crimes, in particular those concerning the association of mafia character, so a person who explicitly has not committed any specific crime, no crime, just because it belongs to a certain organization, with this bill can very well suffer heavier penalties than for the voluntary murder (not the manslaughter, over which the penalties are higher than several orders of magnitude). Well, you should have a slightly less "crying" attitude, a little less intended to give signals. I believe that we legislators - because we are - on this occasion more than usual (for once it is not a decree-law), we should be aimed at the same objective that all the workers of our country have. Those who make the pastry chef, like the one who was extorted by the great moralist of Palermo airport, must do well the pastries, his sweets. The lawyer must defend his clients well; those who are farmers must grow their products and those who make the laws must make good laws, and not give signals. When we go to buy food we don't want a signal to show, but that the food is good, healthy and nutritious. Similarly, when we go to the doctor we do not want signals and commercials, but that you visit us properly, that you make a diagnosis and give us effective care, and not cure to give a signal. We, who have a very high responsibility, if we give signals instead of making good laws will have the same results as the cries of the seventeenth century, those that the President of the Council no longer wants to be studied in schools, those of when crime prospered even more and some poor guy ended up in the middle, as always in the same book is told (but here we are around the twentieth chapter so that a hasty reader does not even think about getting to that point; I repeat, just read the first chapter, I do not ask for a great effort). At the same time as these norms, these screams, but then things are done completely at odds. That is why I have tabled two amendments, which may seem to be said to be outside the scope of this measure. But what is the problem of corruption? That someone makes money dishonestly (and this is a bad example): he gets money to do unjust things and to give priority to someone in turn. This is corruption: I pay some official or some politician to give me a job, and it is done through corruption. Then there are those who do not need corruption, because they are those to whom gifts are made by law. I refer to Article 5 of the so-called Italian decree, where without need - at least that is known - of passages of money, and above all without risking five, ten, twenty, thirty years in prison, and thirty-forty years of trial, work has been entrusted that gives rise not to revenues but to margins (this is the estimate made by authoritative experts of the sector) of 16 billion. This contradicts European norms, against the opinion expressly given by the Antitrust, the Bank of Italy, the Anti-corruption Authority (which in other sectors, when it suits, is taken as absolute truth), by the Transport Authority. All this with a profit of 16 billion euros in the long term. But every day this rule, already only because it came into force and, then, has been kindly extended with the decree milleproroghe (because the gentlemen to whom the gift was made had some difficulty in explaining in detail the plans through which it was necessary to make this gift), costs at least 2 million euros, which from the pockets of citizens and Italian companies end up in the pockets of people who have never won a tender. Do we fight illegal gain and inequality? That's right, but let's fight them all. It is useless for the government to promote or support rules that give five, ten or who knows how many years in prison to those who take (and do not have to do so, because it is very serious that it does) a gift of 100 euros and then, however, make one of 16 billion. Indeed, you save 100 euros many times, taking them back to the honest Italian citizens who pay, and giving them to someone else. I have also tabled a proposal against the abuse of the State against its citizens. A key way to fight corruption is to eliminate the circumstances in which the temptation of corruption arises, reducing bureaucracy, reducing the hundred, thousand stamps, authorizations, harassment, arbitrary controls provided for, in order to reduce the occasions when officials - and, in some cases, politicians - can condition their authorisation and stamp to some pleasure they receive. Unfortunately, this government increases the bureaucratic burden. The anti-corruption law - not this one, the previous one still in force - still increases them and, thus, gives the State the means to vex citizens. Citizens see the state as an enemy. It is right that those who carry out a traffic violation, for example, pay, but it is also right that once they have paid, they should not, ten or twenty times, be asked to repay; or, again, it is right that they should not ask to pay taxes to those who paid them and, perhaps, counting on the fact that they were small sums, did so without going to check in fear of receiving further sanctions. We must also punish officials who behave in this way, who abuse citizens and who extort money from the citizens they have already paid. Otherwise, as one colleague said, the state behaves like a criminal and there is little to be surprised if, then, someone does not trust the state. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u53	Senator Taverna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after twenty-five years nothing has changed. It was February 17, 1992 and the Italians discovered from the news - a bit like we have discovered from the transmission "Porta a Porta" of the resignation of Minister Lupi - that the system of public works was based on a sophisticated and consolidated criminal system, which fed on the bribes and rising costs. They discovered that this system benefited politicians and parties of all colors. The next April elections were marked by abstention, the one you still target today. The investigation went on and in the months it rained warranty notices. In 1993 the Government will issue a decree-law - the Conso decree - which decriminalized the illicit financing of parties on a retroactive basis, thus including also the facts of clean Hands. Public opinion and the newspapers shouted at the scandal and the president of the Republic Oscar Luigi Scalfaro for the first time in republican history refused to sign a decree-law, considering it unconstitutional, which perhaps some other President should have had the courage to do but did not do. In 1994, the Biondi decree, also known as "save thieves," replaced custody with house arrests for corruption crimes. At the end of the trial many defendants were acquitted, although they committed the fact, because in the meantime the judicial reforms put in place by the Olive tree had rendered invalid some of the evidence acquired and, in many cases, favored the arrival of the prescription. The then prosecutor of Palermo, Giancarlo Caselli, declared that Parliament had repealed the mob by law. The transition to the Second Republic did not lead to a change of bad habits and systematically the Italian legislator, without any modesty, gave birth to laws that disattend and injure the Constitution, criminal laws, written ad hoc to create free zones of legality. That criminal germ, which seemed to have been eradicated by the judiciary, continued to spread by feeding on complicit legislation. The investigation that in these days is leading the prosecutor of Florence is nothing more than the result of inertia or, worse still, of the complicity of the State with respect to the facts of corruption and mafia that had come to light in those years. It was a state that allowed public managers and administrators to increase the cost of procurement, a legalized and colossal theft, designed and carried out, now and then, by politicians, officials and senior executives, entrepreneurs and directors of participating companies. Nothing really changed. In order to feed this system, in fact, the so-called participating companies have been created, which are the legal instrument through which individuals and administrators steal money from citizens. Unfortunately, I am addressing an empty House, as is the case in most cases where very important measures are being discussed. The money that this political class has allowed to be stolen through corruption, connivance and collusion is money that Italians struggle today, again, to put into play in a state that daily disregards all the real needs of the country in order to continue to enrich always and only the usual. However, we see ourselves subtracting billions of euros and we cannot do anything because this system has been legalized. I explain: after the judiciary had exposed a pit of waste of public money and the corruptive system put in place by that political class, the subsequent political classes thought well to make laws and decrees-laws that say that public administrators can entrust public works contracts as they want. They are laws, I repeat, criminals because they allow public officials to do what they want with public money. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Everything's regular. It is no longer possible to proceed even for abuse of office documents. They're illegitimate laws. That's how much worse a legislator can do. I wonder one thing: we have approved civil liability for judges, why do we not approve civil liability for the legislator? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Why is there this bubble of impunity for the laws that come out of Parliament, from this and from the precedents, which have been declared unconstitutional? You know better than I that these laws should never have had legal effect; they should not have existed. Those laws have caused important effects. I see Giovanardi and I think of the so-called Fini-Giovanardi law and the people who have been in jail for a law that should never have existed. How do we justify this to the people who, on the other hand, have been affected by that law and have paid for it? How do we justify that for years you sent us to vote with a law that shouldn't have existed? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have been in Parliament for two years and we see how it works: each Commission is responsible for its own matters. There are only two Commissions who must give their opinion on all the measures that go by on time: one is the Budget Commission, which must ensure coverage, and the other is the Constitutional Affairs Commission, which must ensure that the measure presents constitutional profiles. I want the citizens to read who the Commission's commissioners were who gave a positive opinion on laws that cost us 50 billion today, such as fiscal compact. Today you tell us that you can't find 16 billion cover for your citizenship income? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Tell the Italians how you find 50 billion a year for 20 years to pay for the fiscal compact! Tell him that! Do not ask us how we can find the money (and we have found it) to guarantee dignity and freedom to people. Tell us why you forced us to pay 50 billion that put us on the pavement. Think about what is written in the Italian Criminal Law Treaty by Manzini. In the meantime, in fact, I study, because to fight you you need to know well. The most annoying thing is that you know the laws well and that, instead, to apply them to the benefit of this country, you use them to fool citizens! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's what makes me sickest in here! You're not ignorant! Ignorance is perhaps also justifiable in some people, but you are educated, intelligent. You know the laws and, each time, apply them to the detriment of people. In conclusion, seven hundred and forty days since the Grasso bill was presented, we are finally here in this House to discuss it. We have the responsibility, the moral duty to give the country a good anti-corruption law that is worthy of this name and restores dignity to this country. Because to fight corruption it is not enough to change ministers and leaders, we need to change the laws. Demolish all still existing criminal legislation and prevent such events from happening again for the future. Parliament, the Government and all those who are part of it must be an example and commit themselves to spreading the culture of legality. I would ask you just one more second, Mr President, because I want to read to the Italians how these Commissioners intend to combat corruption. It is an amendment by Senator Barani that reads as follows: "Any person committing any of the offences referred to in Article 1 above shall be punished by shooting, to be carried out publicly in the main square of the city where the court responsible for the territory has its seat. The penalty referred to in the preceding subparagraph may not entail the death penalty. I hope that the Italians will take you seriously and this amendment will apply it regardless of whether you consider it appropriate. Honestly, if you do not really approve an anti-corruption law, I do not know how the Italians will react to your interference in the life of a people that is suffering. There are people who really kill themselves and, therefore, these scumbags avoid writing them! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u55	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Pope Francis said last Saturday in Scampia that corruption stinks. He urged the Neapolitans to rebel against the Camorra and told them that the bread earned with the money of illicit origin is a dirty bread. Sergio Mattarella, when swearing as President of the Republic, said that the fight against mafias and corruption is a top priority; he said so, in front of almost all of us, gathered in the Chamber of Deputies' hemicycle: absolute priority. Don Luigi Ciotti, last Saturday, in front of 200,000 people in Bologna, shouted that against corruption - which is the other side of the mob - there can be no room for negotiation, undue regard and excessive prudence. So, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are going to examine is nothing more than a due act. Not a discretionary step, but a necessity, a duty. Is this an ethical duty? No, colleagues, I have never been a moralist and I think that ethics - within certain limits - is more about the internal forum than the public forum. For the inner hole there is consciousness; for the external one there are laws. The fight against corruption, the serious one, made of concrete and verifiable actions, is instead an economic necessity, because when the Pope says "dirty bread" he says that the economy is ruined by corruption; this tarpa le wings to competition, inventiveness, enterprise and work. Where there is no corruption, the economy thrives. The legality is perhaps not good for everyone, but it is good for everyone. Let us then come to this measure, for which I shall vote but not with the enthusiasm I was hoping for. The penalties for many crimes against the public administration are increased: the peculate, improper corruption, the one of its own and the one in judicial acts. The scope of the concussion is extended and the penalties for the Mafia association are increased. Then there are two very significant procedural provisions. The first is that which subordinates the plea in cases of corruption to the full return of the price or profit of the crime. The second provides that the TAR, when it judges contracts and discovers elements of anomaly in the procedural papers, transmits those news to the Anti-corruption Authority. This is a provision that fits into the wake of a legislative amendment, which had already intervened in the so-called Decree-Law Madia last May, by virtue of which that information was due to the same Authority by the Billing of the State. All right, then? Unfortunately, no. Those who don Ciotti has invited us not to do, those unfair negotiations, have been conducted in part. Those shynesses and indecent concerns have unfortunately been partially used towards those who are not insensitive to the opacity, grayness and ambiguity of those who cannot separate themselves from the evil and swamp experienced of sometimes unspeakable relationships. I am talking about the fake proposal in the budget, which is insufficient. Announcement that I reserve the right to speak in an explanation of vote on my amendments 8,311 and 10,312. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u57	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u58	Mr President, it certainly comes to this House at a time when there could no longer be any debate in Italy. Indeed - this should be remembered from the start - we do not get there because it has been scheduled as a forecast, but because, after the last serious events and arrests that have followed in the past weeks, obviously the usual Italian race has been born to grab the credit of those who can solve the problem as quickly as possible. I must also agree with a few previous speeches. Too often, unfortunately, the legislator - in this case the Government - does not act because of the real resolution of problems, but in giving media satisfaction to what can be a solution to the problem, a sort of panacea, a sort of: "we find a solution, we give a reassuring signal to the citizens, which allows us to say that we have addressed the problem and that we are not people who waste time". Mr President (I am pleased, among other things, that in the meantime the Minister has also arrived), today we must not make the mistake that is often made in Italy and that happens on the occasion of every dramatic circumstance: there is a flood and a law is made immediately to remedy the hydrogeological failure; there is a serious road accident with a pirate of the road that runs away and here comes back immediately the theme of road murder. This is also the case when there are draft laws - we have presented them ourselves in previous years - which have been in Parliament for a long time and which have not been carried out because, of course, the government does not give priority to these kinds of measures. A woman is killed and a feminicide order is made immediately; a serious crime is committed against minors and here is what is done about minors. This is not a way of working mature in terms of either solution or message for citizens. It is obvious that the problem exists, because the problem of corruption has always existed in this country and, unfortunately, with circumstances that each time demonstrate the inability of the system to amend itself. But I would ask myself a question, which I must of course ask the Minister. Mr Minister, first of all, have you asked yourself what is the reason why these elements of corruption can be created? In fact, there can of course be a tenuity of the penalty: there is no penalty and, therefore, it is clear that those who steal do so because they know very well that so much is not condemned to anything. However, there may also be circumstances for which it has been underestimated - let me make an assessment here - that the politician and the official are not different people; often and willingly the two figures correspond, even in terms of relationship. Or worse, it is certainly not said that the politician is corrupt and the official is honest by definition. This is what has happened in Italy since the beginning of the 1990s, since the distinction between political and administrative responsibility was made: a large part of the undergrowth that generated politics feeds on corruption. It is a corruption that does not go under the spotlight, as happens for those who are exposed to popular judgment, but that has led the system to bend to customs that, from this point of view, make us really a Third World country. I should like to explain: Minister, it is obvious that if one legislation overlaps with another every time, there are such stratifications that the figure of the official, or of the bureaucrat - let us call it this - becomes more and more indispensable in order to resolve the problems: in any case, in any case, we must die there. The politician - whether he be mayor or another elected one - leaves at the end of his term, but the official and the manager remain. If we have to talk about reform, let us go even further and talk about reform of the public administration: this is where we have to consider these aspects. Today there is action on criminal law, proposing to put a fine penalty. It is frankly ridiculous what we heard just now: someone could avoid certain colors and proposals such as those we have heard. The sanctions must be strong, serious and severe and the state must enforce them. You do not have to decriminalize and you know very well what I mean: in the coming days, on April 2, the decrees of decriminalization will enter into force. Minister, this will create a further gap between citizens and the State. The citizen who today is robbed in the house and the next day sees the thief go out on the street and then sees the corrupt and the corrupter who get away with it, not only has the feeling, but is certain that the State does not protect him, as a citizen who works and pays taxes. This is exactly what needs to be avoided. Returning to the argument on corruption, it is natural that the regulatory path should be simplified, but this must go in the sense of simplifying the management of a contract or the use of a right. If a citizen turns to the municipality for the assignment of a popular home, he must not go to ask permission from an official or go to the politician saying: Give me a house of 5 square meters larger, that maybe at Christmas I give you a basket of fruit, because in this way you carry a level of corruption, that arrives, amplified, up to the great works. Honestly, this also gives the opportunity to those who do not understand anything about it to bring us back almost to the Stone Age, saying that works, roads, aqueducts or infrastructure must no longer be carried out, because they generate corruption. The problem, however, is not the works, but the rules that in the meantime have been encrusted around them and that make it possible for these parasites to feed themselves. It is precisely on this point that we must act. I repeat: the first question is not to continue with the history of decriminalization, and then have to chase the problems the next day, increasing the penalties, because in the meantime someone has been caught and we have to give strong examples, demonstrating that the State fights corruption. The penis must be certain, serious and should not be altered anymore. Secondly, an administrative procedure that protects citizens cannot be complicated. The procedures must be simplified and the path to obtaining and enjoying a right must be straight. If a company wants to work, it is valid, it participates in a tender and makes a good offer it must have the right to win the award of a contract. Mr Minister, we must also consider the whole issue of the unforeseen situation in progress, the review of prices and all that concerns shipyards. These are all things to be considered. If you do not think of a revision of these aspects, simplifying them, there will always be a corrupt official, a corrupt bureaucrat or a chamber of commerce president, who will come to say: I couldn't pay my debts at the end of the month. What could I have done if I didn't steal? We have come to these paradoxes. Now, it is clear that we do not expect from the government a spot response because if we are to make a list of examples of corruption, unfortunately we lose the measure, and we are not just starting from the great works. A short time ago, the extension of the motorway concessions was mentioned. What are you doing? You are creating really dangerous conditions in which small spins of money such as those that are discovered in these hours (even bags of 2,000 euros), but turns that will pass directly over the heads of citizens and the State, on one side, moving large capital and going further to slap all those entrepreneurs, citizens and honest workers who, paying taxes, will not see respected their rights. I am thinking of everything that has happened in Rome, Minister: are we already forgetting all the hidden corruption that has come out? Newspapers don't talk about it and there's nothing left? What about the whole MOSE system? There are endless examples of corruption and this must make you reflect, in some way, on the reasons for such choices. Do we expect a very high penalty and think we have no more corruption? I doubt that because if the state is not serious and does not respect the lower penalties, even when an apartment theft occurs, let alone what happens in these cases. It has been correctly said before: there will be an inequality whereby for a murder a lighter penalty will be provided than a crime of appropriation of public money. These are paradoxes. It is clear that all this gives the idea of a system that acts in a schizophrenic way, not in an organized way. I am thinking, Minister, of European funds. I am tired of turning on television in the evening, or opening the newspapers and seeing examples of works done simply because we did not know how to use the resources that were ultimately spent because otherwise the European Union would have demanded them back. Do you think there is no corruption in this case? Do you not think there is a complacent director who perhaps also claims to have finished the work when the work is not even standing? This can happen because there is no system for protecting citizens. This measure is being enacted today. No one escapes the media gorgo. There are anti-corruption professionals who now, of course, strut, there are those who look at the technical-legal aspects, distinguishing between corrupt and corruptor, between an extra fraction and less. That's not what we're interested in. We are interested in the certainty that in the future depenalizations do not give further opportunities to thieves in public affairs to get away with it and, above all, that citizens know that the state provides for simple and easy procedures. Do not invent hot water, go and see in other European countries. For example, just a few kilometers away from where I live, just cross the border and go to Switzerland to see that the State finances public works that do not undo, respects citizens who pay taxes. There are examples of good administration where the works begin and end in the time set by contract: with these examples you have to compare. Then I understand that there is more interest, perhaps, in doing subdiction operations like the ones I'm seeing. (Senator Sollo approaches the benches of the government.) Senator Sollo, good morning. Talk to the Minister as we speak. This is also a moment of digression, so it is right to take advantage of it. We're talking about serious things, we're not just talking about it, even if maybe someone just does it to waste time. We like to believe that there is a government that listens to our advice, perhaps even considering the experiences - and here there are different from all sides - of administrators who have tried starting from the municipality, perhaps trying to confront a small contract, and who know how difficult it is to deal with bureaucracy. If you do not start from these aspects and think of solving the issue simply with a criminal adjustment will be yet another disappointment, unfortunately, and the Italians will continue to have a corrupt system that will not produce works and that will waste money. That, Minister, would be the worst mistake at a time when you really want to make a breakthrough. Really do this and reform public administration from the straight lines and precision of procurement and procurement management. And then, for God's sake, the officials and the great leaders take them out of their seats and turn them around. An administration that doesn't return the air is like a house where windows never open. The area gets stale and people get sick: it doesn't work. A stale system inevitably leads to disease. That's what's going on these days. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u59	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Minister, thank you for your presence. There is no doubt that the fight against corruption must be a priority in our country. I would certainly like to make a non-technical contribution, because I am a graduate in economics and commerce and not in law, to this idea. First of all, let me make an observation. In November 2012, Parliament, almost unanimously, passed an anti-corruption law. We were elected in February 2013 and in March our current President, then Senator Grasso, presented an anti-corruption law, because the one we had approved three months before was not good. That's the situation. I repeat, I am not a lawyer, but I have experience of life and I can say that the most severe pains in the world do not frighten the criminals, nor the organized crime: this is the objective and historical truth. I think that if we want to eliminate corruption, we must worry about the laws to punish those who commit crimes, but we must also put in place preventive action. I think the first thing to do, then, is to simplify and streamline our state. To tell the truth, I had appreciated in this sense the statements of the President of the Council Renzi, because he had said that the State must be leaner, simpler, with fewer stamps, fewer authorizations and simpler procedures. I have many comments to make to this Government, but one of the main ones is that it has not only not reduced public spending, but has in no way simplified the rules on protection. We must know that every time we expect a stamp, an authorization, a passage, we submit the citizen to complicated rules that scare foreigners who would like to come to invest in Italy, that affect the quality of life of our fellow citizens, but above all create the conditions for someone, to speed up a certain procedure, to ask for the so-called bribe, that can also become something much more substantial, as we well know. Let us simplify procedures, then, please, because only by reducing bureaucratic steps, which are real and heavy, to two or three, will we really be able to fight corruption. In conclusion, I would like to focus on a sector of activity which has risen sharply to the honour - or rather, I should say, to the dishonor - of the chronicles in these days and which, in any case, represents a substantial part of corruption: public works. To do this, I want to give a very concrete example: two very democratic and very environmentally friendly European countries, Denmark and Sweden, decided at the end of the twentieth century to connect through a bridge that united Copenhagen with Malmö. This bridge began to be discussed concretely in order to try to design and realize it in 1988. There have been several passages, various discussions with Finland; if you consult Wikipedia you will easily find the whole story. The invitation to tender was launched and awarded in December 1994, when it was established that a particular company would build that bridge which, as you know, has a double track for both cars and rail. The bridge was inaugurated by the royals of Sweden and Denmark in July 2000. Then, Minister, tell your President Renzi, who is now Minister for interim infrastructure, to copy the laws of Denmark and Sweden, that is, of two hyperdemocratic and hyper-environmentalist countries; let us copy those rules. Why from them the realization of the work lasts five years and from us every TAR, every Municipality, each, can stop it at any time? Let's do these rules and try to make our country modern. If the country is modern, if it has simple laws, if it has clear laws that do not foresee endless passages, we will be more dynamic, we will spend less, corruption will be much less and criminals will have less chance of setting up organizations that yield absolutely illicit capital. [[Applause from Senators Liuzzi and Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u61	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u62	Mr President, I think I can say that the text proposed by the Justice Commission and the Government is an expression of a clear political will to combat corruption and economic crime, which detracts from the legality and potential of growth in our country. In this direction, and after the Severino law of 2012, we have chosen to strengthen the repressive function of crimes against public administration and the crime of Mafia association under Article 416-a, with the tightening of penalties, while aware that the raising of penalties in the fight against corruption does not perform its own function of deterrent if the principle of reasonableness, graduality and proportionality, in relation to the social gravity, even perceived, of the crime, is not respected at the same time. The new rules on prescription approved by the House are a further fundamental component, for crimes that tend to prescind in the preliminary investigation phase. There is no doubt, however, that the real persecubility of these crimes will continue to depend on the organisational efficiency of justice, in a context in which the delays of investigations and the excessive length of the processes risk becoming ways of impunity and absolution. The bill, moreover, with the reduction of penalty for those who have the strength to denounce such corruptive practices strengthens the possibility of collaboration in the investigations for the emergence of the phenomenon. It is also extended to the public service officer the offence of concussion, certainly widespread also in the areas of external management of public services, while the PM is obliged to inform the National Anti-corruption Authority the start of investigations for such types of crime. Already the law Severino had delivered to our law a tool to contrast to the corruption for the prevention of the risk, with the responsibility of the control and the verification of the conducts of the civil servants, with the incompatibility of the accumulation of assignments, with the patrimonial transparency; package that moreover has been extended also to the professional orders, in the conviction that the action of contrast must involve the entire relational system public-private-professional. In the reports of the OECD, the European Union and the World Bank, corruption, in its various ways of manifesting itself, is represented as a serious threat to the primacy of law, democracy, social justice; it prevents economic development, strengthens territorial imbalances and social inequalities, pollutes competition, conditioning competitiveness and the clean economy. In Italy, even before the scandals of the MOSE, the Expo, Mafia Capitale and today the TAV of Florence, the perception of the phenomenon also makes it appear as a rampant practice that conditions the regular and timely development of public administrative management, a quasi rule of relation and power between the public sphere and the private induced or complacent in dissolving what are the guarantees of democracy of the entire system of law. The continuation of the crisis also paves the way for a favourable environment, in a sort of vicious circle, as the President of the Court of Auditors pointed out. Black funds, tax evasion, bribes for corruption represent one-chain links. For this reason, in the area of combating economic crime, we must place as fundamental principles, alongside repression, the obligation to transparency in accounting and that of financial flows. The European Commission has calculated that corruption costs EUR 120 billion per year, a little less than the entire annual budget of the European Union, and has shown that the most exposed sectors are public procurement, health and concessions for urban works. A reflection must therefore be initiated on the same scope as our 2001 objective law, as well as on the procurement code, which contrasts with a kind of money centrifuge, ranging from waste management to the provision of social services, to large and small contracts, to sport. In this direction go the most recent Italian laws, the plan against the mafias, the rules on simplification and development, respectively for the control of the financial flows of public contracts and the use of electronic administration. After the approval, in this legislature, of the new case of self-recycling and with the extension of the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange, today, the new discipline of fake in the budget, as a crime of concrete danger, with the elimination of the thresholds of non-criminality and the persecubility of office, except the new case for small facts and the non punishableness for the duration of the damage, delivers an additional instrument, after the substantial decriminalization carried out with the reform of 2002. Corruption in Italy costs 60 billion, 4% of gross domestic product, plus the 16 billion missing capital investments from abroad due to what Ignazio Visco called reputation deficit from corruption. A Slav that since 1992, from Tangentopoli, continues to dirty and muddy our country and those who work honestly every day in legality. A phenomenon that cannot and must not represent us in the eyes of the rest of the world, which still looks at us as the country of beauty, creativity and ingenuity. The rule of law is not only the state subject to rules, it is also the government of honorable politicians, of deserving officials able to ensure effectiveness and economicity of the management and integrity of public administration, and hence also able to carry out an educational function. Corruption, therefore, before being a criminal offence is a cultural manifestation of coexistence and civil and social relationship, because the laws must be made, but also respected and above all well implemented. From this fundamental point of view, it is the reform of the public administration, which guarantees evaluation of the merit for achieved objectives, rotation of managerial positions and dismissal for waste and inefficiencies. Well then the new anti-corruption decalogue also for the participants. The credibility of national public institutions as premises, the confidence in the proper functioning of the democratic order must be restored through a more widespread culture of public ethics, procedural and regulatory simplification, which recovers the constitutional dictation of Article 97 of impartiality and good performance, which for the constituent Fathers alone could represent the beacon of evaluation of the good management of the public good. In fact, it is not only criminal corruption that constitutes an unbearable cost, but also bad administration, waste and inefficiencies. This is the challenge of a modern and current fight against corruption in a democratic and just country that wants to start economic and social recovery: a moral code, even before criminal law. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u63	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u64	Mr President, I am sorry to speak in this empty Chamber, but it means that the sacredness of this House will take the place of the absence of so many beautiful people. On 20 March 1994 in Mogadishu, Somalia, journalist Ilaria Alpi and operator Miran Hrovatin were killed, sent by Rai3 to investigate alleged toxic waste trafficking from Europe to the Horn of Africa. A few days ago, the 21st anniversary of their death passed in absolute silence by the institutions and the press. Here's what happened: the Alps had probably discovered the threads of a network that involved, within the so-called Uranus 1 program, a whole series of characters related to politics, the army, the secret services, the mafia organizations and arms traffickers. But what does Ilaria Alpi have to do with the bill under discussion today? It has a lot to do with it, and I explain it to you with a section of administration of the territory, to make it clear to the House - which is unfortunately empty - and especially to those who follow us from outside how fearful the action of the governments of recent years on corruption, which is no longer such, but which, as the prosecutor Scarpinato has called it, is even more a mafia with a new face, which coincides with the State, and an agency that offers goods and services and erodes democracy, honest entrepreneurship and quality of works and services. All this fearsome action of recent years has affected the concrete life and health of citizens, who must understand it: it is not something far away, but that affects their lives and those of their families and their children. The book "1994" by Luigi Grimaldi and Luciano Scalettari tells a lot about the story. In some passages, Roberto Ruppen appears as one of the puppeteers of the so-called project Uranus 1. Investigated in Palmi for arms trafficking with Licio Gelli and Francesco Patienza, he is above all one of the managers of Publitalia 80, commissioned by Marcello Dell'Utri to transform Berlusconi's holding company into a party. What is Uranus 1? One of the most colossal waste disposal projects. Ruppen himself seems to have hired a consultant from Snam, Gian Mario Baruchello (remember this name). The latter over the years does not disappear, despite everything, and becomes the protagonist of the design and approval of dozens of plants related to the world of waste, as well as one of the major consultants of Manlio Cerroni, the famous "king of the monnezza" Lazio, that in January 2014 is arrested, along with other his trusted men. Many beautiful people, perhaps many of you know, are handcuffed, including regional managers and landfill managers and waste treatment plants, such as the regional managers Luca Fegatelli and Raniero De Filippis; Francesco Rando, manager of the Pontina ambiente and E. Giovi Srl; also Bruno Landi, former president of the Lazio Region and managing director of the company that has managed for years the famous landfill of Borgo Montello, which is so damaging to the health of the citizens, then passed to Green Holding of which they have all been arrested; then there are Pino Sicignano, director of the landfill of Albano Laziale, and Piero Giovi. Cerroni makes use of Baruchello's advice for his technical expertise: in fact, to name a few, on 24 July 2009 he signs a technical opinion on the water supply of the Albano incinerator, defending the process of cooling the eco-monster; in October 2010 he prepares a technical superperizia on the landfill of Roncigliano (Albano Laziale), which gave the Latium Region the possibility to ditch for 9 meters - so above what is allowed - on fourth and fifth invaded already tombed, waiting for the realization of the seventh invader (we are therefore talking about heavy situations for the inhabitants); he designed some invaders of Borgo Montello; he designed the biogas plant of Pomezia and today enters into the merit of another central, that of Velletri (just to mention those in the area of the Castelli Romani). Since December 2014, Baruchello - the famous manager of Urano I - has been investigated following the middle ground operation, which sees him involved in Mafia Capitale, accused of aggravated corruption, auction disturbance and illegal financing: a nice resume, as many administrators like. In Cerroni's story, another character, the engineer Guidobaldi, who of the biogas plant in Velletri mentioned, is a designer, as well as the seventh invader of the aforementioned landfill in Roncigliano, is also taken by a warranty notice. This invasion is now running out, although it had to contain the waste of the Roman Castles until 2020 and already at the time of its conception it had several irregularities (compared to the distance of the scenes from the road and the town, as well as the landscape and archaeological constraints). It is thanks to these good people, who, despite this resume, never disappear, that today the Roncigliano landfill is an ecological bomb that puts serious risk to the health of citizens, as certified by a technical report of the ARPA of October 2014. But this is not the end; these are the past filthy things. In addition to the biogas plant, which falls at the head of the municipalized Volsca, always in the territory of Velletri and always thanks to these beautiful individuals, who never leave because you allow him to stay, there is also a mega landfill of two million cubic meters (we are talking about wonderful agricultural land, fantastic, which have a wonderful agriculture) headed by Ecoparco Srl, which should arise on the ground of a relative of the regional councilor of Fratelli d'Italia, Giancarlo Righini, sentenced in the first degree (also a beautiful curriculum) to 4 years for association with delinquere aimed at the disturbance of the auction. I know it's a long list, but I want you to know how deeply these characters plant their roots and never leave. Righini, today, together with the city council member to the environment of the Lazio Region, Michele Civita of PD (therefore, a beautiful communion of intent), not investigated but ended up in several telephone intercepts that leave suspicions of unclear relationships with Cerroni, is said to be contrary to the big hole; they play the part and on this plant the Lazio Region has recently requested integrations and clarifications to the Municipality of Velletri, which however fails to comply, because obviously with all these nefariousnesses it is difficult then to answer serious questions. The municipality has set up a splendid, but useless, Special Commission with advisory powers. Guess who the city administrators are calling to audition for this beautiful project? Baruchello and Guidobaldi: then, from Uranus 1 to Velletri 1 to continue to do what they have always done (and I'm not telling you what). As the citizens of the Castles get sick from the garbage, they die because of bad politics and bad administration, these people are summoned inside collegial and institutional seats where they are listened with such attention and before them they take off their hat. Well, I have been in these institutional fora: all the counselors on the right and left hung from the lips of these characters, and when it was the moment that, by institutional courtesy, they gave the floor to a senator of the 5 Star Movement, they came out in protest, because they thought I was incensed, and the only incensed one could perhaps create a dangerous precedent. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These are the people you send to the territory with your unfair laws. Well, you can't endorse how much certain characters strut in front of the citizens; excuse the emotion, but you can't go on like this. How the Renzi Government and its majority have been parking this measure for two years and then making it light, not listening to the 5 Star Movement. What are you doing? You guys get out of here when we make smart proposals? All our proposals are constantly rejected. What happened to the DASPO to the politicians? An amendment of the 5 Star Movement was presented to the Senate; this was announced by the Renzi Government. What happened to the DASPO to politicians who would prevent these situations throughout Italy? I have told you one, but all Italy is so; all the situations we go to find are the same. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We want DASPO for politicians and corrupt administrations. In general, the proposals of the 5 Star Movement provide for the increase of the penalties for the corruption, re-aligning the cases and recovering the logic of the sanctions in the code, the doubling of the limitation periods for the crimes of corruption, the early cessation of the beginning of the prescription, the perpetual application of the ban from the public offices and the inability to negotiate with the public administration in case of all the crimes against the public administration. Now it's up to you, at some point. The situation is this: Italy is a corrupt country in the soul. It is up to you to decide who to be with: with honest citizens or with the clique. Make your decision: we are here for an ethical alliance. We're at your disposal. The ball now passes to you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u65	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u66	Mr President, the crisis that our country is going through is economic in its effects, but cultural and social in its premises. In fact, today we are discussing a measure much awaited by public opinion and civil society and that intends to go exactly in the direction of introducing serious and structured antibodies averse to the corruption phenomenon, as are those guidelines that the Ministry of the Economy and the Anti-corruption Authority presented yesterday on the societies participated by the State. However, the greatest reform that our country must carry out is, first of all, in my opinion, a reform of conscience; a true self-form, of those that are not imposed by law, but that concern the responsibilities of every person. I include, in the broad concept of responsibility, the relationship that each of us establishes with society as a whole, with our own affections, with our work colleagues or with our friends. I intend to refer to the idea of social responsibility, which refers to the need for the public good to be inevitably connected with the private sphere and which, by interfacing with it, notes that a complex society is composed of the summation of the behaviors, thoughts and actions of the people who compose it. Therefore, the corruptive phenomenon, both atavistic and often, unfortunately, naturalized to human weakness, extends its borders beyond the public side, enters the private sphere and the different facets in which the two fields interconnect. It creeps into every turn of the social and institutional reality, undermining its foundations. For this reason it is essential to act by every means to reclaim society starting from within it, with the help of that part of civil society, state and political forces who believe in the supremacy of intangible moral and ethical values. For this reason, in order to combat corruptive phenomena, which we discover not today to be present within the community at all levels, it is necessary to awaken consciences, that invests both society understood as a whole and that, nevertheless, interests closely the soul of each of us. In order to achieve such an objective, it is clear that a law that tightens the penalties in inhibiting operation - an excellent law such as the one we are discussing today - is indispensable. But the deterrent function, to which this tightening of penalties refers, is only part of the solution. Unbreakable, but partial. This is because it is essential to combat the phenomenon by attacking it from several quarters, therefore also by providing for appropriate criminal sanctions, but we cannot stop at the penalty side. It is not for this reason that the need to include new rules on fake in the budget and the increase of penalties for certain crimes of corruption in judicial acts, for induction, for sin, for own corruption and for mafia association should be diminished. This is a fundamental and indispensable step. It is a basic foundation, but it is not possible to delegate only the full resolution of the matter to the judiciary or to the law enforcement agencies. It is also strategic, in fact, to really address the corruptive phenomenon in all its facets, to act with strength and perseverance on the side of education, intervening in a structural way within every family unit and in schools to train our young people from the earliest age. This task is entrusted to the State, but also to the individual conscience, to the public and to the private. The problem is not only those who do evil, but also those who watch and let do it, in indifference and silence. We need a step of dignity on the part of politics and institutions, but also of all citizens and citizens: the anti-corruptive rule must be written, in clear letters, first and foremost in the conscience of each of us. We must look without being afraid to see in some way how much each of us is involved, how pervasive and widespread this corruption is in our society. It is not, in fact, only those who take the bribe and give it that must scandalize us; but we look at how, often, we all self-justify in some way, involving ourselves in gestures that seem of little account. But it's not like that. All this is devastating in the formation and growth paths of our young people, who observe and repeat the models that live. On the side of anticorruptive culture, which is beyond the question of the norms of order and which concerns society, we must continually educate, form, grow, without ever forgetting how much ethical, moral and economic damage it has caused and does to our country, as my colleagues have said before. We often have a short memory of scandals and we are ready, indeed very ready, to judge when someone, for illegal acts, is discovered. But how many of us are ready, in our daily lives, to always support legal paths, sometimes long and complex, in place of shortcuts and subterfuges functional to their particular interest? On the generalized culture that guides and directs the consciences of citizens cannot be acted by law: it is the formation of a responsible civic culture, attentive and serious the real foundation of a society that wants to look to the future with renewed confidence, first and foremost in those representative institutions that are the leader of it. As President Napolitano said in his last message at the end of the year, it is necessary for each of us to participate in a global commitment by confiscating the snare of indifference, in order to stop these regressions and degenerations. By taking charge of this commitment, we will be able to place our internal political and social problems and conflicts in their actual dimension, exceeding that limited horizon in which we risk closing down. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u67	As there is a long list of senators who wish to speak, the general discussion will continue at the afternoon sitting. I shall therefore refer the following to the debate on the drafts of the law in the course of another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u68	We greet the students of the Istituto comprensivo Statale D.1 Cavour of Marcianise, in the province of Caserta, who follow our work from the stands. We thank them for visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u71	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, once again we are witnessing an announced crisis. This time it's up to the Mercone Uno supermarket chain, leader in furniture. These are 79 points of sale in Italy and, once again, many, many working citizens live the anguish of their future. Once again, many families are in the nightmare of insecurity: parents who do not sleep at night because they do not know whether tomorrow they will be able to pay the rent of the house or the mortgage or do not know if they will be able to give their children the safety and serenity that every parent would like to give to their loved ones. At Mercatone Uno, women mostly work. Saturday, March 21st I met them in their garrison of Navacchio, in the province of Pisa. At the same time my colleagues met the same workers in the areas of Catania and Mappano. The women of Pisa and Navacchio have worked for three years with solidarity contracts and, therefore, with minimum wages. They are angry, indignant women who are struggling for their main right: the right to live a dignified life through their work. In the wake of political choices dictated by the previous governments and by this government, that someone ironically says that it is also left-wing, they give themselves the tools to make social butchery of the weakest, in favor of the great multinational giants who absorb as vacuum cleaners of horror everything around, directing the work in an unbridled race towards the lowering of wages and rights! Once again, they are women with many places at risk in the South. In short, they are always the weakest! As a 5 Star Movement we have submitted a question to the House, but to date the Ministers have not yet answered us. The managing director of Mercone Uno, Bernasconi, submitted to the court of Bologna a booking application for admission to the procedure of prior arrangement. The precarious fate of many citizens and many families is already marked. In Italy there are about 3,700 workers of the holding company, and then there are those of the induced: thousands more. The industrial plan contemplated the restyling of about twenty stores a year, compared to a dozen already closed in 2013: a failed industrial plan and promised by Pinocchio! The current rescue plan would like a part, about half of the warehouses, saved by a possible buyer: and for all the others save who can! In the meantime, the super sales were taken (such as in Navacchio di Pisa) at 70 percent, even if this has not yet been authorized and formalized by the court of Bologna, creating disconcerting among the workers who clearly see themselves taking the goods from under their noses, in a sure and safe way, by the buyers, who line up to empty the warehouses! The proven proof that after the sale is over, the workers will be in the middle of a road. Mr President, I would like a minute more time. This is a situation that has touched me personally. I saw women crying, and they hugged me crying and they were really desperate. Please give me at least one more minute. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it to continue. Mr Paglini (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. There is no feeling that there is a state that protects them and their families! Never before in Italy do we need certainties, those that only a guaranteed income could give: a citizenship income, for which we of the 5 Star Movement are struggling! A breath of relief to all these workers of Mercatone Uno (and I think of all those of the induced and those without protection) and to all the other citizens who are not guaranteed, crushed by the arrogance of the markets and multinationals, so desired by Renzi and company. We of the 5 Star Movement will follow this umpteenth tragedy of work closely. I am filing another question on this subject and, therefore, we ask the Government, the Minister of Labour and the Ministers in charge, to have precise and precise answers. What do you want to do with all these citizens on sale at 70% of your system? Citizens, workers, please: fight, fight, fight! We will be at your side, always with you! And remember that work is not a pleasure, but a right! Work is not a favor, it is a right! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u74	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two days ago, the most important national and Abruzzo newspapers reported the arrest of Raffaele Cilinder, an entrepreneur near the Casalesi clan, involved in the reconstruction after the earthquake in L'Aquila. According to the reports of both the "Corriere della Sera" and "la Repubblica", Raffaele Cilindro for years would also cover the fugitive of the boss of the Casalesi Michele Zagaria. He worked together with the entrepreneur Alfonso Di Tella, who was arrested in June last year as part of an operation on the alleged camorristic infiltrations in reconstruction operations, so that the post earthquake works in the centre of L'Aquila were entrusted to companies close to Casapesenna's Camorra, his country of origin. Let us see how corruption takes place in practice. New shadows, therefore, are concentrated on the reconstruction in L'Aquila, yet another demonstration of the evil and the mafia-camorristic infiltrations that have governed the post earthquake phase in recent years, with bureaucratic delays accumulated also for faults of the local and national political class, unable to place the least embankments to what was happening. We in the 5 Star Movement, as my colleague said before, also make good proposals, both in Parliament and in local meetings, as well as denounce for years the grey areas, the widespread illegality and the lack of transparency that have marked the custody of reconstruction works from 2009 to today. Since the beginning of the parliamentary term, I have been asking for a Commission of Inquiry to be set up, but Document XXII, No 5 (which I am asking for the fifth time today, ladies and gentlemen), which has been assigned to the Environment Commission, is not yet scheduled. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The truth is that you fear the establishment of political responsibilities and you are afraid of what might come out of an investigation that would go hand in hand with the already very important ones that the judiciary is carrying out. Paragraph 2 of Rule 162 of the Senate Rules (which often apply also to put to the vote, not the amendments, but the maintenance of the articles) states unequivocally in this regard: When a proposal for a parliamentary inquiry is signed by at least one tenth of the members of the Senate, it shall be placed on the agenda of the competent Commission, which shall meet within five days of referral. The President of the Senate assigns the Commission a time limit to report to the Assembly. At the end of that period, however, the proposal shall be placed on the agenda of the Assembly at the first sitting following the expiry of the time limit (...)............................................................................................................................................. If the regulations are valid for all and the current ones are still valid, of the two: either the Presidency of the Senate, contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, has not yet set any time limit within which the Environment Commission must report to the House on the proposal of the parliamentary inquiry, or it is the Environment Commission that ignores the deadline imposed by the Presidency of the Senate. I therefore turn directly to the Presidency and ask, for the fifth time, that an appropriate and necessary clarification be provided on this matter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-416.ana.u75	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.52 p.m.
