ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.06 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 24 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u3	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] After a hundred years of intense life, Pietro Ingrao died on Sunday. It was born at the beginning of the First World War and grows in the harsh storms of the two wars that bloodied the Continent. Young intellectual throws himself passionately into the political struggle. As he says in his autobiography, the civil war of Spain, the need to engage, ripped it - these are his words - from the arcadia and the passions that marked the first loves for literary writing. In this way he developed a life choice that made him one of the protagonists of Italian politics. We have had choral testimonies in these last days of the extraordinary quality of his experience as a man, intellectual, executive and militant; of his particular ability to read and interpret the transformations of Italy from an agricultural country to an industrial country, marked by emigration as well as by the advent of mass consumption and the revolution of customs. His particular sensitivity also made him a politician loved by those crowds who animated his meetings. But Pietro Ingrao was also a protagonist in the life of our institutions. Deputy from 1948 to 1992 (when he chose not to reappear) and Chairman of the Communist Party Group in the Chamber of Deputies from 1968 to 1972, he was President of the Assembly from 1976 to 1979, in crucial and dramatic years of republican history. He struck his speech in the Chamber of Montecitorio with which he wanted to open this experience. Aware of the gravity of the moment (the economic crisis, unemployment, the scourge of inflation) Ungracious claims to Parliament - these are his words - a decisive role of real unification of the country. Parliament, in Ingrao's vision, must be more and more the organ that promotes and unifies this original democracy of people that characterizes our country. As President of the Communist Group, he was one of the protagonists of the 1971 reform of the Regulations, and as President of the Assembly he developed the idea of Parliament as a unitary institution, whose conflicting parties still carry out their functions together. Ingrao stimulates the strengthening of the function of the Groups, which become the real decision-makers in all the internal activities of the Chambers; introduces the programming of parliamentary work as a method by which the Parliament, together with the Government, organizes the legislative function and that of control. It makes the House, its offices, its library, cultural centers open to the public and qualified support documentation for parliamentary work. All this at a time when the challenge of terrorism to the republican institutions was being made dramatic. The bloodshed of so many servants of the State, professors, journalists, workers will be in force throughout the legislature. Ingrao had the hard task of announcing, on March 16, 1978, the massacre of Via Fani. And it was his turn to hold, together with Amintore Fanfani, the helm of Parliament in the difficult days that constitute a real watershed in the history of our Republic. At this juncture, President Ingrao in the Chamber of Montecitorio said: They want to reduce politics to war of armed teams, they want to show that democracy is impossible, they want to tear the Constitution not only as a written norm but as a conviction, trust, hope within the soul of the people (...) and we continue Ingrao we want to show that the Constitution, the fruit of the creative struggle of our people and its free organizations, opens a new horizon, in which millions and millions of men and women can confront themselves in freedom, can transform themselves and society on the basis of conviction and consensus. Leaving the highest rank of Montecitorio, Pietro Ingrao continued, with the breadth of horizons and the intellectual passion that belonged to him, to work to implement the spirit of the Constitution. He did so in particular as president of the Study Centre for State Reform, always claiming the central role of Parliament. In the concept of Ingrao - they are always his words - a parliament to be strong needs a strong government, and not a confusion of roles. The pathologies to be corrected (Ingrao pointed out in particular the wave of decree-laws that put Parliament in front of the accomplished fact) as well as the reforms to be done in the very structure of Parliament, cannot, however, cancel this difference of roles that cannot be sacrificed - said Ingrao - in the name of an abstract "governability." The man who, reflecting on his life as a militant, wrote in a poem of his, we thought of a tower / excavated in the dust of the institutions as a man and intellectual who reflected on them gave us, in addition to a high teaching and a model of rigor, also a lesson that is still current and in some ways foreshadowing, with which we must and will still have to confront ourselves. I greet the family members present in the forums, to whom I renew the expressions of deep condolence and participation. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Live, prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u6	TRONTI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with deep emotion - and you will hear it from the tone of my voice - that I try to find the right words to remember the figure, the person, of Pietro Ingrao. I will not retrace the conflicted events of his political life. The committed words of President Grasso have already fulfilled this task. I want to lighten with flashes the Ingrao man, the human essence of the Ingrao politician: and I try to do it more with his words than with mine. Those words especially of the last phase of his life, which he had in time to occupy an entire century. Death, the last enemy, as the Scriptures recite, has struggled to break down the old oaks. We were so used to hearing it and to making ourselves feel, to know it behind us, that this silence, now, will weigh us. But he said, just a few years ago, about the silence: "Silence" said "it's nothing," "absence." It's an inner thought... Shut up, but do the silent act. Being silent is an act... and poetry, for me, is like a reading of silence. And silent had been in his last years, naturally secluded, after a life in which - using a famous phrase - the struggle had been his element. But always curious about everything and everyone. His conversation was a continuous interrogation. What are you doing? What do you think? He was still saying about himself: I've never been a man of the rule. I liked too many and disparate things in life and, over the years, this arrangement became more acute. So here's a phrase that almost defines it as being kind with my old age. When, on March 30, we celebrated his hundred years, solemnly in the Chamber of Deputies, in the presence of President Mattarella and President Napolitano, Chamber of Deputies of which, as has been recalled, he had been President in the dramatic years 1976-79, it was then thought to hold the day: "Pietro Ingrao" or the nobility of politics. Then, it seemed that there was an excessive emphasis in that expression, which he might not have liked; but today we can say that this is the theme to which we recall the disappearance of this man. We must pass on the example of those who have lived politics in a high way, as a choice of life, dedicated to a cause, especially to the younger generations. Ingrao was a politician by profession; he lived for politics, not politics; a profession, in the weberian sense, like Beruf, that is also vocation. His words again: Politics in my life is a tenacious passion. Even today, at such an advanced age - it's a conversation of 2011 - it's not off. I hesitate to explain it with a moral motivation. I do not live it as a having to be, indeed, I am shaken by vital passions, I would say by the corporeity of life. Literally thrown into politics - as he has told us several times - by the great history (end of the 1940s) in the middle of that great tragic century that was the twentieth century, the fascism at the end, the war, the Resistance, the post-war, the eruption through the Republic and through the Constitution, of the masses in the State, according to his famous definition: "Masse e potenza" is the title of his famous book. It may surprise that passage mentioned above: the political passion that is not explained with a moral motivation, but is argued in a profound and very convincing way for me. He said, "It weighs on me the suffering of others." But it's not an unselfish feeling. It is I who am sick, who live as unbearable the living conditions of the oppressed and exploited... Politics, therefore, is an act for me, not for others. And so let us say today: it is we who are ill, when we see men, women and children who tirelessly walk - a path of hope - on the rails where trains generally run, to escape war and misery. I am sick when I ask myself: am I also responsible for this condition of the world? And what can I do to make up for it? That's where it goes. It's where politics gets motivated. He's always painted Ingrao as a visionary. He insisted on "I wanted the moon" of his book of memories; but he said of himself: "Unlike I'm often described, I'm not a visionary utopian. Politics has interested me in its doing. It still happens to me today - also here, 2011 - to pay attention, even excessive, to his tactical passages. Well, that too is politics in its arduous complexity. After all, some of these passages have been wrong and have been honestly and courageously recognized. He said something else: For me politics is: me and others together, to influence, even for a gram, human events. Outside of this collective action I would not be able to make politics. Next to the visionary, he insisted on hereticism. Now, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I usually make a distinction between heretic and eterodox, or non-orthodox. The heretic is the one who breaks and leaves his field, from the Church; the non-orthodox is the one who fights, with criticism, orthodoxy, remaining in his own field, in the Church. Ingrai is this second type of man, in whom I recognize myself. He never made an act of repentance from being a communist. He was so critical, he was in dissension - I remember the famous phrase: "I wouldn't be honest if I told you that you convinced me... " but he never repudiated the life choice he made once and for all. He was undoubtedly a man of doubt, so much so that the very doubt of the winners is titled his book of poems. In reality he was also a man of certainties. I deeply believe that he can doubt, he has the right to doubt, only those who believe, those who believe in something, those who have - let's call it his name - a faith. We live in a time when to be modern, or worse, post-modern, we no longer have to believe anything: it is the age of absolute skepticism and rampant relativism. But like that nihilist who was Cioran said, those who believe nothing end up believing everything, everything they are told. From the way I knew him, I must say that Ingrao lived with the same passion - a passion, indeed, political - both the hope and the defeat of communism, with a pride not tamed. "Indignant is not enough," he said, responding to the "Indignant!" by Stéphane Hessel. He says one of his verses: "Get the defeat up," to read this way: give a high thought to defeat and do not let it lower you, try again, with the struggle, other possible passages, walk on the old paths without letting you miss anything new. This is the message that Peter leaves us and I hope - let me say, however, that a little despair - that it will be collected. [[Stretch applause. The PD Group senators stand up. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u9	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, it is certainly not easy to speak on this occasion, after his words and after those, so intense, of Senator Tronti, who reminds us that with Pietro Ingrao disappears the last glow of Italian communism and that with him one of the most representative and complex representatives of the Italian Communist Party goes away. The above mentioned "I wanted the moon," title of his autobiography, expresses well both the passion that he has always manifested in his communist militancy, and the contradictions that characterized his thought and his political action, the result of his many unorthodox doubts, as Senator Tronti said. He knew how to look at the rising movements, but without ever turning away from party discipline: discipline is a condition of the mind, even before an organizational model. He was a Marxist who loved the calls of revolutionary maximumism, but without ever contradicting the reasons and the truth imposed by the party. He was fascinated by utopia, but at the same time he was anchored to the most cynical political realism, if we still want to define it. Supported by these contradictory drives he was observant Stalinist, but immediately ready to join the new course as soon as Krushchev denounced Stalin's crimes. It was very hard to condemn the Hungarian revolt of 1956, then defining the Hungarian patriots as counterrevolutionary bands, insurgents for freedom and democracy, except then to define his position as - ahilui! - an unforgivable mistake. In 1966, at the 11th Congress of the PC, he remained isolated doing a battle to claim the right to dissent, which he loved so much. Then, however, a few years later, in 1969, he left his comrades of cordata who formed the group of the manifesto and who disagreed with the party's philosoviet line, voting for their expulsion. That's what he was: an Orthodox utopian. In 1989 he finally opposed the change imposed by Occhetto, but he remained in the new formation of the PDS until 1992, and then abandoned the skills and political activity as we had known it in him. He was a man of the institutions and one of the first to be aware of the need for their modernization which, according to him, should have also understood the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism, but through a process involving all political forces in a broad democratic confrontation, because he knew that the fundamental Charter of the State cannot be changed with rapid lightness, as we see today. You, President Grasso, have explained this better than anyone else: to those words, to that warning and to that lesson we should all do it again. Pietro Ingrao is therefore a distant example from our ideal and political settings, but to him we recognize that with his passion, his intelligence and his extraordinary humanity, he has contributed to making Italian political life alive and exciting. Get some more! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u12	D'ANNA (AL-A). Mr President, I would like to pay tribute to a man from the institutions and I would like to be an opponent. I have never had points of ideal or ideological contiguity with the politics that Ingrao represented, but this passes into second order. I believe that Ingrao must be handed over to the history of the defenders of democracy, and of parliamentary democracy. I believe that commemorating a figure of great cultural importance and great democratic determination is not only a ritual homage, an almost liturgical form, even if secular, to remember a man of such great depth. I believe that remembering men as Ingrao means reminding the contemporaries that around the defense of the freedom of democratic institutions the future can be built when forms of discredit and delegitimization of parliamentary institutions seem to take over among the common people through other forms of political representation, such as telematic assemblies or anything else between the sovereign people and those representing them today. I believe that for Ingrao it is worth what Pareto said when he spoke of the socialists, saying that socialism has always had many more proselytes of liberalism, because to honest and intelligent men it cannot but fascinate the idea that everyone is equally free from need and equally happy. Of course, they are not of this opinion, and that is the difference. I believe in equal opportunities and not in the forced equality of outcomes, but this does not make me veil: I remember President Ingrao, during the kidnapping and the massacre of Aldo Moro and his escort, holding the bar steady, like the political leaders who at that time did not want to bend the State to blackmail and the subversive violence of the Red Brigades. Yesterday, when I was reached by the news of his death, I found in me a sense of discouragement, and perhaps of pain, that I never thought I should feel. I thank men like Pietro Ingrao, because if today we have the opportunity to testify here that freedom and democracy are inseparable and are alive and strengthened within the democratic institutions that the State has given itself, we owe it to men like him. It may seem like a paradox, but from now on anyone who loves this country and these institutions will feel more alone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u15	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, Pietro Ingrao, historian leader of the Communist Party and former journalist, died: he was one hundred years old and last month the Chamber of Deputies celebrated him, at the end of his venerable age (he was born in the province of Latina, on 30 March 1915). He approached the anti-fascist movements, in the mid-1930s, during the Second World War he became partisan and lived in hiding for about two years; after the war, he became one of the most important representatives of the left wing of the Italian Communist Party and, over the years, had various polemics with the various politicians of the more moderate wing, such as Giorgio Amendola and Giorgio Napolitano. He directed the Unit and was a member of the PCI for a long time. He was also the first Communist President of the House. He was opposed to the dissolution of the Communist Party and among the greatest opponents of the "Bolognina turn," which led to the end of the Italian Communist Party. He was in fact among the signatories, the main animators and the inspirers of the minority motion who opposed the line of Secretary Achilles Occhetto. He chose, however, to remain inside the new Democratic Party of the Left, although, two years later, he left the PDS to enter the Communist Refoundation, of which he was a member until 2008. A complex and tormented personality, for thirty years he approved the invasion of Hungary and then, however, regretted it. As an elder, he dissolved from his party, giving a radically pacifist speech against Italian ships in the Persian Gulf. He was respectful of the thought of others and always asked for the opinion of the interlocutor, before expressing his own. It was written that Ingrao was a very strange communist: open to doubt, when communism did not admit it; inclined to question much about the afterlife, disposed to any kind of dialogue with religious and heretics; communist all in one piece, who never kept his own mistakes; he felt a man of the people, communist because they populate, not a refined intellectual; revolutionary of profession and intellectual of the most critical; poet, passionate of cinema, man of the institutions in the most critical and worst moments of republican life. The first communist on the highest chair in Montecitorio, in the dark years, from 1976 to 1979, was President of the Chamber when the body of Aldo Moro was dumped by the Red Brigades in an alley near the headquarters of the Communist Party and the DC. In Ingrao's vocabulary there were two words, very distant among them, but they had a particular place in his being: moon and barricade; one beautiful and the other rough, just like his being, that will accompany forever those who had the pleasure of knowing him, meeting him, following him and loving him. He will also accompany those who have fed on the hardness and tenderness of his words. I'll finish and change the subject, because I also had an extra glass of wine today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u18	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, on behalf of my colleagues in the Group of the Left Ecology and Freedom of the Mixed Group, I would like to mention Peter Ingrao, who for me and for many of us was not only a party partner, but also a constant reference point, I would like to say a teacher, whose teaching is one of the most beautiful and extraordinary pages in my opinion in the history of the left of our country. I would like to remind him from some images, that perhaps more than many words tell his struggle, his commitment, the testimony of an Italian communist of the twentieth century: that of the young man who takes the microphone on the stages of the first rallies of Italy liberated, under the eyes of the partisan leaders, and then that of a hand to the head, a patch, a bandage, the blood after the strokes of the fast during the demonstration against the law scam. We are at the beginning of the fifties and Ingrao, at the time director of the newspaper "The Unity," has already present what will be the constant search for a whole life: democracy, that democracy that a Italy recently emerged from fascism saw at risk because of an electoral law scam; that democracy that became for him a continuous reason for analysis and reflection, deepened in the following years, of course during the period when he was President of the House and when he directed the Center for Studies and Initiatives for the Reform of the State. Then there is another image, the unforgettable one of the 11th PCI Congress. Ten years had passed since the dramatic events of Hungary and evidently for Ingrao had become unbearable the idea that the reason of party came first of all the rest and that courage to disagree that perhaps missed him in 1956 (he himself recognized him years later) instead found him in that 11th Congress. At some point in his speech, he said: I would lie to my comrades if I said that you persuaded me; they all remember it, but it was the first time that a phrase like that was uttered in such a solemn context and so little accustomed to such a phrase. That phrase meant a lot in political and even human terms. Ingrao lost the congress, but the history of the following years showed that he had grasped the fundamental changes of Italian society and those same masses that represented the social block of reference to which he had not stopped looking. He had seen the riots that already crossed the country, the same pressures that also came from the Second Vatican Council, that energy that was translated two years later into the great movement that nothing would leave as before, 1968. His political hypothesis, defeated in the party congress, moved from the idea that politics was not only a great engine of history, but that it should not pay a duty or subalternity to economic compatibility; it also moved from the intuition that the break-in of movements on the political scene could become an effective (perhaps unique) response to the crisis of representative democracy that it already perceived. Still in another image of his political path this research does not fail. We are in the middle of the seventies, Ingrao becomes President of the Chamber and interprets that role not only with the institutional capacity, the correctness, the institutional profile that the opponents recognized him, but above all not meaning it as a role separated from the social dynamics. Then also those years, like the other very important experience I mentioned earlier, that of the direction of the Centre for the Reform of the State, become an opportunity for him to reflect on the themes that were most important to him: democracy, the relationship between rulers and rulers, that between the masses and power, the historical necessity to enter dynamic elements into those institutions born from the Anti-fascist Resistance. This research leads us to another image, one of the last of its political history. It is that of the Congress of the dissolution of the Italian Communist Party. Ungracious, as we know, contrasts that outcome and, once again, is defeated. But in his elaboration again, again this time, there is no trace of nostalgic orthodoxies and not even of mere belonging to a field that was crumbling and of which he, among the first, had read all the unbearable contradictions. Rather, there is the belief that changing a name and changing a symbol would also mean changing a political line and forever giving up the critical system and alternative society that would have served. His subsequent interventions, those subsequent to the turning point (the pacifism, the "no" to war, the constant and constant call to Article 11 of the Constitution) are there to testify to this. I want to conclude with one last image, this much more recent one, which dates back to his hundredth birthday. To the family, to those who are here and to those who are not there, we offer our condolences today; the companions and friends of a lifetime, the women and men of the institutions celebrate it. Unfortunately, it is not celebrated by his beloved Laura, who died a few years earlier; but several generations of women and men not only on the left pay homage to an extraordinary figure of our time: Peter Ingraus, the man who had taught to cultivate doubt, who shunned dogmas and easy certainties; the man who loved poetry, who loved cinema and who - as he wrote - wanted the moon; the man who had pursued for a lifetime that simplicity so difficult to realize. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u21	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, fellow Senators, our Group bows to the memory of Pietro Ingrao and shares affectionately in the pain of his family members: all the more so in many of us because forty-eight hours before Pietro Ingrao we learned that his son-in-law, Professor Giorgio Israel, a dear friend and university colleague, had left, alongside which many of the center-right had fought many battles, including that for the freedom of the school, and that for the defence of the guarantees of the State of Israel. Pietro Ingrao was a great reference point in the history of Italy and this morning, I think with intelligence, in the newspaper on which it was more difficult and more complex to remember him, on "the Unity," a much younger collaborator of him, Francesco Cundari, invited us not to ghettoize Pietro Ingrao in the infamous circuit of heretics against the Orthodox, libertarians against the dogmatics. Pietro Ingrao represented something more and his figure crosses the whole history of Italy. Perhaps it was Peter Nenni who portrayed him better than anyone in advance of his life and his own generation in that very old writing "The Nineteenth." In Pietro Ingrao there were anxieties of movementism, anxious search for attention to movements. When he came out of fascism, literature, cinema, good poetry, he, grazing, who would then arrive in a party of Carducciani, that of Togliatti, Ingrao - it is read in the autobiographical volume that quoted colleague Tronti in his beautiful intervention - went to visit Benedetto Croce. To Benedetto Croce he bears the witness of his anxiety, and asks him: And now, what to do? Obviously not in the metallically leninist sense. Croce answers him: "Ingraio, studied" (Translated with Google Translate) In his autobiography, Ingrao is not disappointed by this response of Benedict Croce; it was as if he expected it. Twenty years earlier, an answer similar to that received by Ingrao had been received by Cross, and he was disappointed and wounded, Giorgio Amendola, in the aftermath of his father's death, killed by the fascists. A great friend of Benedetto Croce, Giorgio Amendola had visited his father's friends: Albertini and Cross. In Amendola he had happened to be very disappointed because these great notables of antifascism, but above all of prefascism, had more or less told him what twenty years later Cross would say to Pietro Ingrao: "Massola, studied". Amendola, with a father killed by the fascists in Montecatini, had said: "Yes, study, but what does it mean?" Then he spent his days in Naples, mostly rowing, and chose to be a communist because it seemed to him a more advanced trench of anti-fascism than that of the Cross. Paradoxically, Amendola and Ingrao would then have been, in the already mentioned XI congress, the great opponents of completely different perspectives in the Italian left and I would say of the European left. Here I remember my curiosity; certainly I was not communist, indeed I was anti-communist and liberal, but under the blows of sixty-eighty-year-old - I was twenty years old in 1969 and refused the sixty-eighty, strong of the considerations of Pietro Nenni on the nineteenth - I went with my girlfriend to the cinema Fiorentini in Naples to listen to a meeting of Ingrao (I don't remember if it was 1968 or 1969). My girlfriend liked it; as far as I am concerned, she confirmed me in that Amendolia sympathy that I had had three years before; obviously this without any hostility to the person of Ingrao, who remained that potential interlocutor of movements and movementism (who then, someone remembered it, at some point voted for the expulsion of so many of her old friends who had given life to the experience of "Il manifesto"). However, as far as movementist, as far as the author of "Masse e potere" is concerned, as far as the pursuit of something new always restless, Ingrao, also merited the Secretary General of the Chamber, Tonino Maccanico, was an exemplary President of the Chamber of Deputies. You did well, Mr Grasso, to remember that speech, I must say very beautiful in terms of the country's history, which Mr Ingrao made on the occasion of the death of Mr Moro. Finally, I want to address a feeling of affection to his figure, of sympathy for the memory of this centenary Italian and, as I said, a particular embrace to his children, especially Bruna, who also lost Giorgio Israel on Friday. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u24	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, for me, the young elector of the Communist Party, the figure of Pietro Ingrao was the highest and farthest, in many ways as an example. I liked the choice of a difficult political struggle. The choice to face contradictions without ever taking refuge in silence, always facing the struggle; independent in thought and criticism, and capable of understanding and living the value of unity. Today I am grateful for one more reason. I have read in these days a 2004 text of yours in defence of Parliament as a place of confrontation and meeting of the various popular wills. Place of formation of the will of the Republic, which gives substance to the law, direct representation of the sovereign people, and therefore preeminent over the governments, of which he repeatedly denounced the attitudes of intrusiveness, well represented by the excess of the bill and so well represented by the attempt to counter-reform that we are witnessing today. I'm really sorry that you're missing. His courage in the struggle, however, is still an example, and it is precious. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u27	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, others in this House and outside have well described the characteristics of Pietro Ingrao as a man, intellectual, political, high representative of the institutions. As President of the Chamber he was correct and always inspired by respect for an institution he considered, and showed that he considered, as a place where Italian citizens were represented. He was a communist politician, consistent, honest and competent. Forza Italia believes that communism was a wrong and very damaging response to a sacrosanct need for the defense of the weakest and most unfortunate. Man has been an example of probity and a man of true quality. Politics is important and indispensable. It is a difficult profession, requiring intelligence, preparation and dedication. When you make politics and behave wrongly, you do a very serious damage to the credibility of the institutions and, therefore, to the country. Changing your mind is sometimes a sign of intelligence, but when you do it too often and out of personal interest, then you are just transformers and you bring discredit to yourself, institutions and politics. Pietro Ingrao was a correct man. According to Forza Italia from a politically wrong position honored politics, honored the institution and did good to our country. We greet his memory with great respect and with deference and affection towards family members. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u28	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u29	Mr President, Professor Mario Tronti's words have admirably described man, politician, intellectual Pietro Ingrao, his labours, his passions, his uncertainties and his convictions. Senator Tronti mentioned the simplistic vulgate of the Ingrao dreamer and visionary; but the vision, the dream, are nothing but the ideal translation of political passion, of the choice of field. That vision was actually an important thing: the desire to combine equality and hope, with the open spirit of free man. An Italian communist always in search and never prisoner of dogma. Suffice it to mention the titles of some of his books, on which we have studied so much at the time "Masse e potere" (Masse and power), "Crisi e terza via" (Crisi and third street), "Tradizione e progetto" (Tradition and project). There is always this profound idea of research. In the political struggle, the ingraians have always been a political and cultural current, never an organized current in the most classic of conceptions, testifying to the value of intellectual research. As a student, like so many young people, I read with passion his speeches, his writings and the desire for unorthodox change that they transmitted. There were no markers then, but we made great use of the red marker. He was also innovator in the institutions, said President Grasso. If more attention had been paid to his research, his reflection today we would not be in the "Cesarini area" on the subject of institutional and constitutional reforms and the crisis of democracy would probably be less acute. If we in the Left had been less conservative, we would have gone further. His reflections on the role of the Chambers, on monocameralism, his profound discussion of democracy were high points of reasoning in our country. Exactly thirty years ago he spoke, in the astonishment of many, of the constituent government. So Pietro Ingrao must be studied and respected, without undue appropriation, and must be made to live with his certainty: he was never a conservative. The Government, as already expressed by the President of the Council, truly and sincerely extends a grateful and moved embrace to the family and is grateful for what Pietro Ingrao has done in politics and in life. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u32	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, tomorrow morning the funerals of President Ingrao will take place in Piazza Montecitorio and I am asking you for the possibility that tomorrow's sitting may be suspended for as long as it takes to allow senators who wish to attend the ceremony to be present. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u33	Definitely. Colleagues, in renewing the House's condolences to the family members, I briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 12.05 p.m. and resumed at 12.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u36	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business to inform you of something - but you will already be informed - and to represent our concern about what happened this morning and which is taking place in these hours. The 8th Commission of which I am a member, together with others, was convened today to deal with the Update Note at the 2015 DEF. So far nothing strange, except that - but in this you will comfort me - we disapprove of the agreements made also at the Conference of the Leaders, in which it seems that it was decided that there would be no Commissions during the examination of the constitutional reform in this House. But that is not the point, Mr President. My concern - and not only my own, but of my Group and in particular of my colleagues sitting on the opposition benches, members of the various Commissions - is that in the Update Note sent to us by the Government there is, alas, the attached infrastructure, which, as you know very well, is a fundamental document to be able to speak, discuss and decide on the Update Note that the Government presents to us. Now, there is a small problem, Mr President, because, as we have been looking forward to this year, we have been looking forward to the update note, with its annex infrastructure, for a simple reason. You will probably remember how much Minister Delrio reassured us in April saying that we would cancel the so-called objective law; that we would do all the fundamental steps (which we could also share) by abandoning the book of dreams - so defined - of strategic infrastructures and drawing up a list of twenty-five works that would be included in the attached infrastructure (newness, Mr. President), but that however the Government would have undertaken during these months that accompanied us up to the Update Note, that is, today, to make a punctual survey with the regional administrations in order to redefine the strategic works that they would have presented in the attached infrastructure to the Update Note. Well, the President of the 8th Commission, Senator Matteoli, who I think has also been concerned about hearing the Ministry on this point, gives us for sure that the attached infrastructure will not be presented: that is the truth, Mr President, because you know that in the past years the attached infrastructure could perhaps have arrived a few days late. This concerns us very much because first of all - I want to say it without dispute, but representing to you our real concern - this means that the government has not done the tasks. In addition, I would like to know your position, Mr President, in order to protect this branch of Parliament, which has to decide on a measure that is de facto lame because without the attached infrastructure - allow me colleagues - it is like going to the city council to present a budget that includes one million euros for infrastructure (without specifying which ones will be) and to ask to vote on it because I think about it so much later. This is in a nutshell. Mr President, we are seriously concerned and would like to be able to go to the Commission and give a clear opinion on the update note, and particularly on the annex infrastructure. In fact, Mr President - and this is the very serious fact - the works that have been removed by the objective law at the time are also part of programme agreements signed by the Ministry, by territorial authorities such as Provinces, Regions, Municipalities, and perhaps ANAS or Ferrovie; therefore, in fact, we are going to cancel a contract concluded with all the Christs that the law imposes on us. So there is also a sort of embarrassment on the part of regions, municipalities and provinces, which have participated in the funding, because we do not know where the money has gone and what procedures we will have to adopt, Mr President. The objective law allowed us to adopt lean procedures and for this reason it was approved. If a work is removed from the objective law, the Minister must also say how and by what procedure he will go to CIPE to adopt it. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, for your authoritative speech, in order to guarantee the dignity of the Commission, but also in this House, so that the Government at least deserves to send us a note, to say that either it has not done the tasks, or that it is not able to do them or that we must take what the Government submits to us and approve it without debating anything, 'bovinamente', because that is okay. We would like this assurance from you, Mr President, because I believe that you too have embarrassed yourself and that it has also been a scar on your person that you have received such an important document in the Senate without the attached infrastructure. Mr President, we therefore call for your authoritative intervention in our protection, protection and protection of the country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u37	I will check this situation, but I recall that the Update Note does not expressly require, by law, the presence of the infrastructure annex, which is instead required for the DEF. However, I will verify this situation and possibly speak with the Government. FILIPPI (PD). That's right!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u40	SCIBONA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to take up and express my concern about this issue. In fact, the Annex infrastructure is a key part of the update of the DEF, all the more so this year: since the list of works was short, it would have been easier to present the annex and therefore it could and should have been presented. If the excuse is that there is nothing to update, because the works are always those twenty-five, I remember that the attached infrastructure also indicates the state of progress of the work. So, does that mean that nothing has been done? If so, then where does the strategicity end? Where does the government end up as a project? The matter is serious, because you have to know exactly where the citizens' money goes. The state budget must be precise and specific. As Mr Crosio said, if there is no fundamental part like the attached infrastructure, it is as if we were asked: "You approved in the dark and then we see how to go and spend this money." I don't think we should do this anymore. Mr President, allow me to add one thing: in the Update Note to the DEF it is also written that Europe will be asked for a derogation from the budgetary balance of the State, because we have had to bear considerable expenditure on migration. It seems to me to be very unworthy that a State is also lucrative over these misfortunes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and Senator Crosio).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u43	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking only to supplement Senator Crosio's request: it is true that the Commissions have been convened at the time when the work of this House is scheduled to be interrupted. We know how complicated the work will be, and the Heads of Group Conference itself had rationally decided that the Commissions would not convene at this time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u44	He had foreseen this during the votes, however, not by any means. I also repeat that the Update Note does not provide for the annex infrastructure by law. I will, however, make a further check. In any case, it will be the Government that will assess the opportunity to produce this document.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u47	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to speak on this subject, not to hang on to time, but to make it clear. During the meeting of the Conference of Leaders - we had discussed this - and we said it on more than one occasion in that meeting - it was decided that the Commissions should not be convened at this time, in view of the busy times of the sessions of the Assembly; in this way the senators would have the opportunity to organize themselves. The agreement - I repeat - was that the Commissions would not be convened. Nevertheless, I have received the call of the 7th Commission, of which I am a member, but I will not be attending the sitting for the simple reason that the agreements, Mr President, were different. PRESIDENT. - The debate is As I recall, the agreements were not to convene night sessions, which had been requested to carry out the work. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. However, we can return to this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u50	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, you know what I said the other day with regard to the convening of Commissions, including bicamerals. There is a very important debate going on and we continue to force senators and Members (but especially senators, since constitutional reforms are being discussed in this House, which, as we know, are not just any law) to run to the Commission. Very briefly (we are all here to wait) I would like to point out one thing because a serious fact has happened. In the evening newspaper "Corriere della sera" an article has been published today in which Anzaldi - following the scandalous statements with which De Luca attacks RAI "camorrista" - says that probably in RAI3 they do not know who won the elections and that they have not adequately followed the work of the Democratic Party. It's an attack. I don't take your time because I should read them...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u51	Senator Airola, we're not here to comment on the news that appeared in the papers. We are talking about the committees that are convened in conjunction with the work of this House. This is a problem that I will deal with the Presidents of the bicameral commissions. AIROLA (M5S). This is a political attack on the public information service! DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). What's that got to do with anything?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u52	What the PD is doing is a political attack on the public information system. Not even in South American dictatorships do these things happen. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I ask you and your colleagues to clarify the position of...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u53	Senator Airola, we can't comment on the papers in the morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u54	AIROLA (M5S). But this is democracy, President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, I get it. We'll talk about it when we talk about it. AIROLA (M5S). There's a PD attack on public service! [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u55	Senator Airola, I understand. You had the opportunity to express your opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u56	AIROLA (M5S). Thank you! At least a little bit of democracy. CARDINALI (PD). Shut up! Montevecchi (M5S). You shut up! [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u57	Senator Airola, you spoke.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u60	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, we should start work on constitutional reform, bearing in mind the provisions of Article 6 of the text that states: Members of Parliament have a duty to participate in the meetings of the Assembly and in the work of the Commissions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This provision has been approved by the two chambers in the same text and therefore it is not within our power to amend it. We are therefore proposing this principle for the future Constitution, but we are not respecting it during its examination. I ask you, Mr President, to do what I called for a long time ago: to be the man on the wall who does not give up, hold on and keep the nail fixed to guarantee the regularity of our work and of the citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u61	Senator Endrizzi, I've just finished saying that I'm going to talk to the Presidents of the bicameral Commissions to make sure we reconcile our work with those of the Commissions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u62	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 1429-B, which was first approved by the Senate and first amended by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that the Government representative's reply took place at the sitting of 24 September and that a proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles was rejected. I would also remind you that at the sitting of 24 September, Senator Russo raised a question about the eligibility criteria for amendments to the draft Constitutional Reform Act. In particular, it expressly referred to Rule 100 (3) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure. By the same implicit admission of Senator Russo, in fact, paragraph 3 makes no specific reference to the signing of the amendments, but only to their submission in writing, deemed, as a rule, necessary. Paragraph 4 also does not regulate the case of amendments tabled by individual senators, but the most limited case of amending proposals signed by eight senators, to derogate from the deadline prescribed by the Regulation (standard for other fall in desuetude). In order to affirm the need for the signature to be affixed to the amendments tabled by the senators belonging to the Group of the North League, Senator Russo then refers to established practice and cites the precedent of the amendments, although numerous, submitted to the electoral law. The Presidency has been able to verify that the measure before us in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of which Senator Russo, who took part in the proceedings, has not been raised or raised any question as to the admissibility of the amendments. Even those presented by individual senators in electronic format without autograph subscription were considered admissible and published on the Senate website. The Presidency of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs subsequently established the eligibility criteria for the substance of the same amendments, explaining the inadmissibility referred to in Articles 1 and 2, as reflected in the published reports. In the first place, I would point out that, in the same way as the 500 000 amendments submitted in electronic form in the Commission were numbered and ordered, the offices also completed the preparatory work relating to the 72 million amendments tabled in the Assembly, excluding those withdrawn by the authors in Articles 1 and 2. All the amendments submitted in electronic form to the Assembly were therefore equally numbered and ordered in good time. It must therefore be noted that in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the question of the non-subscription of the amendments submitted in electronic form has not been put forward or raised and that the offices have completed the work of ordering and numbering for all the amendments which have subsequently been tabled in this House. It is therefore not the formal argument of the lack of material signatures or the impossibility of making texts available to senators, out of the work of the offices, to guide the decisions of the Presidency. The reasons for the decisions that I am about to announce are not so much found in Rule 100 (3) and (4) referred to by Senator Russo, but rather in Articles 8 and 97 of the Rules of Procedure, which attribute to the President of the Senate the judgment of admissibility, proposability and admissibility of the amendments, which, of course, must be able to be exercised in time compatible with the timetable of work defined by the Conference of the Leaders and confirmed by different votes by the Assembly. In order to comply with the timetable, the Presidency is objectively unable to assess the large number of amendments in substance, if not at the price of creating a precedent enabling Parliament's work to be blocked for an incalculable period of time. Consequently, in view of this substantive criterion which can be derived from Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure, I consider it not inadmissible (inadmissibility refers to the substance) but inadmissible the same amendments, without prejudice to the amendments already received by the Presidency of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and retabled in the Assembly, without prejudice to those already withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u65	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I think I understand, but for the sake of clarity I ask you to confirm: do you tell us that they are inadmissible (I understand correctly, Mr President?) Why do you have no way and no time to read them? So we exclude a number of amendments regardless of the substance. Is that the interpretation? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do I have to repeat the motivation I read? There is also a problem of anonymity. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am concluding, if you will allow me. I am saying very quietly that the exclusion of most of the amendments will be due to the fact that you, of course not physically, have no way of verifying the substance. In this way you are creating a precedent that is very serious. I would like to say this to you, and I am not making any more controversy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u68	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I share Mr Volpi's concerns. We are talking about a reason for the inadmissibility of amendments linked to the substantial impossibility of being able to assess them: who will be able to identify tomorrow the limit of the impossibility to evaluate them? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, allow me to say that the precedent that you are creating tomorrow will allow someone else to say that, if the time is one day, 1,000 amendments cannot be evaluated or that, if everything is to be done in a few hours, 100 amendments cannot be evaluated and therefore accepted. With that motivation we are creating a precedent that will no longer limit anyone. If we are anticipating what will happen with constitutional reform, then I can also understand it: having already overcome the text all the doubts even of the minority of the Democratic Party, the problem now seems to be part of the majority, then perhaps that is the direction we will take. Mr President, let me also say that there has not even been a change in the Commission: the substance of the amendments has only been dealt with as regards inadmissibility. Are you, therefore, implicitly saying in any way that only those amendments which have already been examined by the Commission can be re-tabled in this House? Among other things, after a declaration of inadmissibility that ended there, in the sense that immediately after the Conference of Leaders, the work of the Commission was blown up. Mr President, I hope that the precedent will be clear and that the consequences that may occur in the future will also be clear, because we are always talking about the present, even when we are considering constitutional reform and electoral law, imagining that this is the situation and this is always the case, but this may not be the case. Tomorrow there may be, not in his place, because that place will be no longer there, but instead of the President of the House, someone who will use that precedent to silence the few minorities in that House, to silence them totally. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These are the prerequisites for a regime to return, not now, maybe in a few years, maybe in 20 years. That's the basis. AIROLA (M5S). Maybe in 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u69	Before giving the floor to the other senators who wish to speak, I would like to see a reflection on the explanatory statement I have given, not just on a part of it, in the sense that I have spoken of the abnormity of the number of amendments. The abnormity is represented by 85 million amendments; the 5 Star Movement has reasonably tabled 117 amendments, so between 117 and 85 million there is that range of abnormity. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] That's the problem. The exceptional nature of the tabling of amendments cannot allow Parliament to be blocked; that is the reason why. CRIMI (M5S). But abnormity is subjective. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to make this clear: the abnormity lies in the difference between the 117 amendments tabled by the 5 Star Movement and the 85 million tabled by the League. In order to evaluate them all we have calculated that it would take about seventeen years. AIROLA (M5S). It is the abnormity that is subjective! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, abnormity can only be objective. I repeat that 85 million amendments are an absolutely abnormal amount, after which all the appropriate assessments can be made. That's the motivation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u72	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, I would like to clarify a few things: is the inadmissibility to which you have referred selective, i.e. the amendments tabled by the League Group, or is it an inadmissibility which refers to the total number of amendments, which are also abnormal, so we will know if they are inadmissible at the right time, for example where the Groups have tabled amendments which have not previously been tabled in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? In practice, does the inadmissibility concern only the amendments tabled by the League Group?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u73	Senator Mauro, you're asking me to reinterpret what I just said. If I may clarify, I am willing to do so. The premise was that the amendments tabled by the North League were submitted in computer-based form and in an abnormal number of 85 million. [[Senator Volpi's comments.]] For the other amendments there is no discourse of inadmissibility, for consistency with those which have been tabled and considered admissible in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where moreover for some of them it has also been declared inadmissible (I speak of the amendments relating to Articles 1 and 2), and therefore the evaluation has begun also in the substance of the amendments, which have been received and published online on the site of the Senate (we are always talking about the amendments tabled by the North League). After that, the North League called for all the amendments tabled to the Commission to be put back in the Chamber in accordance with a practice which has always been followed and which certainly cannot be interrupted. Therefore, the amendments tabled in the Commission must also be assessed by the House. Therefore, the 85 million referred to above (which have been reduced because the amendments tabled in Articles 1 and 2 have been withdrawn according to the declarations already lodged) we are talking about the remaining amendments compared to those initially tabled. I hope that this is clear: we are talking about the amendments tabled on a computer basis and in an abnormal number by the North League. MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). I understand, therefore, that you have not yet spoken about inadmissibility. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Looks like you didn't hear anything. MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). I only want to know when you're going to do it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I will, of course, give my opinion before I begin the examination of the articles, since the examination of eligibility is still under way, given the number of amendments, including those received by the Commission. It is clear that this is a work that needs to be done in progress.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u76	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, this last clarification has given us additional elements because, frankly, I too had the impression that it was applied, on constitutional reform, the practice that is constant, for example, with regard to amendments to the Stability Act for which only the amendments tabled in the Commission should be tabled in this House, but this doubt has been resolved. There is, however, a problem. I have before me all the rules governing, according to our Rules of Procedure, cases of inadmissibility and inadmissibility of the amendments and it is clear - you cannot fail to be aware of this, although it is clear that we are faced with an extraordinary fact - that your decision introduces, in fact, as a precedent, an assessment that has been quite alien to this day: I am referring to that of fairness. You, Mr President, have taken this decision in the face of such a large number of amendments, but this precedent, namely the introduction of the element of adequacy and therefore of number, means that we could be faced in some time with a situation where a President can decide that perhaps one hundred or five hundred amendments are already too many. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Morra.]] From this point of view, you are fully aware that, as far as our Rules of Procedure are concerned, these matters are fairly serious, because a discretionary element is introduced. Either you agree with this precedent that the maximum number of amendments is 82 million, but it is clear that you cannot do so, or it is clear to everyone that there is a problem of changing the facts of our Rules of Procedure and also the practice. We are aware of the difficulties, but you know perfectly well that at the last Conference of the Leaders, the League had withdrawn amendments to Articles 1 and 2, so we were at a stage of being overcome. Your decision is a decision you take, but it must also be based on our Rules of Procedure, so I wonder if you do not want to think more about the consequences. This is also in view of the fact that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has never met again and that we continue to introduce changes in fact without any kind of support from the Council, which should also be responsible for interpretation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u79	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I must say that I agree with your decision. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]] I have to say that there is a principle of economics and reasonableness in the work of this House which should make it clear to anyone that the presentation of 85 million amendments is certainly not intended to discuss them, to examine them and to vote on them. AIROLA (M5S). Nor do they remove them from the Commission. ZANDA (PD). And the same Senator presented, even publicly, what his goal was: to use the mass of amendments to see approved part of the reform that he cared about. I must tell you that I agree with your decision and with the reasons for it, and I would add that the signing of the amendments tabled in this House is a requirement that we must consider necessary. I believe that there is a need from this point of view that I would like to point out to you: if we accept the principle that amendments in this House can be made with the cyclostyle or with the computer without even the signature of those who have presented them, we are creating a precedent that will determine in future real episodes of sabotage of parliamentary work. There are more than 300 senators, and anyone can table millions, even billions, of amendments, which can be declared admissible. And that's not possible. Let us return to the origins, Mr President. I realize that having the tools of new technologies opens up horizons that we did not know, but we go back to the origins. We have serious parliamentary work, we have tabled amendments, if possible, not with such blatantly obstructive objectives; we have tabled amendments which we have written personally, which we have read and which we have signed. In fact, signing up is a sign that must appear on the amendment to ensure parliamentary work. As for the comments made on your decision, in comparing 100 amendments to 85 million, the abhorrence of this issue, Mr President, is not only my support, but it is seen by any Italian citizen to whom we should ask for an opinion. I want to be careful with the use of words, but there was, indeed, an attack on the functioning of the Senate. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u82	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I am speaking in an attempt to understand better and to make a contribution to the debate of these minutes: I am referring to what you have opened with your communication. Mr President, you are asking yourself something that you cannot do, because, if you rely only on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, on the precedents behind us or on those, even more delicate and risky, which you could today, with the decisions you are taking and taking, determine, we would not get out of this debate alive. In fact, it seems to me all Kafkian. As you have pointed out, Mr President, starting from the anonymity of the issue, but first of all from the anonymity of a practice which has been intended to be introduced in the context of a debate such as this reading of the reforms. This debate could easily have remained in that Commission, taken place on the substance of the matter in that Chamber and arrived in the Chamber with a rapporteur, as a result of a work of skimming and political composition. In fact, the stone party to this debate is that political composition that is not entrusted to the Regulations. President Zanda mentioned this earlier, when he said that President Calderoli presented, in this innovative and imaginative way, a series of amendments to see some of his proposals and of the League Group accepted. But this is the normal procedure which, especially in the context of such an important reform process, should concern the lives of all groups. The latter must be able to find this solution. We tried to do so at the Conference of the Leaders last week, because President Finocchiaro in the Commission did not intend to speak and refer the decisions back to the Conference of the Leaders. Until last week, the issue of the admissibility of amendments, particularly on the substance of Article 2, was the main issue. We must not again discuss today also the appropriateness of the number of amendments because, in the distortion of this whole affair, we risk, through your precedent, Mr President, establishing a criterion for which there is a reasonable number of amendments. You know, on the other hand, that the regular work of amendment in this House is a guarantee of the expression of the majority and the opposition when reading a text and approving it. I therefore find it to be clear that the opposition, or some part of it, is entitled to a reasonable number of amendments, and that it is a very risky operation, Mr President, despite the fact that the offices (with extraordinary work which we must recognise as self-denial and competence) have numbered all the texts. I believe that today is the time to stop hiding behind the Rules of Procedure in order to tackle, each for his own part, a real opposition to this reform process, which is taken from the number and quality of the amendments tabled. Whoever speaks to you, President - as you know so many other groups - has tabled 150 amendments, but one more important than the other, because what has been lacking so far, or has happened through surrogate and distorting forms, is a serene comparison, a point of mediation between the proposals of those who, like me, stand in the opposition, and of those who, through the majority, support the work of this Government, which has intervened far too much in this process. This morning, President, you reminded the President of the Ingrao Chamber. This activity should take place with the empty benches of the Government, because the reform of the Constitution is the typical activity, the main activity of a Parliamentary Assembly. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]] Therefore, the distortions here are - yes - the abnormity of the amendments, but also the forcings made in the Commission, the stunted revenue in a parliamentary debate that obviously does not want to be serene. If we wanted it to be serene, we would rely on the responsibility of all the Groups - and this is where everyone's responsibility comes into play - to find a balance not between the demands of the opposition and the majority, but between what the Italians need and what they are serving only the sad spectacle of the theater of politics, to which I do not feel like joining. [[Applause from Senators Liuzzi and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u83	Senator Bonfrisco, since you have called the Chamber of Deputies, it is not up to me to remind you that your Rules of Procedure provide, however, for a vote on summary issues with the indication of the most important elements by each Group in relation to the consistency of the Group itself. This is a principle which has had to be fixed in the House, whereas the Senate has never had such a situation and, therefore, we are faced with an abnormal number of amendments tabled. This is therefore a principle that has already been considered valid in the House, which is to invite representatives of the individual groups to indicate the most important amendments to move to a vote on summary issues on the most important elements to be included in the debate. Sorry about this little notation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u86	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am quite concerned about your decision. I'm worried about the precedent you're creating today. I imagine this is a decision that you made after studying it and studying it for a long time with the offices, which together with you - I repeat - shared it even though we know that the final decision is the President of the Senate. I take some adjectives and nouns of his reasoning: the adjective is "abnormous," the first noun is "inadmissibility," while the other is "congruity." But what I'm most concerned about is your substantive assessment speech. A substantial assessment made at this point, and therefore not by regulation, introduces a reasoning: in a Parliamentary House, the substantial way becomes a political assessment, because I cannot interpret it differently. Then, if the political assessment is concerned, it is an assessment which has an absolute coefficient of discretion. Mr President, on such an important subject, which creates a very dangerous precedent, I would like to remind you of the path that has taken us to the present day. I would remind you that last year, in the process of examining constitutional reform, we came out of the Commission with two rapporteurs, President Finocchiaro and Senator Calderoli. And on that occasion, despite the diversity of positions, it was possible to activate a path that had a certain degree of obstructionism, so much so that the kangaroo or harmonization were adopted. However, there was a debate which was held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and within what can reasonably happen in a parliamentary Chamber. In this case, having referred to the decision taken in the first Commission and having accepted or found admissible - now we are not talking about eligibility - the 517,000 amendments tabled in the Commission (for their anonymity, it was decided that they should not be examined by the Commission, but that the problem should be referred back to the House), it follows that what you have formally decided today was essentially decided in the Commission. Then I have to say that I no longer understand what reasoning is being used to determine that these amendments are inadmissible. The 517,000 amendments from the Commission also contained those amendments to Article 2, on which, however, since we are considering them substantially (i.e. politically), we have a political reasoning and an in-depth analysis to do. Are they or are they not eligible? Is it possible or not to amend Article 2 of the draft law, namely Article 57 of the Constitution? That problem has been solved. And I must say that President Finocchiaro was more generous on that occasion - I use this term - than you were today, because you said, with great clarity and with the transparency that distinguishes you, that if you were to apply the Rules of Procedure under Rule 104, the amendments were inadmissible; but, if by chance all the political forces had agreed, you could also examine them. So he was delegated to politics, that is, it was a further act of evaluation in substance (i.e. political). That problem has therefore not been solved. But politics has said: no, on that point we do not agree and, therefore, we demand that they be judged inadmissible. And then we found the 517,000 amendments in this House, not having solved that problem. At this point you are telling us, with the wording you have proposed to us today, that 517,000 amendments are admissible, but not 72 million. But if we had presented 11 and a half million, what would we have done? I find it very difficult to make such a decision. You then took this decision after 11 and a half million amendments were withdrawn by the proposer at the Conference of Parents, so that it was decided in that forum that Articles 1 and 2 could only go forward with the amendments mentioned. Therefore, with the availability of the presenter by political means, as a voluntary act (it is the contradictive nemine changed and re-modified at the Conference of the Leaders by a decision in substance), a solution has already been found. You are telling us today that 72 million is not possible. So, Mr President, I would remind you that obstructionism, as a parliamentary institution, belongs to the history and tradition of the parliamentary Republic in which we are still insisting. And I remind you of two episodes: membership of NATO, when the Communist Party was the protagonist of a crazy obstructionist battle, and the famous scam law of 1953. There have been incidents which I do not agree with at all but which I recall to the other political side, on which fundamental and important obstructionist battles have taken place in this Parliament, which cannot be contradicted by the decision you are taking today, which seems to me to be very dangerous for the history and tradition of Parliament and the Senate. So, Mr President, because - in my opinion - this decision is wrong and because we are in a situation - I accept the adjective - abnormal, not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, your difficulty in deciding on the basis of the Rules of Procedure is all there is. And, therefore, you are not in a position to decide and you are forced to do so in a substantial way, considering the abnormity, the strangeness and the exceptionality of the situation created. Well, the only solution that the President is allowed to do in a substantial way, politically speaking, is to ask the proposer, in a group leader, for the possibility of continuing a reform process where the amendments are pointed out that it is right to examine to the extent that they can be considered appropriate. To decide today's inadmissibility, without having solved the problem of the inadmissibility or not of the famous amendments (unsolved problem in the Commission), seems to me the wrongest choice possible. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to consider very carefully the decision you are making, because it will still remain in history and create a very, very dangerous precedent. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u87	However, the presentation of 85 million amendments will remain in history. That is obvious. It's Guinness about primates. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u90	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, it is undeniable that we are faced with an extraordinary fact, as you have mentioned, and many of us know: the presentation of millions, and not hundreds of thousands, of amendments, which, even if they wish to examine them properly, would commit this House for many months. And this is a fact that the sound and transparent rules governing the functioning of democracy need to be observed and safeguarded for a moment. Days ago you stated that we must avoid the paralysis of Parliament and many of us cannot but agree with your statement, because we can block the path of political reforms and we can discuss it, but I fall in love with a Parliament that also discusses proposals of merit at night and not exclusively and exquisitely obstructing, even if they are presented in full compliance with the Rules of Procedure. There is always, however, a limit to everything. Personally, I have witnessed obstructive initiatives at various levels and - as you have rightly said - our Rules of Procedure are different from those of the House of Deputies. And I personally experienced this diversity when, in the two-cameral Commission of Alema, in the presence of so many amendments, I saw a number of amending proposals fall in clusters because President D'Alema, using the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, put the principle to the vote and therefore, if it was rejected, automatically fell - as I said, in clusters - all the amendments that could be linked or linked to the discipline of that principle. If the principle was rejected, the Regulation automatically allowed not a leghold trap, but a regulation of the start-up system or not to the approach of a new institution or a mode of discipline of the institution itself. We do not have this regulation. Ours - for example - does not provide for the quota of time in the Commission when it provides for it in this House, unlike the House, where I understand that there can be a contingency in the Commission, and we do so with more difficulty in this House. I must say, therefore, that we have a juniper of interweavings and regulations that sometimes places the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate before delicate choices. This is an extraordinary choice and, Mr President, I await the extraordinaryness of your decision, I would like to believe - and I think I can convince myself and I hope the House, and certainly the Presidency will have considered my reflection - that the inadmissibility of the number of amendments tabled comes from a technical assessment: if these amendments appear as blatantly obstructive or lacking in any innovative scope, they find in these reasons the logic of their inadmissibility. If we start from this assumption, which will certainly have illuminated in part the choice of the Presidency, namely the total lack of innovative scope and the obvious obstructive will, which therefore rightly legitimize the Presidency to declare them inadmissible, I think I have to make two considerations. If, within the framework of the 40-60 million amendments he has declared inadmissible, there should be some point, element or some proposal, at the level of individual initiatives, which he can find - for example - hospitality in the debate in this House, even if it has not been submitted to the Commission. But I repeat that this is an assessment by the Presidency in order to ensure that the exercise of the right to table amendments in this House has not been totally removed from a guillotine choice. And I say this precisely in view of the desire to enrich the quality of our debate and to ensure that colleagues who have tabled millions of amendments may not be deprived of the possibility of discussing a new subject that they have not introduced in the Commission. We are here and we will talk about it, but it will certainly be us - and you, Mr President - who together guarantee the exercise of the right to speak and to debate by colleagues who have tabled millions of amendments. Having said that, it is clear - you have done so explicitly, but I ask you to confirm - that your decision refers to the inadmissibility of new amendments tabled by the League, but not to those tabled by other groups in this House (and not submitted to the Commission), because there are amendments that bear the signature of the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and of the majority group leaders who have been tabled for the first time. I take it for granted - but you were clear in this regard - that your decision refers to the amendments tabled by colleagues in the League. I agree, therefore, with your choice, giving an interpretation to your explanatory statement on the inadmissibility of the amendments (because they are not modifiable, innovative and clearly obstructive), with a modest suggestion of my own: consider the Presidency - if it considers it so - in this excerpt not indifferent, but which I consider to be bitter and opportune if we want to arrive at a final reform process, should proposals be identified that merit reflection and have not been the subject of amendments in the Commission (in the Commission there has been no debate), if, if necessary, we re-admit some amendments in such a way as to guarantee everyone the right to speak and to propose.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u91	Senator Schifani, perhaps it is not clear: in order to do what you are asking me, if I only spent a minute reading each of the amendments tabled, it would take 85 million minutes, at least to understand what this is about. I would like these numbers to be perceived in their abhorrence and exceptionality: I should stop being the President and read 85 million amendments for seventeen years; at least I should suspend the work of this House and perhaps let them lead to the Vice Presidents. [[Applause]] I see that this solution finds acceptance. We are talking about seventeen years only to read, and then to assess the admissibility of the amendments. I would like to make it clear that there is an abnormity and exceptionality. We're arguing. And, since they will be accessible, I would like someone to cooperate in reading, which would involve one minute in amendment for 85 million amendments - I say no more - provided that you have the ability to read in one minute to understand what this is about in order to be eligible. The concept that I have expressed is the exceptionality, the impossibility to enter medias res in this respect. After that, since an admissibility has been made with regard to the other amendments, removed those 70 000 of it turns out, after the commendable gesture of withdrawal in reference to the first two articles, from both SEL and the League - it is really appreciated and appreciated - I hope that perhaps, in accordance with my decision, there may be a revisiting by the proposers also of those that are apparent from the Commission, because there remains a number of them not indifferent. The Commission's amendments, therefore, after the inadmissibility of Articles 1 and 2, are dealt with, but still in relation to the deadline for the final vote, which was set by the Conference of Leaders and which the President is obliged to enforce, having also been voted by several votes by the House. Therefore, my limit is not referring to the number of amendments, but it is that given by the House with its resolution and the will of the group leaders, who have decided it. If I had not had any limits, we could have stayed here for tens of years, even beyond the legislature, to examine and evaluate all the amendments tabled. My problem is that you set me a limit, which is that of October 13th. And, therefore, in relation to it, I have assessed what I can do to try to give the opportunity to debate and vote as much as possible. This is my assessment, which is based on the powers of the President to carry out the task entrusted to him by this House. AIROLA (M5S). The nice thing is that these gentlemen had given October 8th as a term!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u93	Senator Schifani, I assume you'd like to speak for further clarification. I appreciate your proposal, but...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u94	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) My effort is to be logical... President. In a collaborative logic. Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) ...in a logic that aims to foster a climate of assembly that allows us first of all to respect the timetable for the final vote and to organize a debate of merit and content, not obstructing. That is the logic that prompted me to move forward with my proposal, sharing your more than justified concern, Mr President, so that the mere analysis of millions of amendments, in order to identify the new proposal than the Commission, involves almost biblical times. So, by hanging up on what my fellow Senator Romani has said and calling for the Conference of Leaders to be convened - I do not think that, at the moment, a Conference of Leaders can unblock anything but, if we want to find a point of synthesis between majority and opposition in order to hold a real debate on the subject in this House, we must put in place all the efforts - I ask the colleagues of the League to suggest themselves to the Presidency, beyond the millions of amendments tabled, those seven, eight, nine or ten points which they consider to be right and important - we have already spoken about this at the Conference of Leaders - and they must be debated, so that we can concentrate on them. It is to my heart - and I believe that it is to the heart of the whole majority and of the House - that we can actually consume the activity of these days in a logic of comparison. For my part, there will always be the greatest effort to cooperate with the Presidency, so that this kind of climate can be established, because at the moment, with these terms and with the atmosphere that you breathe, we are rendering a service that is not commendable to the country. With regard to the approval of the reform, thankfully there is always a reading in the House of Deputies, but we hope to send a final text, in order to respect the time of approval. Therefore, in the face of such an unexpected and unpredictable scenario, Mr President, I trust in your wisdom and in the art of identifying new paths, even extra-regulatory ones, which, in the logic of a shared and constructive strategy, I believe must be experienced. I therefore appeal to colleagues in the League, who have tabled millions of amendments, to reflect on this idea, in order to concentrate their proposals on a package of amendments and, while respecting the final date, to engage in a real negotiation, parliamentary or extra-parliamentary (i.e. political). Mr President, we must ensure that we bring to this House a real debate, of content and proposals, and not just legal numbers, electronic numbers and hours that pass unnecessarily while we are discussing the new Constitutional Charter. Thank you, Mr President, for what you want to do. [[Senators Endrizzi and Martelli indicate they want to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u95	Since there are many requests to intervene, I will admit only one intervention for the 5 Star Movement Group. MARTELLI (M5S). He made Schifani talk twice and he doesn't want us to talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. One per group. The Leader spoke. MARTELLI (M5S). He's spoken twice, though. SANTANGELO (M5S). There is no number for speeches on the order of business! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes has already intervened on this point and Senator Endrizzi will now express himself. After that, I would try to limit the debate. If Senator Endrizzi wants to give the floor to Senator Martelli... Get everyone to talk! Read the Rules of Procedure. You have to make everyone talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, stay calm. I decide who needs to talk. Senator Endrizzi, you have the floor. It can also illustrate any problems of logarithms, of which we know Senator Martelli is an expert.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u96	Actually, I'm already thinking of what to say. Mr President, I have the greatest sympathy and sympathy for your position. While she was talking, I thought, "Ecce homo." However, rather than a crucifix, I was thinking of a person who was put on a straitjacket because of the condition of impossibility of maneuvering (without vulgar jokes about his state of health). We must, however, say things as they are. You said that 75 million amendments were not appropriate, but 500,000. We are not doing a sector study here, nor are we carrying out the functions of the Revenue Agency, but we are doing the change of the Constitution. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] I do not think that citizens would be able to understand whether we go as far as the metre, the cubic metre or the quintal on the amendments, because we have to reason on the subject. From his earlier words, it seems that the amendments have still been numbered, which - if I am correct - I believe means that a systemic assessment has been given to each of them, comparing them to each other and putting them in a logical order. Therefore, an assessment must have been made and, I do not know if this has happened in a minute, in a second or in a thousandth of a second, but - I repeat - an assessment must have been given. What you, Mr President, should consider - it is, in my view, simpler: either it is not true that - as has been said - the amendments have been examined, or something more can be done. Let us confine ourselves to the 500,000 amendments you consider appropriate. I have doubts that you can set a numerical bar and not in principle. If 500,000 amendments are appropriate, then it means that someone has forced and broken the Rules of Procedure, bringing something that could and should have been done to the Commission directly to the House. In fact, the dialogue needed to achieve a balance could be carried out there. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mario Mauro]] And I am referring to a balance not only between political forces (conveniences and bartering), but also with regard to the systemic architecture of the fundamental Charter and our democracy. Then I ask you to do the following. If 500,000 amendments are appropriate, please refer them back to the proper scope of the debate and analysis. They have already suggested how to answer me, but please pay attention. Although I do not have much faith in a positive acceptance of my request because of what has been so far, I still want to maintain confidence for the future. I would ask that the measure be returned to the Commission, where we still see ourselves in the eyes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Here - as I have already said - we are very far from understanding each other. And then President Zanda says well, but the truth must tell it all: otherwise, like the devil, he makes the pots, but not the lids. When I am told that an institution is being paralysed, this is because there is a gap in the Rules of Procedure. And we are talking about a regulation not of condominium, but of that of the Senate which, from a systemic point of view, is subordinate only to the Constitution. And, if there is a hole in the Rules of Procedure, we must intervene there, if not by summoning the Junta - which we have asked of you since before the summer - in order to find a criterion in which we can all recognize ourselves and which allows us to work, without compressing, however, the rights of oppositions. In Article 6 of the text that we are going to discuss, in fact, it is said that "the Regulations of the Chambers guarantee the rights of parliamentary minorities" and that "The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies govern the statute of opposition." If, therefore, we want to affirm this principle for the House which will be political tomorrow, today, that this House is still political - and it is a living god - we must not hold back? You understand, once again, the contradiction between the statement and the practice. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the return to the Commission, therefore, announces that no other shortcuts are admissible and that they have a shameful shadow on them. When I hear: "Save you, perhaps at your discretion, something that might make sense," we give the League the opportunity to say what it wants in exchange for withdrawing the amendments. We are saying this and also the withdrawal that you have declared commendable on the first articles, in the end, it sounds like that, in plain words to the citizens: the League has withdrawn the amendments referred to Articles 1 and 2, where there is the substantial "dirty" saying, however: "My guys, though, if you want to go deep, you have to give us something that we spend on the territories." I don't want to see a deal like this, I'm not saying it's done, I'm not even a suspect. It is up to you, then, now, to clear the field, but truly to you and only to you. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u97	Thank you. MARTELLI (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Before giving you the floor, Senator Martelli, inviting you to be brief in your speech, which will certainly be dense, I would like to give you a figure, which I asked the offices: the amendments received in the Commission and which came from it, after withdrawing those relating to Articles 1 and 2, remained in the number of 380,000, plus the 3,500 submitted in writing. This, then, is the budget on which we must discuss and which we must conclude within the deadlines set by the House for 13 October. BOTTICS (M5S). By the majority! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Fix yourself with the vote of the House. You have the floor, Senator Martelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u98	Then look, I will refer to Rule 55, but with one premise: in your opinion, is this how the law is administered? Imagine if a person, overweight of 50 kilos, the surgeon proposed cutting both legs, which make 50 kilos, rather than removing 50 kilos of fat. Does that sound the same to you? Obviously it isn't, but let me finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u99	Being a fat guy, you know what I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u100	[[Laughter.]] MARTELLI (M5S). Exactly. Then, precisely for this reason, one cannot take away a certain number of emblée, because so it becomes reasonable. Or, let's imagine that a lawyer has a defensive memory for his 80 million-page assistant; she says to him: "Let's pull them all away, except for the first 500,000, why does the same thing always repeat itself?" The certainty of the law of the defence, then, where does it go? He's gone. Here you have exactly the same principle: you are cutting away, without knowing what's inside, and this is wrong already in itself. Why? You went to read Rule 55 and, as usual, you look in the lines of the Rules of Procedure to find a solution that cannot be found in this way. So, since we're not in a common law regime where precedents do law, it doesn't work that way. However, every time a precedent comes out that makes jurisprudence, and therefore we will never have the certainty of this regulation, because every time the President of the Chamber comes up saying that a precedent of 1825 states a certain thing. This is not legal certainty. I will tell you more: both the rights of the majority and the opposition are disputed here, but most of all the interests of the entire House, the right of the whole House. If you decide to put a cutting line you do not know where, that is another reason why the right is harmed, because I have to know the number: for example, I have to know what is the maximum cholesterol I can have in the blood, what is the maximum concentration of lead or other substances in the water so that it is considered polluted or not drinkable. You have to give me a number. Can you not tell me that 500,000 amendments are good and that 85 million are too many, because where do I find the middle way? Do I make an arithmetic mean? So 43 million would be good? So, even in this case, the law fails. The right of the Assembly is the right of each senator to table the number of amendments he considers, provided that he does so in the right time, and this is a right of 321 persons. Then there is the desire (which is not a right) of the majority to bring home certain measures as long as it wants, and the majority is a minority, because it is not the totality. Then you restrict the right of this House to table amendments in favour of a majority wish to bring home something within the time limit. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You say that, under Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure, the President has the right - given the timetable - to cut at some point, because he (Senator Martelli points out Senator Zanda) asked to close by 13 October. It does not say in the Rules of Procedure that you can do this: it says that you can do certain things - for example - you cannot change the timetable. The best thing would be, therefore, to return to the Conference of the Leaders, which you can convene, and in that place to establish the matter. I say to you in the majority: since the reforms are being carried out together, why do you think they have tabled 80 million amendments? They did this because the reforms are being done together and the goods are 80 million amendments in exchange for something. So, if you fill your mouths with democracy, talk to those who have tabled so many amendments and see where they're going. This is called parliamentary dialectic, an expression that I hate but which I use this time. Do it instead of saying every time you do it together, you argue and talk. Do it! No, he doesn't: he gets up Zanda and says it's like this, and that's what we have to do. Does that sound like democracy to you? Me for nothing. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u101	Senator Martelli, in any case, the fact that 383,500 amendments still remain in the field is not negligible. MARTON (M5S). What do you do with the 80 million?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u104	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, you say that it would take 17 years to examine each of the various amendments for one minute. I used the algorithm and did the math: you would stay here 161 years if you devoted yourself to such activity 24 hours a day. And, therefore, I believe that, from a certain point of view, your answer is compatible with a correct position. Mr President, I must also say a few things to the majority. Obstructionism is not prohibited by the Constitution or by the Regulations, and it cannot be said that obstructionism is democracy when you are in opposition and that, instead, it is a subversive thing when you are in the majority, because I have suffered it for years with so many, so many amendments. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators, Mr Campanella, Mr Mussini and Mr Rizzotti]] TONINI (PD). And vice versa. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Of course, Senator Tonini. I also respond to the exception that has been raised from the electronic signature. Thank you for your position, Mr President, because I think it is correct, also because the amendments tabled in the Commission are not only on electronic support, but with the token they have a certified electronic signature. Therefore, if the credibility of the electronic signature is denied, then it must be removed from all public administration and made to disappear. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Mussini, Caliendo and Scibona]] Someone tells us (in particular Senator Russo and his Parent Company) that each document must certainly be signed by the person concerned and delivered. I remember not too long ago that the motions for a majority resolution to the DEF were sent by fax and three different resolutions had three signatures of the same people clearly apocryphal, because they were made by different people. So, we don't take classes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mangili]] Is the number of amendments 85 million abnormal? Maybe. But in your opinion, Mr President, is it not an abnormal government that refuses to speak with its own majority and with the opposition, which brings a constitutional reform measure to this House after we have just begun the debate in the Commission? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Campanella]] We did not even have to explain the amendments. No one has obstructed: what the majority wanted has been done. In the face of behavior of this kind and the cross-breathing of italicum and constitutional reform, I believe that there is an authoritarian drift behind it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] and whatever doesn't become abnormal anymore. In the past, someone shot to defend democracy in this country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Campanella]] Was it abnormal to resist and defend democracy? I was very impressed by a speech by Mr Boschi, not here in this House (because I am never impressed here) but perhaps during a political initiative, in which he spoke of exceptional solutions. When I hear about exceptional solutions, the special courts of twenty years can only come to my mind. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Bottic and Campanella Senators]] I was very concerned about hearing the same positions on the other side of the ocean by the President-in-Office of the Council. Senator Paolo Romani says he is concerned; so am I, but I am certainly not surprised, because the thing was already prepared. You, Mr President, rightly commemorating the poor Mr Ingrao this morning mentioned your words: They want to tear the Constitution apart. We must not tear up the Constitution, but we must not even tear up the Regulations. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] who, as Senator Endrizzi recalled before, have an immediate lower rank. Today we have spoken of inadmissibility; tomorrow we will speak of inadmissibility; the day after tomorrow I see the kangaroo jumping; in the end with two or three votes do we approve of constitutional reform? Let's put a good trust on it and close it up! However, I would like to express my solidarity with you, Mr President, because, in over twenty years in Parliament, I had heard from Palazzo Chigi the date and time of the convening of the Conference of the Captains Group. You're from the LN-Aut group. Shame! Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Does Palazzo Chigi tell us the date by which to go to the Chamber and approve the Constitution? [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] Soon I expect Renzi's hand to pop up at the time of the vote, which goes into the hole in the voting mechanism and votes for me. Mr President, I understand you, I respect your position and I thank you for the positions you have taken, but from now on the regulation of the Marquis del Grillo, which, as everyone knows, was released while everyone else was arrested, said: I'm me and you're not a dick. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Scibona]] I apologize for the word, but it is Alberto Sordi who said so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u105	Senator Calderoli, as President, after taking this decision, I feel obliged to invite you to reflect on these 380,000 amendments that have been accepted. [[Comments from LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] You're from the LN-Aut group. On these, too? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In order to be able to focus them, as in Articles 1 and 2, on the very important elements of the debate. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Resign, Fat, resign. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Calderoli, I've already made my decision, so we're moving on anyway. However, it would be preferable to know what the important amendments are.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u106	Mr President, you have made a request and I assure you that I will give you my utmost thought on this matter. The night brings advice, maybe by myself, and we'll see what will come of it. However, I welcome the fact that you have declared those 385 000 amendments admissible. You said they were admitted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u107	Receivable.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u108	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). No, ma'am, there's the shorthand report. His is a Freudian slip. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u109	We proceed to the examination of the articles, in the text including the amendments made by the Chamber of Deputies. Let us now turn to the explanation of the amendments tabled in Article 1. CASTALDI (M5S). But what amendments?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u110	Before explaining the amendments to Article 1, Mr President, I need to reflect. AIROLA (M5S). That's surreal!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u111	Mr President, after what I have seen today I do not want to speak, because what has happened today is a sad page. AIROLA (M5S). Stop! But what illustrations are they?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u112	Mr President, I followed the debate very closely. We are at a new stage in the Rules of Procedure, in the sense that, in view of the single assessment that the Presidency has made so far, it has put forward a new assessment. After the inadmissibility for numerical correctness, we must now wait until we know which amendments are acceptable from the point of view of content. We are therefore perhaps going to come up with a vain illustration, because we do not yet know, of all the amendments that we have tabled, which she considered acceptable, from the point of view of admission to the debate, and which did not. I would just like to make one amendment, which is most likely to be considered inadmissible (and therefore perhaps my work will be in vain), which, however, would have avoided everything that we are witnessing in all these weeks and months. I will never tire of repeating that, in the context of a substantial amendment of the Constitution in several parts, it is demonstrated, in the debate this morning, that the terminal of a long debate cannot be held in the seat of Parliament according to the mechanisms of Article 138, but only in a place equal to the original one that gave rise to the Constitution, that is, a seat of the constituent Assembly. Therefore, my amendment, which would naturally lead to a revisiting of the whole debate, once again proposes to this House the wise opportunity to set aside, to stop on a reform that we will then see, later, is not even understandable from the literal point of view, given the contradiction, between one paragraph and the other, of what after bitter debates and harsh comparisons will come out. The amendment, that is, proposes to entrust the revision of our Constitution to a new constituent Assembly. Only in this way can we say that we have renewed the Constitution in the continuity of methods and in the objective need to adapt it to the times. If we do not enter into this order of ideas, we will come to very often incomprehensible debates even outside, such as today's. Why are we discussing today the presentation of 85 million amendments? We get to talk about it because that absolutely democratic process of debate on the matter that had to be done has not been done. However, we have noted a further difference between the first and third readings, in our insistence on the methodology set out in Article 138. At first reading we had two rapporteurs: one by majority and one by minority. In the second reading this was not allowed either. At the second reading, we went on without wishing, however, to arrive at a debate already concluded in the Commission, in order to bring the debate to Parliament directly, with the force of time. It is, therefore, a series of forcings which then lead to these consequences, Mr President. In fact, such a profound and complex revision of the Constitution cannot be dealt with in procedural segments, since it is a whole procedure - excuse me if I may stress this - that perhaps she should have assessed from the outset, acting, as she knows, with her moral persuasion, towards the protagonists in the Commission so that this debate would come to an end in all its components of dialectic and dialogue. This has not happened and this is the consequence, because the consequences are not impromptu but are written when we underestimate the importance of the topic being addressed and the methodology with which this topic is addressed. Therefore, on Article 1 I merely reiterate my conviction, naturally contained in an amendment tabled by me, that only a constituent Assembly, elected among other things with the pure proportional system (i.e. representative of all the political-social tensions and ideals present in our popular fabric), can address the issue of the revision of the Constitution in all its parts or even only in the Second Part, but in the overall game of weights, counterweights and balances indispensable in every democracy. I therefore invite my colleagues, even if out of maximum time (but we, as I said in my speech the other day, live in a country where the Cesarini area is the rule in order to reach the final solutions), to stop because we still have time to do so, avoiding a solution that will not only be traumatic from the point of view of political relations between majority and opposition, but that will produce above all a work absolutely negative for the future of the democratic life of our country. [[Applause from Senator Alicata.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u113	Mr President, I am speaking very briefly about the three amendments I have tabled on this article. I would like to explain that the aim of the amendment is absolutely without prejudice to the robust, solid and convinced principle of support for overcoming equal bicameralism. Through these amendments, I intend to bring back a part of the power, which is now exclusively conferred on the House, in an equal way, for the legislative functions that compete, also to the Senate with reference to two articles of the Constitution. I refer to Article 32, which oversees a matter of particular importance, in keeping with the issues of the right to health and mental and physical integrity, and Article 119 of the Constitution, as regards the allocation of competences in the field of financial autonomy. I believe that the need to extend equal legislation to the two chambers is a guarantee for the better maintenance of this reform and also for the principles of social cohesion which, on these two aspects, often lead to elements of great tension which could, in this proposed amending mode, be overcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u114	Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to express our refusal to join in this discussion of democracy at the square metre or the quintal. We believe that the amendments cannot be considered on the basis of the number, but should be considered on the basis of the substance and what they propose. We have also tabled a very limited number of amendments, all of which have been thought about in substance, all with responsibility and attention to the overall structure of the Constitution. We cannot accept that today we are debating admissibility and admissibility on the basis of a quantitative criterion and that we do not want to compress the illustration in a flat-rate way, in a single sitting, in a fruit salad that ultimately loses sense and makes us lose our sense of direction. So we will not intervene in the amendments, giving up the time we would have available, as a demonstration, if we still need it, that we are not obstructing it. If you want to call it trenches, fine; but that's something else. We are here in defence of values, of legal certainty, of the correctness and transparency of relations between political forces; we are fighting against the dictatorship of the majority, which today has struck another decisive blow. So I'm gonna stop and give up the time I have. We will then see each other again, in order to present to the citizens the nature of our proposals, one by one, when voting on each individual amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u115	Mr President, in order to explain this part of the amendments, I find it useful to refer to some of the elements that have emerged in the debate today. However, I start from the amendments and from the subject of Article 1, because it proposes this constitutional anxiety which constitutes the necessity of overcoming bicameralism as equals; because of this, therefore, it results in a necessary change of functions and a further breakdown of the status quo, imposing the image of a Senate of the self-governments. The problem is that, in the transition from bicameralism to a new model of bicameralism, it has been said very clearly what is meant to be left behind and it has not been said with equal clarity which model we intend to move towards. So we are moving, precisely in the development of the functions of the new Senate, from a bicameralism equal to an unconcluded bicameralism: a bicameralism, that is, that does not even respect the model that is announced and the extent and importance of the propositions that should be obtained through this task. Why is it necessary to overcome equal bicameralism? Because the bicameralism of equality is slow, that is, it imposes, in the issues relating to the discussion of the norms, a time too long and moreover can be used artificially by the oppositions, which in fact would lead to not concluding the legislative path of several measures. I think it is useful here to refer to the category you announced in your conclusions this morning. You used the term "substantial." Now, Mr President, is bicameralism essentially not effective because it takes too long or is it not effective because for almost twenty years only the instrument of the decree-law has been used to carry out parliamentary paths? It is not true that equal bicameralism is not effective because it takes too long. In fact, precisely because only the instrument of the decree-law is used has a yield, in the last legislature, not more than 109 days in the passages between Chamber and Senate. And here we come to the point, always from the point of view of the substantial vocabulary. Why then do we want to overcome the bicameralism of equality? It is more appropriate to marry him to the coherence of the electoral law that has been developed for this new circumstance and to marry him with the consistency of that law because the stronger the move of the taking by the Executive on the other two powers of the State, the legislative one and the judicial one. The consistency of the norm is achieved by majorities and by what is overshadowed in the mechanisms of Italicum. But as I wish to remain on the grounds for which I have tabled amendments, I note that they not only do not take away functions from the Senate, but they try to marry the functions of the new Senate with what the majority intended to say when they say that this Senate is the Chamber of Autonomies. If the new Senate is the Chamber of Autonomies and if, as Mr Finocchiaro's amendment proposes, it is the connecting body between the State and the territorial authorities, why then do we confirm with intact function the State-Regions Conference? And if the Senate cannot be the place of negotiation between the State and the Regions because there is another body that is, what does the Senate do? What's left for him to do? Or better still, even looking at the proposals put forward by my colleague Finocchiaro, in this amendment that partially should return to the Senate what the House had removed from it, the image of a railway after-work unfortunately does not go away and makes almost tragicomic the permanence of the new institution in the warp of our institutional fabric. The amendments are therefore intended to return to the Senate but to act as the Senate, not because it serves as a complement to a device that no other purpose has but to make our institutions functional to the draft power contained in the electoral law. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u116	Mr President, the amendments I have tabled will of course not receive attention, just as this speech is not getting attention in this House and has not received attention the debate that has just taken place, which has brought us back to a moment in our institutional history which I consider to be particularly serious. The amendments I have tabled want to maintain those clear and distinct roles that you have spoken to us about, in the words of Ingrao and in the splendid speech that you have given today, in which you have spoken about the strength of Parliament, the strength of a Parliament that enjoys a Government that is strong and not for manoeuvres like those we are witnessing today. In the explanation of my amendments, I would also like to draw attention to the great concern about what is happening, about this accumulation of precedents, Mr President. (At 2 p.m.) (Mussini followed). A build-up of precedents that have no similar, from the Esposito method forward. It is a constant manipulation that puts us in front of a call to responsibility. A political part, of which you are quite rightly aware of the demands, has in itself the abhorrence that you have invoked for the decision you have taken, has in itself an abhorrence which is in the very constitution of your majority. This abnormity of the number of amendments actually reflects the abnormity of what is being accessed in this House for what is the fundamental law of our country and that is the Constitution. If you stick the dog and that bite you, is the dog biting you or yours beating him? Here there was then the renunciation of a high political mediation; the renunciation of also, in its less accountantistic and more content force, the role of second office of the State, forcing, therefore, the forces that here, within this Chamber, had the duty to confront the contents, to confront the contents. On the other hand, it has accepted the accountantistic vision, and also quite pathetic, of a majority that, while outside speaks of digital signature and digitalization as a solution to all the problems and bureaucratic delays of the administration, in reality here appeals to concepts that are now clearly outdated, only to find that 'escamotage, that strategy, that catch that allows to score a goal and to give a victory. So you lose everything that instead is the role of politics. This Parliament has not been turned into bivouacs, but it surrounds us with the absolute void, which is perhaps even worse than those bivouacs that at the time threatened the forerunner of this style of government. The words of Ingrao put us before a reflection: instead of being dwarves on the shoulders of the giants, here only dwarves remain. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u117	Madam President, the three amendments I have tabled to Article 1 propose, in various ways, to increase the functions of the future Senate, with a twofold objective. The first is to extend the equal legislative competence between the Senate and the Chamber to all matters included in Titles I and II of the Part before the Constitution (which - I recall - deal respectively with Title I civil relations and Title II ethical-social relations). In a future Senate representing the territorial realities, however, these issues all touch on citizenship and the extension of equal legislation, I believe, is necessary. The other objective is to restore the competence of the Senate as the main representative of relations between the State and the European Union, with particular attention to respect for the principle of subsidiarity, also in order to rebalance Article 1 with the provisions of Article 10, as amended by the other branch of Parliament. The new Article 10 includes, in fact, two-cameral equality legislation, on which, moreover, a principle of fiscality has been introduced - and I quote - the general rules, the forms and terms of Italy's participation in the training and implementation of European Union legislation and policies. This principle is therefore not compatible with the changes made to Article 1 by the House, by which the Senate would become the link between the State and the other constituent bodies of the Republic, and between the latter and the European Union. On the other hand, we must provide for a Senate that is a link between the State, the other constituent bodies of the Republic and the European Union, in a balanced manner.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u118	The remaining amendments are set out, subject to the request made by Senators Stefano and Uras to explain their amendments later.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u119	Let us now turn to the explanation of the amendments tabled in Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u120	My amendment to Article 2, which may even appear to be an ultroneo, a surplus, only tends to specify that the senators remain in office until the new senators are proclaimed. Given that - in the light of the provisions of the transitional rule and given that amendments are likely to be tabled in this respect, which will be supported by the majority - an indirect election is envisaged, with ratification by the Regional Council, this amendment avoids creating a vacuum. Maybe someone will give me the rule for the extension, but the amendment only makes clear that even when the senator no longer holds the office of regional councillor, he will remain in office in this House. In fact, it may happen that a regional council, during the transitional phase, is late, if the Region does not legalize in this matter, or because it must ratify an election with the list. In that case there will be a period of time when the Regional Council has not ratified the election of the new senator and when the outgoing senator will no longer be a member of this House. If the delay occurs in one or more regions, perhaps populous, we may have an Assembly with a significantly reduced quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u121	Madam President, in explaining the amendments to Article 2 to my first signature, I will say that this is a group of amendments which seeks to restore the text originally adopted by the Senate. We have done an analysis of the text, as amended by the House of Deputies, and we have had to prepare 61 amendments to bring the text back to the one approved by the Senate at first reading. This is in order to avoid any doubt that today - and this is not my case, because my personal position with absolute disregard for this reform is known - the Forza Italia Group can vote against this text - I hope and indeed I am sure it will - but is accused of having voted in favour of it at the previous reading. Many people fill their speeches by talking about "double conformance," perhaps without even understanding what it means, from the substantive point of view, especially for a constitutional law. Therefore, the amendments tabled to Article 2 show that there is no "double compliance" between the text originally hesitated by the Senate and the text hesitated by the House of Deputies. It will therefore take 61 amendments, all of which I give to illustrate, in a single context, to bring the text back to the dictation that came out of the Senate at first reading. If this were to be the case, then the question could be raised for our Group, which at the time voted in favour at first reading, whether or not to vote in favour again, despite any changes to the overall political framework. This amending proposal of ours is therefore a means of eliminating any doubt. Among these amendments which should bring the text back to the way the Senate hesitated in its time is one on the famous paragraph 5 of Article 2, which has triggered all the debates even within the majority. I remember that the Senate decided to insert paragraph 5, establishing that the senators are chosen in the Regional Councils, and that then the House considered to modify by replacing the word "nei" with the word "dai". This is substantial: it is intuitive how this difference is substantial. If the text approved by the Senate were to be restored, it is clear that the intention would be to not proceed with the direct election of the senators, on which we are absolutely in favour and on which - I repeat - the agreement was made within the majority; however much we have read, the text would be absolutely incomprehensible and unworkable, but we will talk about this in the course of the votes on the individual amendments. In addition, a specific one, which I believe is necessary, would also be appropriate. It is true that this text does not want to touch on the fundamental principles of the Constitution, but in fact it cannot be done without it, and it is therefore right that these changes should be made clear. Since the Republics existed, popular sovereignty has been expressed in every State in the direct election of the Houses - one or two of them - by citizens. Therefore, if indirect election for the Senate is to be introduced, it is necessary to amend Article 1 of the Constitution and to specify that popular sovereignty is expressed directly or indirectly, i.e. even by second-degree elections. If this were not to be done, then it would remain unequivocal (for the history, culture and everything that has happened in our country and that happens in the Republics) that even the Senate must be elected directly and therefore the indirect election of the Senate would become incompatible with Article 1 of the Constitution. This is the meaning of an amendment of mine which, in addition to restoring the original text approved by the Senate, also introduces an amendment to Article 1 of the Constitution. For the rest, Mr President (I am addressing the offices in particular, for the sake of clarity), I reserve the right to speak in the course of the proceedings on Article 31, amending Title V of Part II of the Constitution, and then on the article governing the election of members of the Constitutional Court. These will be the last two speeches I will make when I explain the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u122	Madam President, I am not the first signatory of amendments, but I am speaking in place of my group's colleagues. Madam President, I really don't know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u123	Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u124	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, I understand what we're talking about, but I'm referring to the substance: in theory we're talking about Article 2. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The substance is in Article 2. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). The substance is not in the discussion, because if every rule is overwhelmed, Article 2 and the Constitution itself are also useless. If one who has the strength in his hand uses it without restraint and does not apply any rule, norm and custom, what are we talking about? Let us abolish the Constitution itself, as we are already doing so. The first paragraph of Article 72 of the Constitution provides that any draft law shall be examined by the Commission and the Assembly. However, the Commission has not examined the measure in question. The paradox is that since the Commission has not examined it, there is no right in this House to table amendments because someone has tabled too many. Tomorrow, someone could agree with the government, in fact, in agreement with the majority (in theory, this is not about the government, but we know very well that it is an act of government empire). BULGARRELLI (M5S). And not this time! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). There is someone who even insinuates that it is this time, but in any case it is clear that it is possible that it will happen. So is there anything the government wants to approve without discussing it? Very well, someone presents those famous algorithms, then we have to establish, because we don't know what the limit is: 500,000 was fine? What is it, 501,000 that's too much? 600,000? When do you touch the seven digits of the million? You don't know. I read the shorthand account of the speech in which the President declared that it was inadmissible - if I understood correctly, because frankly it was not very clear, or at least I did not fully understand it - of all the amendments tabled to the House. Therefore, there is no debate in the Commission and we are based in this House on those of the Commission. That is really paradoxical. It would be like saying that tomorrow, since the Senate will no longer have a voice, except in the changes of the Constitution, we can say that, since the Senate has not discussed it, we do not even discuss it in the Chamber: it is the same criterion, that is, a demencial criterion, contrary to every rule.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u125	Excuse me, Senator, to be precise - even those who listen, but perhaps later in the report it will be clearer - the President said that all the amendments tabled on a computer basis were inadmissible; all the others were before us and the debate in this House; there would be no need for all the amendments to be declared inadmissible. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I get it. Thank you, Mr President, for your explanation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then there will be the screening of eligibility, which is another issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u126	Of course: do not think that this is enough; then you have to delete others, with other reasons or pretexts. So it's just the ones presented on computer support? And this, at a time when in this House, with the highest solemnity and unanimous vote, is it said that we must dematerialize? "Our goal" - said the President of the other branch of Parliament - but here we make analogies when it suits us - "is a zero-paper House." Zero paper, therefore zero amendments, the two things go together: if you present them on paper, it is not good, because it damages the environment; if you present them on electronic media, it is not good, because then one thing pulls the other and maybe there are also many. I know that 85 million amendments are certainly an excess, but here we have fallen into the opposite. I had imagined that someone, by making a really huge force, would apply the Rules of Procedure of the House, where it provides for the possibility of imposing a maximum number of amendments, with the only constraint placed by the Rules - and higher limits can be found by the Presidency - to guarantee for each Group at least two amendments for each article. We've gone further here. At least, there would have been a real support and some piece of paper, with, somewhere, a symbol or the coat of arms of the Italian Republic, which said the same thing: it would have been to apply to the Senate things of the House, which has already been done, when it was convenient, in other circumstances. Here, however, according to what I read, we take Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure (of which, frankly, I thought I already had a knowledge, but I said to myself, "maybe I missed a few words") and I read it again: there is absolutely nothing that even suggests the possibility of excluding even a sub-amendment, other than 85 million. If we move from one surplus to another, then we understand the excess, which is already the previous one, so that in the Commission it is not that we did not vote because the amendments were 500 000 - in the past we have always tried to vote, because then there can be withdrawals, as indeed happened - but because the majority had no majority. This is the only reason, that is, the convenience of the majority or, better to say, of the Government or, better to say, of Mr. Matteo Renzi, the only man in charge. That is why we did not vote in the Commission. That is a coercion. This was the tremendous forcing, the 85 million are a response to it. There could have been another answer to this, Mr President, namely a proposal to change the Rules of Procedure by introducing a rule similar to that of the House, which I do not like, but it is clear that in the face of certain excesses it would have been justifiable. What was the problem? This amendment to the Rules of Procedure could take two weeks, also because there is no poem to write, it is already written in the Rules of Procedure of the House, so it was enough to copy it. The Rules of Procedure were amended, with the rules laid down by the Rules of Procedure, and then there was a thing that respected the rules, because it was frightening not that 85 million amendments were deleted, but that the rules were deleted only for matters of convenience, in the name of the fact that the Conference of Leaders, by a narrow majority, established on 13 October as the final date. Since the Conference of Leaders by majority (close or wide) can also establish that the final vote can be done in ten minutes (if you find in the Rules of Procedure something that prevents me from telling), therefore, if in ten minutes you set the final vote you can neither speak nor declare the vote, because the Conference of Leaders has established it, the five gentlemen who I believe are the representatives of the majority groups have established it. In the future Chamber he will be a person, he will be the Leader of the Democratic Party (probably it would be normal for the President of the Council to do so in order to incorporate, but so much he will be his designated). Therefore, this person alone sets the final date and on the basis of this one can be allowed to make some formal vows if the thing pleases "his majesty," otherwise, if it is not so, nothing is done. Today we are establishing this, other than just one House and the new ways of reading! That's what we're establishing! It is a monstrous and totally unacceptable thing, not because of its content, but because of its method, because if the only criterion is the convenience of the majority, any excess is possible. When it is said that this reform will create conditions for the regime from today, it is wrong, because the regime already exists. BULGARRELLI (M5S). That's right. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). It is a government that does not respect the rules, that asphaltes them, that laughs over us: with a laugh we will cancel the amendments. I imagined that this was an overwhelming, unacceptable smear made to please the fat audience (I apologize), the uncultivated audience, instead it was just so, with a laugh. But how? There is a rule that says to do in a certain way. Who cares? The rules apply to others, they always apply to others; the rules apply when it suits you. We hear talk about contracts that have to be done well, that have to be done according to the criteria; the simplest thing is not to do the contract, so you immediately give it to the friends of the government and someone pockets the billions while the municipalities have to suffer by doing contracts for one hundred euros. This is what we are introducing today. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u127	Madam President, here again in Article 2 I have tabled three amendments which, in various forms, propose two objectives. Meanwhile, regarding the composition of the Senate, they propose to eliminate the representation of the mayors within the Senate. I do not know whether these amendments will be considered admissible in the face of the situation linked to the famous paragraphs of Article 2, but the proposal is to remove the mayors, because they are elected by citizens as directors and not as legislators, who will come to be in the future Senate; they carry typical interests of their own city and certainly not extended to a territorial area such as that of the Region. They are elected by different voters than those of regional councillors and also of parliamentarians, as far as the election of mayors is concerned foreign citizens, as far as the countries of the European Union are concerned. Therefore, for a number of reasons, I believe that this representation should be eliminated. The other objective of these amendments is to ensure that there is respect for the will of the people in the indication between the regional councillors and only among those, since they will have to become future senators, thus not leaving to other logics, typical of party balances or other far worse ones such as the search for parliamentary immunity, the indication of future senators. I hope there will be a vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u128	The remaining amendments are set out. I remember very well that, after the President's decision, we are debating 383,500 amendments. Let us now turn to the explanation of the amendments tabled in Article 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u129	Madam President, the point on this article is also the same, but in advance I do not intend to speak on all the articles. I would like to develop the subject. I have yet to reread the report where it specifically says that it is not the fact that these amendments have been submitted in computer-based form that has led to the decision to declare them inadmissible, but it is their enormous number. This means that if five hundred had been presented on computer support and an excessive number had been presented on paper, those on computer support and not those on paper, to referees of "Your Excellence," as reported in the cries prominently reported in the first chapter of "I Promisi Spousi" by Alessandro Manzoni. So we have the arbitrary one more time. The Constitution, the laws, at least in this city since the time of the twelfth tables, have the merit that are written and that should apply to all. It is normal, it is not agreeable, but it is in things to try to stretch them a little more than here and a little more than there, but to ignore them totally is to wipe out the rule of law, the certainty of the law in every respect, because if you violate the right of the Senate to discuss a measure according to the procedures provided for in the Constitution and its Rules, you explain to me what other right it should hold? Perhaps the becero populism of these times tells us: Who cares about the Senate? It's caste, and things like that. Of course, if he is not able to defend the presumed caste, what about the citizen and the individual entrepreneur? If even the Senate is taken away legal certainty in a spectacular, open, certified way, in front of the cameras that transmit to some enthusiast who listens to us or to someone who listens to us on the radio, do you explain to me by what way and criterion the right of any citizen can still hold? I am referring to rights of any kind: to a fair trial, to private property, not to be refused an application equal to other applications accepted for a building permit, for an entry to a kindergarten, for anything. Yet it is even done with - I think - wanted evidence, to make clear to everyone who commands. If it were done secretly, at least the forms should be respected. No, you don't! It's done openly. One day those who appeal to a judge, to the mayor, to the President of the Republic or to the President of the Council will not be able to say that the law says that and that he has a right. I report the anecdote of that farmer in a suburb of Berlin who sued the king, who had closed his pre-existing mill because it disturbed the peace of his castle. This farmer went to Berlin, saying "There will also be a judge in Berlin." And did the judge in Berlin judge on the basis of force, that is, whether a miller was stronger than the king, or on the basis of law? This miller was counting on the judge to judge on the basis of the law and, therefore, that even a humble miller could win over the king. And in fact, he got the better of it. Here, however, the law no longer exists gentlemen, so, even if there is the judge, there is no law, because the law no longer counts anything, but the right of the strongest counts. This will be the subject of the referendum. This must be the subject of the referendum. Now, no matter what happens, I think this reform will pass because, at most, at some point the government will be able to go "under" in the votes. But where is it written in the Rules of Procedure that a vote can be cancelled if it is bad for the majority? Nowhere. But nowhere is it written that one can skip the Commission's passage and that one can also skip the examination of one amendment by the House. Therefore, if any vote goes wrong it will be repeated, because obviously the Senate was wrong. Didn't the Senate vote according to the boss's wishes? Evidently, he was wrong. It is already important that senators should not be admitted for compulsory health treatment, as was the case in the Soviet Union for dissidents. Assuming that I can hold the referendum, I predict with certainty that during the referendum campaign, and first, there will be every form of forced force to try to win it, because the post office becomes bigger and bigger, as well as the Government's temptation to implement the most monstrous and unthinkable forces and anti-democratic procedures. However, within the framework of the freedom that we will still be voting for that referendum, we will be able to choose for the rule of law and a constitution that possibly applies to everyone, and not only to the poor. A law that defends everyone and not just someone. A law that applies to everyone and not just to someone. This will be the subject of the referendum. That is why I do not see any difficulty in supporting, for this referendum, the same reasons for a "no" as great as Italy, while being in mutual company with political forces that think it in a hugely different way on many points. All the true center-right is against this rule but, inevitably, we will be allies with the other forces that are voting against it. It is normal, as the very powerful and current Councillor of the President-in-Office would say, because, when it comes to fighting for some rule to be respected (and then we will establish what the rules are), every person, even the lords of the majority, would have the deepest duty to be in that battle. Even if it's about turning against your own party leader, what can happen? At most, you won't be rebranded! Or do you think you're running again if you all bend your heads to this country's new aspirant? In fact, I think he's done sucking, because he's already sucked everything. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u130	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u131	Let us now turn to the explanation of the amendments tabled in Article 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u132	Madam President, before I explain my amendment, I just wanted to reply to Senator Malan. The real reason for the referendum will be to send 300 senators home or not. That, at least, is my idea. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Not just senators. Members who do nothing, too! BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, but the number of Members is not changed... Madam President, in Rule 7 I have tabled an amendment which seeks to supplement what was planned at first reading in this House with the approval of an amendment of mine which included in Article 64 of the Constitution a concept already contained in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. I am referring to the fact that Members of Parliament have a duty to participate in the meetings of this House and in the work of the Commissions. At first reading I tried to incorporate this concept, which is fundamental to me, since it is also the duty of the Member of Parliament to attend the proceedings of this House and to participate in those of the Commissions, possibly actively contributing to it, by providing for a law that would determine the cases of forfeiture due to unjustified and repeated absence of parliamentary work. This proposal of mine was also included in a bill, the Senate Act 1427, at my first signature. With this amendment I hope that there will be a willingness to incorporate what I also have the pleasure of seeing written in this provisional Constitution, otherwise I am sorry, because I am an accomplice in having inserted something abnormal in the Constitution, because it provides for a duty to participate in the proceedings but, if this is disregarded, there is no consequence. It seems to me in this case that I have put something in the constitution that is monco. I think this is a concept of common sense. I have come to realize, from my first experience in Parliament, that parliamentary activity cannot actually be considered equal to any work, but it cannot even be allowed to a Member of Parliament to remain in office with the ninety-nine comma something percent absent. Therefore, this amendment, which refers to these cases which result in the forfeiture of a senator, could be regarded as cases of absence justified by prolonged illness, for which there must be a justification. In 2016, not so much because of the wind of anti-politics but because of normal considerations coming from the citizens, we will have the opportunity to give an answer in this regard and to ensure that Members of Parliament should at least try to be present in the work of both the Commissions and those of this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. Let us now turn to the explanation of the amendments tabled in Article 10. BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I have tabled a number of amendments to Rule 10. One of these provides that the fourth paragraph of Article 70 of the Constitution introduces a provision that allows the Senate to submit its amendments within fifteen days instead of within ten days, present, among other things, to the next paragraph; in fact, the following paragraph 5 provides for this period of time in the case of draft laws referring to Article 81 of the Constitution. So this is a question of timing uniformity. I then tabled amendments to ensure that the House of Deputies could not comply with the Senate's amendments only after a more qualified majority was reached. An amendment therefore provides that the House may not conform to the proposals for amending the Senate with a two-thirds majority, while a subsequent amendment provides that the House may not comply with a three-fifth majority. I have referred to what is happening in other countries, for example in Germany; according to a card of the Senate Studies Service, a majority of two thirds is expected also in the Lower House of Russia. I think that, after eliminating the CNEL (which is now considered useless by more people), we run the risk of establishing a new one. If this Senate is certainly not a Senate of guarantees, but it will be a Senate of the autonomous, at least the House takes due account of what the Senate should propose and, if you wish to impose on these proposals for modification, do so by at least a two-thirds majority or three-fifths majority. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. The amendments tabled to Article 12 are set out. Let us now turn to the explanation of the amendments tabled in Article 13.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u133	Madam President, I would like to thank Senator Battista, who has given a summary of what will be the slogan that he apparently will support (and not just him), namely that the referendum will be based on the alternative of sending three hundred and twenty senators home or not. This will be the referendum. There is a small problem: the six hundred and thirty Members, a specially exaggerated number who want to leave to the House, what are they going to do about it? That's the real problem. If they are not doing anything, assuming that then the Senate is not abolished (which we would also be in favour of doing, having tabled amendments to this effect), however the Senate will not enter into normal legislation. It will certainly exist, so that all the structures will be there; instead there will be no so-called senators, because they will be replaced by some regional advisors, who will also make senators. It seems that the Regional Councillor is a difficult job, if it is to do it badly and, probably, it is hoped that the Regional Councillors will also decide nothing. Some will come here with a completely nebulous criterion, especially in the light of the promises that have been made to appease the internal minority of the Democratic Party; the Senate will count for nothing in normal legislation. But what will the House count? The House will have the sole responsibility of the Parent Company, which, by analogy with what we have done today, will be able to ask for a measure to be brought to the Chamber by a certain date and, on the basis of that date, it will be established that only a ridiculous number of amendments can be voted on. Already today the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber provide that the amendments may be at least two for each Group for each article. Of course, there is nothing to prevent the adoption of measures consisting of a single article. Here, on constitutional reform, it was uncomfortable to do so, because a Constitution of just one article for now - I repeat, for now - has been considered beyond the brazenness that however has great potential; but how much financial have we seen, to the truth not only of this Government, constituted of a single article? One article, two amendments per Group. As the Groups will in turn be very few, also because of this electoral law, within ten minutes any measure will be approved by decision of a person; formally the Leader of the hegemony party, who will have won the elections, perhaps with 25% of the votes of that 50% of Italians who go to vote. I must say, moreover, that with these reforms the desire of Italians not to go and vote, thanks also to the complacent collaboration of so many media, because it is clearly said that the Senate counts nothing and the House counts the same, because it decides only one. It only decides one because so "he" changes things. Of course, it changes things by increasing taxes, increasing unemployment, increasing legal uncertainty and reducing Italy to count nothing, nothing at all on the international front. Simply see what happens these days: we discuss how to combat ISIS, which is a few kilometers from the territory of our country and a few hundred kilometers from Rome and which has repeatedly threatened Italy. Well, the summit to discuss what to do with ISIS at European Union level sees the participation of France, Germany and Great Britain, which are three, four or five times more than we are from Libya, where ISIS lies. But this summit also counts little, because they decide everything, if they succeed, Obama and Putin. These grand results are achieved thanks to the fact that there is only one man in command, who, when very structured motions for resolutions were presented in this House to give him an address at European Union level, had his Minister give an opinion against relations with Parliament, without any explanation, to all the proposals tabled, except that of the majority, who regulatedly said: Hear the statements of the President of the Council, approve them. The same fate had, of course, the motion for a resolution which asked not to unilaterally desist from the - ruinous for us - sanctions against Russia, but to take a position in the European Union so that it, as a whole, would take a stand in this direction: rejected. With the fine result that we rely nothing on international decisions that concern us in the first place and, secondly, the security of the entire continent. These are the good results of man only in command. All this, however, as my colleague has said, in the name of the'so we send home three hundred twenty senators', while above all we send home the opinion of 50 million citizens, who do not know how else they will express their vote with the Constitution that they want to draw if they do not vote - look a bit - for Parliament. In fact, it was not intended to introduce the direct election of the President of the Republic, on which we would agree and which would impose balances. No: it has been pretended to leave the Constitution as it is, changing it to its substance, i.e. removing any kind of balance where balance is the fundamental aspect of democracy. I would say that a tyranny with the balance of powers is better than a democracy without it. True, a tyranny with a balance would no longer be tyranny, but it might be the case. After all, all constitutional monarchies are a sort of tyranny, because there is a lord (in Greek τύραννος) who has powers, few or many who are, and in front of him sometimes has a Parliament sometimes other instruments. However, in so many years of history there has never been an alternative to Parliament as the seat of democracy; that is, there are countries with Parliament and without democracy: of course, even during fascism there was Parliament; there was Parliament in the Soviet Union too; Hitler's Nazis preferred to burn it materially so they were safer and, look, for reasons of necessity - which I believe could be similar to those of Article 55 - although they wanted to join the Reichstag, being burned, with real regret they renounced it! Well, for similar reasons, everything could be abolished. I was saying, there are countries that have a Parliament and do not have democracy, but there are countries that do not have Parliament and have democracy, look at that. What is the difference between the two cases? That in the first case Parliament counts for something; in the other case it does not count for anything: it is right in some circumstances, to be dosed sparingly, where the head needs a particularly decent seat (now no longer prestigious but at least decent), because he does not want to go to public, since the real tyrant does not like to show up in public for obvious reasons - just think, in fact, of all the great tyrants of Eastern Europe, who did not like to show up in public - and for that reason Parliament can be a good seat. That is not the Parliament that needs, that is, a Parliament that lacks powers, such as the one designed by this Constitution, which is the property of the Government, of those who have the executive power; that is the only place where the people can be represented. Now, it is not a matter of numbers: a reduction of Members - as we had already done in 2005 - would very well be equivalent to the current one; the problem is of powers. The United States Senate has 100 senators, and the United States is much larger: they have a House of four hundred and thirty-five representatives, but Mr President of the Republic - who is called Bush, Obama or Clinton - on important measures must go to ask for Parliament's consent; he cannot call his Parent Company and tell him: The measure must be approved by tomorrow morning. If he does, he doesn't pass a provision anymore. This is democracy, which is the opposite of what is contained in this reform. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. The amendments tabled to Article 14 are set out below. We now come to the explanation of the amendments tabled to Article 16.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u134	Madam President, I have tabled two amendments to Rule 16. The first amendment is intended to make the following amendments to paragraph 1: in point (b), delete the following words: "even when the legislative function is carried out collectively by the two chambers." The Chamber of Deputies shall, in point (c), delete the number 1; in point (d), first paragraph, after the words: 'the elections' shall add the following words: 'introduce new taxes or amend existing taxes'; It is considered appropriate to introduce these amendments in order to make the forecasts for the urgent decree more homogeneous and rational. As regards the deletion amendments referred to in points (a) and (b), the text should be returned to the version resulting from the first reading of the Senate. Finally, by letter c), the possibility for the Government to use this instrument to modify the current tax rules is excluded. The next amendment that I tabled to this article is much simpler: it simply wants to exclude the possibility for the Government to use the instrument of the decree of urgency to modify the rules in force in the tax field. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. Let us now turn to the explanation of the amendments tabled in Article 17. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Let us now turn to the explanation of the amendments tabled in Article 17.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u135	I have tabled an amendment to Article 78 of the Constitution, the amended text of which, in the last version approved by the House of Deputies, reads: The House of Deputies shall act by an absolute majority on the state of war and confer on the Government the necessary powers. I believe that war, repudiated from other parts of the Constitution, is something so serious that it cannot be imposed on Italians by a simple absolute majority of one House. I believe that a decision like this should be taken by a much larger majority, because it is probably a matter of imposing deaths and devastations throughout the country. I have therefore tabled an amendment replacing the words 'absolute majority' with the words 'qualified majority of the four fifths of Members'. This seems to me to be a sacrosanct thing, although I doubt that this majority will want to take my proposal into consideration; but I believe it and for this reason I have tabled this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, given the limited time available, I will try to be as concise as possible. However, I need at least a few minutes to explain the amendments tabled. Without entering into the controversy about what has turned out to be modifiable and what not, I think it is necessary for us to make a contribution as constructive as possible, even in the difficulty of the enterprise. I would therefore like to make a special comment on Article 17 of the reform, which amends Article 78 of the Constitution. I would therefore like to refer to two of my amendments relating to this subject (I have already explained those relating to Article 16). The first amendment I am talking about is the one which introduces the following paragraph to Article 17: The participation of the Armed Forces in international operations is regulated by law in accordance with international rules and treaties. I think it is desirable to add this new paragraph, which aims to introduce a reserve of law relating to the participation of our armed forces in international operations. This would fill a significant regulatory gap: it is not an issue that this last reform has wanted to address either. In fact, the Constitution lacks in normalizing the assumptions of use of the Armed Forces, which do not fall into the classification of the state of war. Given the current international scenario, it is clear that it is necessary to regulate Italian participation in international military missions in the absence of a state of war. Therefore, this paragraph establishes a reserve of law which, of course, in cases of necessity and urgency does not exclude recourse to Article 77 of the Constitution. Moreover, a constitutional bond is established to the law itself and to the possible decree of necessity and urgency, a bond represented by the reference to international norms and treaties, such as to explicitly recall Article 10 of the Constitution and implicitly Article 11. Finally, it should be remembered that it has already been approved by one branch of Parliament, and is close to the approval of the other branch, precisely a text of law intended to regulate the participation of the Armed Forces in international military operations. It is therefore easy to predict that, before the entry into force of the new constitutional text, we will already have a primary legislation on the subject, which at that point may possibly be improved, precisely by virtue of a constitutional precept that establishes its unavoidable need. A further amendment to Article 17 deletes the words 'absolute majority'. It is considered appropriate to respect the original approach of the Constitution, which does not include the provision of a deliberative quorum, equal to the absolute majority. As is well known, in the original wording of Article 78 of the Constitution a clear distinction is defined between the power to decide the state of war, in the Parliament, and the responsibility to conduct the actions of descendants, in the Government, also on the basis of increased powers conferred on the latter by the Parliament in the act of the same resolution. Although extremely concise, therefore, Article 78 contains a plurality of meanings: one of these is implied precisely by the absence of any reference to a qualified majority. It is not superfluous to remember that the Constituent did not hesitate to establish qualified majorities whenever the object of the deliberation suggested it. If this has not been the case in the case of Article 78, it cannot be attributed solely to the proportional electoral law imagined at the constituent stage. This is never due to the explicit link between power in the Parliament and responsibility in the Government that can only live in constancy with the trust bond provided for in Article 94 of the Constitution. Well, if a simple majority is expected both to secure confidence in the government and to revoke it, thus leading, for obvious consequences, also to a necessary change in government policies, it does not seem rational to assume a qualified majority to give the government those extraordinary powers necessary to face a war situation. In fact, it would be possible, remotely but cannot be excluded, of a motion of distrust capable of imposing the change of the Executive voted by a number of parliamentarians even significantly less than those who had voted on the attribution to the Government itself of extraordinary powers to face the state of war. While understanding the needs and sensitivities associated with a very delicate subject such as that dealt with in Article 78 of the Constitution, it is considered appropriate to maintain the balance identified as optimal by the Constitutional Assembly, or a deliberative quorum equivalent to that necessary to guarantee trust or to revoke it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. Let us now turn to the explanation of the amendments tabled in Article 21.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u137	Madam President, I would like to make a brief comment on the amendment which is intended to put before the House the possibility of the elected President of the Republic participating in the election of the elected Members of the European Parliament in our constituency. The exclusion of such participation has been decided in an absolutely unmotivated way and we do not understand how today we are discussing a Senate composed of regional councillors and mayors, but do not let the European parliamentarians participate in the election of the President of the Republic. I do not know what mechanism has led to this kind of solution, which is clearly supported by the Government's opinion, to exclude MEPs. This could be an opportunity to reflect on it again. Perhaps because Members of the European Parliament are elected by the proportional system and so there is no majority that would benefit from numbers that are particularly preponderant to the minority? I think this should be an opportunity for reflection.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u138	The amendments tabled to Rule 27, introduced by the House of Deputies, are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u139	Let us turn to the explanation of the amendments tabled to Article 30, corresponding to Article 29 of the text approved by the Senate. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to explain together all the amendments tabled to Chapter IV concerning the amendments to Title V of Part II of the Constitution. I believe that this draft constitutional reform law is a great opportunity that has been lost so that it can really affect the fabric of territorial autonomy in such a way as to result in a significant reduction in public expenditure. We know very well, because we have the opportunity to consult the budgetary data of the state, that at present the greatest difficulty of reducing public expenditure is encountered precisely in the regions where most this expenditure increases uncontrolledly. We know well that now in the feeling of Italians, unfortunately also for some absolutely negative facts happened at some regional councils and administrations, the Regions are the sore point of the inefficiency and waste of the national public apparatus. This, therefore, could have been the opportunity to really put hand to a second Republic, in the sense of re-determinating in a more rational and efficient way the organization of territorial autonomy in our country. What do I mean? Beyond some provocations, which are also contained in the amendments proposing the abolition of the regions, as bodies where we are currently spending and spreading and which do not produce so much, important changes could certainly have been introduced. The first is the reduction in the number of regions. We are in a country of 60 million inhabitants where there are 21 regions and autonomous provinces. Very often we look abroad, when it suits us, to imitate, but, when it doesn't suit us, we close our eyes: France, from 1 January 2016, will reduce its regions from twenty-four to twelve; Denmark, from 1 January 2016, will completely eliminate the regional level, leaving only the state level, as legislative and of course administrative in some ways, and the municipalities, as the first interlocutors and performers of policies of service to the citizen directly on the territory. This would also be desirable, but I understand that there are serious political problems for intervening in this area. However, I do not understand how the regional political class, to which today we also confer the laticlavium and the possibility of being decisive in the process of revision of the Constitution - that is, we give the Senate, or what remains of it, to the regional political class - to be so strong within the parties that it blocks any kind of revision of the organization of territorial autonomy and of the regions on the territory. We have Regions whose number of inhabitants does not exceed that of a large district of the Capital, of Naples or of Milan; we have Regions that therefore, for a few hundred thousand inhabitants, maintain on their feet apparatuses, councils, presidencies and joints, with all the consequent structures. And do we really think that in our country we can reduce public spending if we do not intervene in this sector? I believe that hiding behind what screen to avoid getting into these arguments is what should not have been done: you should not have hidden yourself, you should have entered into this matter. If we really wanted to make a strong reform of the Constitution, the only argument in which we had to enter, in addition to that of the equal reduction of parliamentarians - said Senator Malan - both in the Chamber and in the Senate, was that of the territorial organization: we had to reduce the Regions, or at least cut the number if we did not want to do something even more opportune, more evident and more useful. But none of this has been done. I have therefore tabled a number of certainly provocative amendments, which may not even be considered admissible at this stage of the debate, but which want to be a further appeal to my colleagues in the majority to consider this matter, because otherwise - I repeat - we will never have a reduction in public expenditure, compared to which we have simply had an increase. It suffices to observe the trend of the increase of the public debt in our country to understand how it is connected to the institution of the Regions, to the increasing resources transferred to them and to the possibilities granted them to spend uncontrolledly. Now, as a reward for this continuous waste, we give them the Senate, what remains of the Senate, what may not even remain in the light of how we are reducing it. Mr President, I would like to open a small parenthesis because I know very well what your personal feelings are from a territorial point of view. Is it possible that a senator from Rome has not been raised in this House to wonder what are the reasons for the will to destroy the oldest parliamentary institution in the civil world? I have not heard a colleague from any political party elected in Rome who has defended the Senate in this city, in this House, where behind him, Madam President, we remember the return of the Senate and the Homeland to the Italians. I really wonder why we have come to this point and certainly justify some positions with the fact that those who today ask us to abolish the Senate of Romano have very little, indeed have a lot of pain with regard to this city. I am not a Roman, it is not up to me to defend the Senate as a Roman, but it is up to me to defend it as an Italian and as a citizen of the world. The whole world envyes us this institution, we copy it, even from a nominal point of view, and we are destroying it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u140	Madam President, I have tabled two amendments to Article 30, both in the direction of recognising the specialty of the whole mountain provinces bordering on foreign countries which the Delrio law has sought to recognise, giving the proper recognition that these territories must have. Among other things, my Province, that of Belluno, is characterized by a difficulty from the economic and territorial point of view, as it is bordering the autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano and with the Autonomous Region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, for him it is objectively found to live a condition of competitiveness. I had already presented this proposal last year during the first reading of the measure under consideration, starting from the assumption that if this recognition is made at the level of legislation under the Delrio law, the more it should be included in the Constitution giving that specialty and those values that are contained in it. We believe that it is demagogic to continue to talk about the mountains, to live the mountains, to live those territories that, as we have seen several times, have been distracted also from the hydrogeological point of view, without giving any incentive, no resource and no autonomy for their maintenance and garrison. We know that the so-called Delrio law is an invariance of expenditure, so it absolutely does not give the necessary resources to live those territories; therefore, with this amendment I strongly ask that the neighbouring Provinces and Regions be recognized that value and the importance that autonomy from the administrative and fiscal point of view confers. We believe that this recognition is the expression of an autonomous territorial reality that moves from the federalist perspective that I have always shared: I refer to the ability of the territories to self-manage, to grow and to manifest their economic capacities, their strength and autonomy. I therefore strongly call for a new vision of this on the part of the Government, and I propose the amendments, some of which are tabled in the next articles, in which I ask that there be this change and this inclusion which would confirm the speciality that the so-called Delrio law recognizes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u141	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u142	Let us turn to the explanation of the amendments tabled to Article 31, corresponding to Article 30 of the text approved by the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u143	Madam President, I come from Article 31 to try to illustrate the text as a whole of our main amendments, linked by a common thread that is that of the economy. We Conservative Reformists in fact think that the missed opportunity of these reforms lies not only in the reorganization of institutional architecture, making one House limp rather than the other, but also in the fact that this reform process will not be remembered by the citizens, because it will not intervene on their lives, on that of families, on that of businesses in an effective way; it will not help anything. The Italians won't need this reform. When they realize some negative effects produced by this reform on democracy and the ability to be represented in a House where that representativeness is guaranteed by their right of choice, in any way organized, then, in hindsight, many will understand that not only has an opportunity been missed, but a damage has been produced, to which we will be forced to remedy in a few years' time. Some have mentioned in this House better than me, and even in that French Senate which we have looked at for comparison as a model, it has been understood that non-electivity has reduced not only the role, but a process of democratic participation that has badly done to the French institutions. So, if the French Senate is thinking of recovering a direct election model, such as the one that is applied to the National Assembly, we instead countertrendly realize only today that, while having to overcome the principle of perfect bicameralism, today we badly copy a model that others are already abandoning. I come back to the most serious and concrete question that I would like to be able to raise to the real debate of this reform process and this reading that the Senate carries out today. In the explanation of the amendments, starting with Article 31, I would like to explain one of the amendments that we consider to be among the most important of our proposal. I just remember that we did not sign a million amendments, and not even 80 million. We have signed 161, because we are convinced that the best defence of democracy lies in the quality and content of the proposals that are to be compared in the parliamentary classrooms. With an amendment we intend to bring forward not only provocatively, but because we are seriously convinced of this, at the head of the state, the planning of health services. The aim is to remedy the granting of exclusive competences to the regions in the field of health. In fact, with the revision of Title V it is granted to the Region, to the President of the Region, the possibility to spend in the field of health care 75 percent of the total resources available. Today, the commitment that is required of the Regions amounts to so much. But by absorbing the health expenditure 75% of the total resources of the Regions, the question is: but what other policies can be conducted by the Italian regions if two thirds of their expenditure is absorbed by the health care? Are the regions still representative of territories and citizens, or have they become almost a gigantic health company? It would be more correct to call them Health Regions, rather than Regions tout court, because in their absolute definition there is no space to fulfill and perform other policies and other roles. The recent history has also highlighted the damage caused by a finance not always under control. I don't want to call it cheerful, but I certainly don't call it good finance. I am talking about some regions in particular, which have wasted resources without building anything good and often forcing their citizens to health migration, a sad tourism that takes place within our national border, to find services worthy of this name. The federalism born from the changes of Title V, besides producing a regional neo-centralism and the exponential growth of litigation between institutions (son, alas, of the ambiguity of the concurrent legislation) has widened, in fact, the inequalities between the various areas of the country, forcing a right of citizenship, one and indivisible, to be declined in different ways depending on the place where you are living. If you are lucky enough to be born and live in a virtuous region from the point of view of management, you are guaranteed your right to health. Otherwise, it's not like that. All this radically changes the space and prospects of citizenship rights, which apply to the individual regardless of contingent conditions, in the direction of a context in which they cease to be a national public good to assume a local value, transforming local membership into the primary source of resource law. That is to say, Madam President, that if I was born in the Calabria region, I do not have the same right to health as a citizen born in the Veneto Region or in the Lombardy Region. First we take note of this serious distortion that we are causing to all citizens from when they are born to when they die, the better it will be for the perception of the effectiveness of that public expenditure that we often call as a positive value and that, instead, is lived by citizens as a disvalue, a negative value, because that citizen knows that, against the taxes paid, they will not match the same level of quantity and quality of services to which he is entitled. That is why in other articles, particularly at 1 and 16, we have proposed amendments which we consider to be dramatically necessary today, in the light of an economic crisis and a profound crisis of social cohesion in our country. Too often the citizen has seen derogations from the laws and constitutional principles themselves Governments more careful to find resources to cover inefficiencies and waste of public money, than to correctly apply those magnificent articles 3 and 53 of the Constitution. The amendment, which I very much welcome, which we intend to put before the House to consider, even beyond this reform process, is contained in a draft law which deals with the competences of the new Senate, which we consider necessary not only from the point of view of being equal to those of the House of Deputies, as well as additional and enriched aspects of the purely territorial aspects, but also for the Senate to be granted the right to contribute to the safeguarding of the maximum level of the overall tax burden which, in our opinion, cannot and must not exceed the two fifths of the gross domestic product referred to in the previous year, while ensuring the non-retroactivity of tax provisions. The intersection of these two principles is very important to us. In fact, we would like this to be an opportunity to talk not only about the architecture of representation and democracy in the country, but also an opportunity to remedy and foster a virtuous bond between citizens, between representatives and representatives, as the one that probably inspired the action of the constituent Fathers, so that it may be useful to someone, to society, to the community, to that system Country that we must defend. And in order to defend it an insurmountable limit to the total weight of the tax - with a ceiling that cannot exceed the two fifths of the GDP of the previous year, so 40%, which is not even such a low limit - is a defence instrument, especially in a phase of such a strong economic and financial crisis. We, in fact, think of getting the effect of forcing the legislator along the virtuous path of a rigorous policy of reducing expenditure, where by spending we mean the reduction of inefficiencies, procedures that make public spending inefficient and expensive, never of service. The service must always be safeguarded. But we will no longer be able to safeguard it and in fact it is already happening, because it is too constrained by the use of expenditure linked instead to the management of resources. I hope that I have not exceeded my time, Madam President, and I would like to conclude by recalling that the issue of fiscal pressure is closely linked - always in the context of the correct and positive perception that the citizen must see guaranteed - to two principles that we would like to see constitutionalised and that should inspire public administration policies, ensuring that these principles are always present in the evaluation of these policies and their impact on the lives of citizens. These principles are timeliness (because a public administration that is not timely resembles a little 'justice that if it is not fast is not, as someone much more experienced than I said), and economics (to better assess how much of our public expenditure is inspired by economic processes and how much a public administration procedure costs more than what the State has to collect from that procedure). Economics and timeliness represent the modern frontier of public administration and consequently the quality of those services, be they regional or national, which the citizen must perceive as aligned, in balance with the tax pressure he suffers. Today this is not the case, and therefore we ask for a higher quality public expenditure that takes serious action on its cost and a tax pressure that is reduced in order to restore breath and vitality to a social and economic system like that of our country. [[Applause from Senators Perrone and Zavoli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u144	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u145	Let us now turn to the explanation of the amendments tabled in Article 33 corresponding to Article 32 of the text approved by the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment seeks to recognise the peculiarities of island regions and to promote economic and social balance through interventions, including fiscal ones, in the transport and energy sectors. The aim is also to promote territorial rebalancing by setting up extraordinary economic and social measures aimed at enhancing the whole of the Mezzogiorno, with particular attention to local situations with more unfavourable economic indicators. We have seen that the South is going through a moment of crisis; however, the South has turned in a moment of crisis since Italy is Italy. We know that unemployment in our country is about 12%; in the South there are about 7 percentage points more, so we reach almost 20%, not to mention youth unemployment, which is 40%. It is therefore necessary to adopt policies that help the South to advance and align itself with the rest of Italy. I believe that it is essential to indicate in the Constitution what is foreseen in these amendments, which put the need to create a unique and indivisible Italy, both from the economic and development point of view, in order not to leave behind, as has always been done in recent years, some areas of the South, some islands and some critical places of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u147	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u148	The amendments tabled to Article 35, corresponding to Article 34 of the text approved by the Senate, are set out. Let us turn to the explanation of the amendments tabled to Article 37, corresponding to Article 36 of the text approved by the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u149	Madam President, Article 37 deals with the composition of the Constitutional Court. I understand that, among other matters on which the PD would have reached an agreement within it, there is also a proposal to amend and return to the text which the Senate has hesitated on in its time, which we also propose. But I also propose something else. This Parliament has in recent years directed us abundantly towards a consideration of gender minorities, in all the events of our social life. I have never been known to be in favour of setting quotas. But if this is the direction, I think we need overall coherence. I therefore propose that this recognition also take place in the composition of the Constitutional Court. I would like to address the distinguished colleagues, who perhaps have never paid attention to this particular. We have established that there are quotas also on the boards of directors of companies, that is, we have intervened in the decisions of private individuals to establish gender quotas there too. I have never called them pink quotas, but gender quotas, because I am convinced that soon they will have to be blue quotas, going like this, in the sense that surely the gentle sex will prevail, in all its presences, over the sex to which I belong; therefore I think that we should only talk about gender quotas. Then why not also in the Constitutional Court? Let me understand why this principle should not be introduced into the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u150	Madam President, I would like to return to Rule 35, which calls us back to the path of gender equality to which a modern democracy must strive, and not just to reassure Mr D'Alì, who has just spoken with his gallantry and respect. He, however, does not look well into reality and does not record the fact that, on the other hand, there is still a long way to go. I'm also rooting for the blue odds emergency, but the day it's going to be produced is still far away, Senator D'Ali. And this issue helps me to illustrate an amendment that we consider particularly important. Just as Article 35 deals with the principle of equality and equal opportunities which must be guaranteed to everyone, I believe that, with the amendment of the Senate produced in last year's vote that canceled its electivity, we have taken away equal opportunities from people, including the opportunity to vote, to choose. And I do not think it is necessary at this time to reduce and diminish the spaces of democracy. I think that, precisely in the face of an evolution of the economic and therefore social system, we need to bear in mind that today, and above all in some time, we will need to expand the spaces of democracy: of course, an efficient democracy, which really governs, and not just talks about the problem but also solves it. The point, however, is how to ensure equal opportunities for all. Equal opportunity starts from the principle of universal suffrage and, not by chance, the path of Italian women begins when they are finally given the right to vote, because up to that time without that right there were neither citizenship, nor representation or, if there was a citizenship, it was B-grade. They will remember old colleagues like me that only the reform of the family state has allowed women to consider themselves "A" citizens and holders of their rights. The process of self-determination, therefore, is not yet complete, it is far from being accomplished the real one, the real one, because one thing is the principles written on a map and another thing are the principles that are written on the skin of communities, on the living flesh of a people, when that people in a cultural and political process manages to keep in balance the most dear principles, and this is certainly so. So why do we want to deny citizens the possibility of choosing, deciding and participating in a process of determination through self-determination? Why did someone think it would be more useful to do so, but in order to do what? Cost savings? Democracy always has a small cost. It is all the easier to override democratic procedures and often produces some small savings, but we know that the most important saving is that of social cohesion of which Parliament - as President Grasso reminded us this morning - is a guardian and guardian. If it fails to be this, it is not worthy of being a Parliament. If this is to remain a parliamentary Chamber, it cannot escape the process of self-determination of the peoples and, therefore, the determination of the citizen through the electivity of its representatives. The surrogate route of the Regions, besides being tormented - in my opinion - by so many bad examples that recent investigations have brought to knowledge, is also wrong from the point of view of the principle, because it is a process of delegation that I think severely and dangerously reduces the spaces of democracy. So, the gender issue helps me to explain and invite the House to reflect on how we can make the citizen more involved in the new Senate and not necessarily by intervening on Article 2, so feared by everyone. The occasion of the principle of gender equality helps us to include - perhaps in this article - that possible modification within the framework of the path already carried out, first by the Senate, last year, and then by the Chamber, in order to find, in the spaces that the law allows us, a way of participation of citizens. I am referring, in particular, to a primary election procedure that could lead us to identify those regional councillors who will have to be representatives of their region, their territory, their citizens, in this House, which is parliamentary (if it were not a parliamentary Chamber, there would be nothing more to discuss). However, it remains a Parliamentary House, with very delicate particular functions - I believe - that, therefore, it cannot see completely cut the link between it and the citizen. In fact, I think that we would do a very serious wrong to the Italian citizens and to democracy if we took away their power to influence them directly. The primary ones - those that we could very well borrow from the American system for their procedure, which is very regulated by law, and not the ugly primary ones that we have witnessed so far and of which (you can see what they have produced - very regulated and very transparent, they would set in motion a virtuous mechanism of selection of a political class or representatives of citizens who, passing through the Regions, arrive in this which - lively! - remains a parliamentary Chamber and, therefore, subject to universal suffrage of the Italian people.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u151	Madam President, the only amendment I have tabled to Rule 37 has in fact already been anticipated by my colleague, Mr D'Alì. My intention is to restore the text already approved at first reading in the Senate, in which, in the election of constitutional judges, two judges would be reserved to the exclusive decision of the Senate and three to that of the Chamber. It is a slightly more balanced choice, given the numbers that will be created with 630 Members and 100 Senators. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would also like to say a few words about an amendment to Rule 21 - I was not here at the time of your discussion - concerning the election of the President of the Republic. For similar reasons, I propose that we avoid the current wording, which provides for the election of a President of the Republic from the seventh ballot onward with the three fifths of the voters. I believe that the lowering of the quorum, linked to a completely episodic fact - for example, some absences at the time of joint sessions of the Chamber and Senate - can in essence weaken the figure of the President of the Republic. Either we remain with the current wording, which provides for the three fifths of those entitled, or we propose alternative solutions, such as the absolute majority - as is already the case now - from the thirteenth ballot onward, so that in the previous 12 ballots an agreement is sought between the parties. I don't think 12 scrutins are too long, considering we make two of them a day. Therefore, for six days an agreement would be sought between all political forces, to be extended as far as possible; from the thirteenth ballot would be passed to the absolute majority or, alternatively, to a ballot between the first two most voted at the last ballot. The important thing, however, is that there is no quorum for the three fifths of the voters, for the reasons I said earlier. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. Let us turn to the explanation of the amendments tabled to Article 38, corresponding to Article 37 of the text approved by the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u152	Madam President, taking up the previous speech, I would like to point out that, with my amending proposal, I strongly wanted to draw attention to the problems of the mountain regions. In particular, the amendments to Articles 38 and 39, of which the illustration is given in advance, aim to confirm, even in the final provisions, the possibility for the Government to seize an opportunity, since among other things, even from the PD, there has been a strong action in the territories to promote this promise never maintained. I therefore believe that yet another possibility is offered to carry on and to have this passage included in the Constitution, which certainly can give a great opportunity to relaunch those territories. I remember that the Province of Belluno at this moment is to have about one billion euros of fiscal residue, which is introduced in that of Rome and does not return to the territory. They are companies, citizens and an economic reality that produce a great residue that could give breath back to the economy and the territory. As a result, I really hope that the Government will pay attention to this issue, giving meaning to an empty provision such as the Delrio law, which is invariant in spending and only gives more burden - more than honors - through competences borne by an economy practically reduced to the bone. I would therefore ask the Government to assess the difficulties of these territories, and in particular of the Province of Belluno, closed within realities whose economic and productive capacity benefits from being able to manage its own resources. Surely also the territory of Belluno could compete, through this ability, to raise your head, to restart and to make sure that citizens can stay to live in a mountainous territory, which sometimes seems to constitute a cost or an annoyance for you, being its costly maintenance. In fact, we are able, with our resources, to manage it, to guard it and to live it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u153	The remaining amendments are set out. The amendments tabled to Articles 39, 40, 41, corresponding to Articles 38, 39 and 40 of the text approved by the Senate, are described. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u156	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President, it has been reported a few days ago that the Franzosi company was definitively removed from the yards of the Third Jupiter pass, after having supplied for a long time gravel the yards of the COCIV consortium. The reason would be that the company would be infiltrated by the 'ndrangheta, considering the iron relations that bind it to the group Ruberto. Nothing new for us and the Third Pass NoTav activists. Already anomalies had emerged both following the investigation for illicit trafficking of waste, and after the seizure of Castello Armellino's quarry. The question, on the other hand, on which a deafening silence seems to have dropped concerns Lande Srl, to the work inside the yards of the Third pass of Serravalle and Arquata. Personally, I had already spoken in March 2014, in this House, about a question of threats to a NoTav activist. With me the activists themselves had shed light on the unclear situations, but they had been threatened with a lawsuit. We know that time is gallant man and, after the unheard of attacks, the more serious ones have arrived directly from the anti-Mafia district direction of Naples. The lords of Lande Srl had ended up in the second strand of the Medea investigation, a great story that involves, in addition to politicians and entrepreneurs, the infamous clan of the Casalesi. The citizens of those territories asked the prefect of Alexandria, Romilda Tafuri, to do what is normal for him to do, nothing more and nothing less than his work laudedly paid by all taxpayers: they had asked to issue a beautiful anti-Mafia ban and remove the lords of Lande Srl from their land. Since then silence has dropped: mouths sewn at Palazzo Ghilini, seat of the prefecture, and silence of grave in the newspapers. Today I repeat in this House a concept to highlight it to the Ministry of the Interior. Summer has been a long time, and now, colloquially, dear prefect, it's good for you to get to work: we'd like to know if you're going to issue the interdict and do what's right, if you have time between phone calls, you know. Finally, Madam President, allow me to thank my heartfelt thanks to those tireless NoTav activists from the Third Jupiter Pass, who are today the only democratic garrison in those lands where there is a sleeping state (not to mention worse) that, in the name of fantomatic progress, sells the territory to crime. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u159	DI GIORGI (PD). Madam President, I would like to mention the 'Course life' initiative which took place yesterday in my city of Florence, which is aimed at raising funds for cancer research and treatment and, in particular, breast cancer. In fact, women are the people who, thirteen years ago, created this demonstration. Yesterday there were 34,000 people who, this year, have met in Piazza del Duomo to take part in the city marathon, where children from schools also participate. It is a great manifestation of community: a marathon symbol of the long and tiring journey faced by all women who live with the evil of breast cancer. It is a truly exceptional response from the whole city, which every year is involved in a day that is also festive, with various testimonials, music, sports and a bit of everything. The thirteenth edition of this event, totally free with a small share of participation, has allowed to collect 540,000 euros, which will be intended for initiatives at the city hospitals specialized in psychological care and support for women affected by breast cancer. We are talking about civilization and this manifestation is a great example of civilization in health (but not only) as I mean it, that is the health that must avail itself of the initiatives of scientific research. The resources collected will also be used for scientific research, because health means not only investment in hospitals and care, but also - very much - scientific research. It is, in fact, thanks to scientific research if women - I am talking about women in view of the theme of the event, but the reasoning can be extended to all people affected by cancer - today suffer much less and if they can resort to treatment not devastating and a little less invasive than those of the past. There has been an invitation from Florence and we, ladies and gentlemen, who will be working on the law of stability in a few days' time, will also have to worry about allocating the necessary resources to scientific research in our country, so that diseases such as breast cancer can be tackled more and more appropriately. Here we talk about cancer numbers in Italy: a research and an official census presented in Rome, a couple of weeks ago, by the Italian Association of Medical Oncology and the Italian Association of Cancer Registers estimate, for the year 2015, 48,000 diagnosis. Therefore, the continuous and progressive increase in research, the improvement of care and the possibility of intervening in early stages are indispensable. And we must say this especially to our young people, because they do not think about prevention, even if it is now spreading a lot among the girls aged 25 to 30, because it is the only way to limit the effects on physical health as much as possible, but also on psychological well-being and, more generally, on the quality of life of the people affected. In fact, we must not forget that, although there are no limits to progress, we only have to look for the spread of less invasive cures, which allow many lives to be saved (as we know, mortality is much diminished). Hence science: science, science, science. We have to invest and we have the task of doing so and we have to support research centres, universities and all the places where we work for it. In the marathon "Corri la vita" they were all dressed in pink, so Piazza della Signoria, yesterday, was completely pink (which in fact was very particular): all this commitment that there was, even festive, must make us think, instead, with great seriousness, about the goal. I would therefore like to thank, also on my personal behalf, those who have organized this event and I hope that in other parts of Italy this can be achieved, precisely by taking advantage of the experience of Florence of so many years, because this will make it easy to have further awareness a little 'everywhere. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u162	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, Article 36 of the Constitution states: The worker is entitled to remuneration proportionate to the quantity and quality of his work and in any case sufficient to ensure that he or she and the family have a free and dignified existence. Yesterday, in front of Montecitorio, during the umpteenth manifestation of precarious workers, I met a worker who lost his job, a precarious job, poor, like those who today more or less have most of the Italian workers. This worker handed me a package of pasta and told me (Senator Airola shows a package of pasta) : "Look, this is article 36 today: this is the pasta that they give to the most deprived people." It's not marketable, of course, and Caritas must have told him. This is the state of the country and today I thought it important to bring you a message: beyond all the discussions that can be held in this House, we need income of citizenship and assistance to the poor, because they are growing in an incredible way. And you, the two of you from the government sitting there, have to do something. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Minzolini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u163	I note that, in order to allow senators to participate in the State funeral of Mr Pietro Ingrao, which will be held tomorrow at 11 a.m., the sitting will begin at 15 a.m., taking into account the suspension of work already provided for in the timetable from 13.30 a.m. to 3 p.m. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u164	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-512.ana.u165	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16 p.m.
