ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 9 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u10	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask the House a few minutes' attention to remind Senator Willer Bordon, who was missing this morning. He was for many years parliamentary, deputy and senator; he was mayor of Muggia for the Italian Communist Party at a very young age; then, in 1987, he was elected to the Chamber of Deputies. He was a man with a very lively personality, whom I, like many colleagues, have well known. Enrolled and deputy of the Italian Communist Party was the first of that party to join the Radical Party at the same time. He had a very complex political life: he was deputy of the Democratic Party of the Left; he founded with Mario Segni the Democratic Alliance; he was in the Democratic Union of Arturo Parisi and Enzo Bianco; he was one of the founders of Italy of the Values; he was senator and leader of the Margherita and, again, senator of the Olive Tree in the next legislature, the one in which President Prodi was head of the Government. This political curriculum of yours is an index of your personality. Man of great intuition and attention to people, he had a very precise judgment on people and a great attention to personal relationships, but he also had a great attention to the changes of society. In an era like ours in which the changes are so radical and so frequent, in which the Italian political system changes with so much speed, Willer Bordon was a man of his time, who lived fully and politically. He was also a man of government: Undersecretary, Minister for Public Works and above all Minister for the Environment; I say above all because the environment corresponded to its deep interests. In those years he left Rome and went to live in a house in the countryside of the Castelli Romani, fulfilling his vocation and his sensitivity. Even after leaving Parliament, he continued to be interested in the environment, with an industrial activity that had a lot of relevance to environmental policies. A man of culture, she had married a great actress, Rosa, to whom I think I can express the senses of closeness not only of the Senators of the Democratic Party Group, but of all the senators. The marriage had brought him closer to the world of theatre: he had taken over a Roman theatre in which he did cultural activities. He died young, at the age of 65, cut off from an evil that left him no time to live. He had great vitality and I think it's right that today the Senate remembers him with sympathy, esteem and friendship. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u11	The presidency of the Senate is associated with these sentiments of mourning and closeness to family members.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u14	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, on behalf of myself and the Senators of SEL, I wish to express my condolences to the wife and children of Willer Bordon. I would also like to remind you of your dedication and your great passion for politics. I met him when we were elected together in 2001; from 2001 to 2006 he was Head of the Margaret Senate. I would like to recall this in many battles, which in that legislature led as the Parent Company of the Margaret, when it fought for the law on conflict of interest and against the proposed reform of the Constitution then advanced. Even before, I would like to recall his experience as Minister of the Environment, which led him, for example, to ask a question that had very passionate and mobilized many citizens of the Roman area, about the pollution by electromagnetic waves throughout the area of Cesano, which he dealt with with with with particular dedication. He was re-elected in the 15th legislature, 2006-2008: in the meantime other political opinions had been formed and he had gained other decisions, which on January 16, 2008, among other things shortly before the end of that legislature, led him to resign, as he had announced, after leaving the Margaret in 2007. I would like to recall the last time I met him, at a conference at La Sapienza University on climate change, with his new commitment in the field of alternative energy research. He is therefore a man who has given much to politics, since he began his activity as mayor, and who, even in his passion and often seeking new ways, leaves in all of us - and I believe in this Senate too - a great void and makes us think that there would still be a real need, in these times, for the contribution of men like Willer Bordon, for everything he has given to Italian politics. [[Applause from Senator Fornaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u17	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I also agree on behalf of the Forza Italia Group with the memory of Senator Bordon. Some of us were lucky enough to meet him, and I'm one of them. I think it is important to remember his constant search for political innovation: Senator Bordon had intuitioned how our politics and society were looking for new and interesting ideas of change and also in his activity as Environment Minister he had the opportunity to demonstrate a particular tension and attention on issues that had never been discussed until then. On behalf of the Forza Italia Group and my staff, I therefore express our regret and our condolences to the family and to the entire national community. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u20	Montevecchi (M5S). The 5 Star Movement also expresses its condolences to the family of Senator Bordon, whom we want to remember for the great intellectual honesty, correctness, consistency and uprightness. These values, embodied by Senator Bordon, will always be for us "lighthouse values" to best honour the responsibility and the task that we have been given. Therefore, even the 5 Star Movement joins this moment of mourning.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u23	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CRI). Mr President, Willer Bordon has left a great legacy, focused on the value of coherence as a polar star for a policy that wants to recover that sense of ethics of responsibility that puts it in tune with the square, with the people it represents. Why am I talking about "coherence"? In that message, with which in January 2008 he justified his resignation as Senator of the Republic, after a political journey of great importance and also of great authority, covered with a deep sense of service for the State, Bordon said words that must remain imperishable memory, recovering, if possible, also the writing that you, Mr President, have behind you. Mine, Bordon said, is not an act of resignation - with reference to resignation - nor much less an act of possession, but a strong act of witness of those who feel the duty to defend the institutions from the drift of distrust that invests politics. We could say that through this extreme gesture he wanted to make a kind of shock test, so that politics, even through the reconstruction of an architecture of the institutions of the State, would send a message of recovery of its role and function, recovering, if I may, also the positive face that it must expose, in order to regain respect and consideration from the public. I believe, then, that today the best gesture, in the minute of silence, but also through the words that with a heartache we address to his family in the memory of a politician gallant man, is to recover his example as a polar star of our daily commitment. That is the most beautiful commitment that Willer Bordon will be able to receive from the silence of this House. With this thought, on behalf of the Reformist Conservatives, I address and renew the heartfelt sense of closeness and solidarity with his family. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u26	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, allow me to speak both on behalf of the Group and on my own behalf for the memory I have of Willer Bordon. An eclectic person, intellectually and politically honest, with whom I have often compared myself in the dialectical role of Parent Company in the 2006-2008 legislature. I have therefore faced a person who believed in his ideas, in Parliament and in transparent principles, sometimes innovative but courageous. Having recently learned of this disappearance, I was particularly impressed, because I remember his stubbornness, the strength of ideas and the character, which led him to head in a clear, transparent and convinced way the logic of certain battles and ideas, sometimes even transversal with respect to his belonging: but he did it because he believed it. I think that in the history of our Senate Willer Bordon, as leader, has interpreted a particular political figure, that when he intervened at times could also appear anomalous, not orthodox with respect to the language, composure and methodologies of the oratory, but he did so with a politeness, consistency, intelligence and elegance that honored him and also this Assembly that listened to him and never contested him, except in the moments of the political clash, as is physiological in the life of Parliament. He never offended him, he never denigrated him because his logic, the strength of his political belief and his ideas led him, if not to share his position, at least to be heard and respected. It is with these words, with this memory that I would like to express to the family, to the wife, to the children, our heartfelt condolences, the condolences of my Group and my staff, that of Renato Schifani. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u27	In memory of Senator Willer Bordon and for a witness of closeness to his loved ones I invite the Assembly to observe a minute of silence and recollection. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u30	MINEO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please listen to a brief reminder of another personality that has left us. Last Saturday we greeted Santo Della Volpe, president of Italian journalists and flag of free information. In the Basilica of Stant'Agnese Luigi Ciotti, who had been a friend of Saint for many years, recalled his commitment to the side of those who were difficult and the idea that Saint had of journalism, as of a mission: obligation to inform first of all those who have no access to confidential news, nor the privilege to look out where you can what you want; the idea of journalism as a public service under the dictation of article 21 of the Constitution. "My husband is an ordained man," he writes on "Huffington Post" Teresa Marchesi, who asks not to make a saint of his saint, remembering that in the end he was also a journalist "Brumbatto," an excellent trumpeted man. Too neat, obstinate, sometimes pedantic, to be carried in the palm of the hand by those who always have an eye to the career, too enthusiastic, naive, happy whenever he could tell the technique and values of journalism to a boy or a girl to make a breach of a category often miserable, which nourishes the myth of the winner, a bit'smurky, turncoat when needed, ready to sing the magnificent fates and progressives, in particular of the companions of rope. I met Santo at the end of the seventies, when young unemployed, after having done the first tests at the workers' newspaper, was a man who seemed to want to take the whole world to head. But he always did it with grace, with that respect for the other and the kindness of soul that were his style. We then met together at RAI in Turin and TG3. Of his work, a lot of work, I want to remember the services on Casale Monferrato, a city that lived around an asbestos factory and that is partly dying and continues to die of asbestos. In this House laws have been made, the judiciary has celebrated trials on this issue, but then the question of economic compatibility comes back: living by risking today to die perhaps tomorrow. Let's review the services of Saint, not to convince us to cut abruptly that gordian knot, but not to forget the humanity behind it. The last two battles - I am finishing, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you once again for a moment of patience - were one by one and one by one. One for six Somali journalists who risked death in their country and who Saint, together with others, brought to Italy; one against the law that we ourselves voted on defamation, because for the many journalists without land, i.e. without newspaper, nor contract, which Saint met daily, the financial penalty, the risk of a fearful lawsuit is worse than the same prison, forces them to silence, cuts their language. He wanted to unite heaven and earth, said Luigi Ciotti and thus honored God. Illustrated, rebellious, obstinate, therefore not flexible, not realistic enough may be, but we realists, we wisers, we who think we do the good of others, please, let us stop for a moment to listen to men made like this. We try to understand what Saint wanted to tell us when he proudly detailed two words: "public service": these are words that I too, often, seemed to speak with an excess of rhetoric, but not when he used them Santo. Public radio and television service, he repeated, in other words, at the service of no one, not even of the Government. Maybe we should remember it in a few days when we deal with RAI. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u31	We greet four municipal councillors of the municipalities of Gorges and Gétigné, twinned with the Municipality of Alatri, who follow our work. Thanks for coming. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u32	The next item is the debate on the 1993 draft law, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator D'Adda, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Representative of the Government, the decree-law under consideration, whose bill of conversion was approved with amendments by the Chamber of Deputies at first reading, stems from the need to define a mechanism for the adjustment of pensions of more than three times the minimum amount, covering the years 2012 and 2013, following the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 70 of 2015, which declared unconstitutional the rule provided for by the so-called Fornero law of 2011. The bill consists of several articles. In addition to the provisions intended to implement the aforementioned judgment, the decree contains additional important rules for the refinancing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation, defensive solidarity contracts, as well as corrective actions in the matter of capitalization of the pension contribution, payment of pensions and measures related to the payment in pay-out of the end-of-term treatment provided for by the Stability Act for 2015. As an intervention expressly aimed at transposing the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 70 of 1015 it is noted that the conjunction of the examination of the decree and the judgment allows here to briefly retrace the content of the cited decision, in order to better understand the action of the legislator. By its judgment, the Court declared the constitutional illegitimacy of the provisions contained in Article 24, paragraph 25, of Decree-Law No 201 of 2011, by which it had been ordered to block the automatic revaluation of pension treatment of more than three times the minimum INPS treatment for the years 2012 and 2013. In particular, the Court considered that the provisions censored affected fundamental rights related to the social security relationship, based on unambiguous constitutional parameters: proportionality of the treatment of retirement, meaning deferred pay, and adequacy. The Court also pointed out that the latter parameter is to be understood as a definite, albeit not explicit, expression of the principle of solidarity referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution and at the same time as the implementation of the principle of substantive equality referred to in the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution. In particular, in the reasoning of the judgment, the Court points out that the warning addressed to the legislator by judgment n. 316 of 2010, by which it indicated that the permanent suspension of the equalisation mechanism or the frequent recurrence of measures aimed at paralyzing it would expose the system to obvious tensions with the insurmountable principles of reasonableness and proportionality, since the main aim of protection inherent in the equalisation mechanism would be cracked, the one providing for a modular defence of the purchasing power of pensions. Having recalled the need for the legislator to carry out a proper balance of constitutional values whenever the need for expenditure savings arises, the Court further notes that the contested provision confines itself to generically recalling the contingent financial situation, without emerging from the overall design the necessary prevalence of the financial requirements on the rights subject to balance, in respect of which interventions are carried out so strongly incisive, adding that in the course of conversion there is no technical documentation on the expected higher revenues and that the financial needs have not been explained in detail. In the absence of a regulatory intervention, therefore, the indexation mechanism provided for in Article 69 (1) of Law No 388 of 2000, according to which the automatic equalisation operates to the extent of 100% for the amount of pension treatment up to three times the minimum; to the extent of 90%, for the amount of pension treatment between three and five times the minimum; to the extent of 75% for the amount of treatment exceeding five times the minimum INPS treatment. In financial terms, the full reactivation of the indexation mechanism would result in quantifiable burdens, net of tax effects, in approximately €17.6 billion for the year 2015 and over €4 billion in regime from the year 2016, rising from over €4.3 billion in 2016 to around €4.1 billion in 2019. Therefore, as a result of the judgment, public finance balances would achieve values substantially incompatible with achieving the objectives required by accession to economic and monetary union. Net debt, in fact, would increase from 2.5% to 3.6% in 2015, while net debt tends to grow by 0.3% in 2016, reaching 1.7%. There would therefore be a risk of the opening of an excessive deficit procedure against our country. In view of this complex framework, in order to transpose the principles established by the Court, the Government has therefore adopted the provisions contained in Article 1 of the Decree. In this respect, it is intended to point out firstly that even in the aforementioned judgment, the Consulta admitted the legitimacy of legislative measures affecting the adjustment of the amounts of pension treatment, provided that limits of reasonableness and proportionality are respected. In this light, the judgment n. 70 of 2015 intended, in fact, to highlight the differences existing between the provisions of Article 24, paragraph 25, of Decree-Law n. 201 of 2011 and other similar provisions in this matter. In particular, Article 1, paragraph 19, of Law No 247 of 2007, according to which for the year 2008 automatic revaluation is not granted to pension treatment exceeding eight times the minimum INPS treatment. In this judgment, the discretion enjoyed by the legislator was highlighted, both in observing the constitutional principle of proportionality and adequacy of pensions. In this regard, it should also be borne in mind that mechanisms for blocking the automatic equalisation, which the Constitutional Court considered admissible, had previously been introduced: in particular, Article 59 of Law No 449 of 1997 established that the automatic equalisation of the cost of living envisaged for the year 1998 for pension treatment greater than five times the minimum INPS treatment and the Constitutional Court by Order No 256 of 2001 stated that the question of constitutional legitimacy raised with reference to that provision was manifestly unfounded, stating that the constitutional guarantee of the adequacy and proportionality of pension treatment, as referred to in Article 36 of the Constitution, meets the limit of the available resources, in compliance with which the Government and Parliament, when making the financial manoeuvre at the end of the year, must introduce the necessary amendments to the legislation of expenditure; and there was not yet Article 81. Moving on to the analysis of the decree, Article 1 determines the measure of the automatic revaluation of pensions of more than three times the minimum INPS treatment, relative to the years 2012 and 2013 (with effects also on the following years). It therefore recognises, in compliance with the principle of budgetary balance and public finance objectives, only a part of the equation which would result from the aforementioned application of the general rules. In particular, with reference to 2012 and 2013, equalisation quotas vary over the years according to the following percentage terms (of course the rates for 2012 refer to the same equation only for 2012): 40 per cent for 2012 and 2013, 8 per cent for 2014 and 2015 and 20 per cent from 2016, for pension treatment of a total amount greater than three times the said minimum treatment and equal to or less than four times; 20 per cent for 2012 and 2013, 4 per cent for 2014 and 2015 and 10 per cent from 2016, for treatment of a total amount greater than four times and equal to or less than five times the same minimum. The equation at 100 per cent (already recognised and cleared) for treatments with a total amount of less than or equal to three times the minimum and no equalisation for total treatments greater than six times the minimum is recognized. Paragraph 2 provides that the equalization percentages are identified by including in the total amount of all pension treatment of the subject also the life grants deriving from elected offices. It remains clear that these allowances are only considered for the purposes of calculating the total amount, which is thus increased, but not for the purposes of applying the State rules of equalization to the same vitalities. Paragraph 3 provides that the amounts due in accordance with this Article shall be paid with effect from 1 August 2015. The choice made by the legislator has therefore favoured the average-low incomes, considering that additional resources can be used to integrate support measures to weak groups in a period when there is increasingly need for support to poverty, and also for pensioners, with an amount equal to once and a half the minimum (they are mainly women). The blockade of equalisation had been on gross pensions between EUR 1,500 and EUR 2,000. Taking a short example, with a gross pension of about 1,700 euros - 1,350 net - they were perceived over 900 euros gross, which correspond to 700 euros net, as a sum of backward on the basis of a different form of equalization. It is therefore not a matter of lump-sum repayment or compensation. We also welcome the Government's decision to reopen a discussion with the trade unions to discuss which equalization mechanism is most useful in the years to come. In the Commission, it considered the need for a meeting with the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, before the start of the next budgetary session, to discuss the evolution of the entire social security system, certainly the most likely system to generate social cohesion and inclusiveness or - as we have seen with the Fornero law, issued in a particularly serious economic context for the Pesa - misunderstanding and rigidity in the transposition of austerity measures to which Europe has asked to adhere. A framework is needed that does not penalise young people, in their expectations of a reasonable certainty of the beginning of the treatment of quiescence and its pillar, and at the same time does not link any working force to the sides of the system - the fifty-year-olds of today - as if they were to be considered extraneous to the contribution to the development of the country, maintaining the right elasticity and thoughtfulness in the now necessary revision of the Fornero law. The following Article 2 provides for an increase of 1,020 million euros, for 2015, of the Social Fund for Employment and Training, for the refinancing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation from the current legislation, referred to in Article 2, paragraphs 64, 65 and 66, of the so-called Fornero law. This amount is added to the allocation already foreseen for this purpose for 2015, amounting to 700 million, an appropriation already used - according to the explanatory report of the draft law of conversion of this decree - to cover treatments by way of derogation starting in 2014. The total resources allocated thus amount to EUR 1,720 million. In the debate in the Commission, the Government has opened up the possibility to evaluate a more careful reconnaissance for the needs of the years 2014 and 2015 compared to the shock absorbers and solidarity contracts, as requested by colleagues on special agendas. The refinancing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation is in a delicate phase of transition between different legislative regimes and located in several regulatory areas. Hence the need to ensure a great deal of attention to the overall framework and adequate funding for them. Article 3 increases from 30 to 35 million euros, for 2015, the maximum limit of the quota destined for the recognition of the integration fund by way of derogation for the fishing sector, within the resources related to social shock absorbers by way of derogation - as redetermined by the previous article 2 - pursuant to article 1, paragraph 109, of the law of stability 2015. With paragraph 1 of Article 4 there is still intervention on solidarity contracts extending to 2015, with a special appropriation, the possibility, for companies not covered by the ordinary scope of application of the discipline of solidarity contracts of defensive type - that is those that avoid the reduction of staff - to conclude such contracts, with the recognition of certain facilities in favour of the same companies and the workers concerned. For this possibility, the extension for the year 2015 is set within the expenditure limit of 140 million euros. The following paragraph 1-a provides for an increase in resources for 2015 relating to a transitional increase in the measure of wage integration treatment relating to the ordinary scope of defensive solidarity contracts. This increase is 10% of the salary lost as a result of the reduction in time and is now granted, for 2015, up to a maximum of EUR 200 million (the rule so far in force set a limit of EUR 50 million for 2015 as well). This transitional increase is also, in essence, an extension of similar measures. Paragraphs 1 and 1-a of Article 5 are important, which amend the rules governing the revaluation of the contribution amount used to calculate the value of the pension with the contribution system. The amendment concerns both pension allowances determined under that scheme and pensions paid entirely under that scheme. It is provided that the revaluation coefficient of the individual contribution amount is in any case not less than one percentage point. The application of this minimum value gives rise to confirmation of the previous amount of the pillar, without any reduction (the application of a value of less than one percentage point would instead result in a reduction of the previous amount). Where, according to the coefficient calculation mechanism, the value is less than one percentage point, the difference from the new minimum value shall be recovered when determining the coefficients for the following years. Paragraph 1-a, however, provides that the aforementioned recovery criterion in the following years does not operate in the first application. Consequently, the allocation, for the revaluation of the contribution amount for the year 2014, where the capitalization rate is less than one percentage point due to the recession and low inflation, does not result in recovery on the basis of the coefficient for the following year, i.e. in the transition between 2014 and 2015, recovery is not carried out and the coefficient remains its value. As mentioned, for the revaluation of 2014, the calculation on the basis of the average change in nominal GDP of the five-year period 2009-2013 would have resulted in a reduction in the pillar: a sign that automatic mechanisms that regulate themselves only from the financial point of view, contained in the social security system, can have negative effects in the future and on younger generations. The economic sustainability of the system can only be achieved in the future if it is linked to social sustainability. Article 5-a contains a rule of authentic interpretation of the provision on pension treatment for workers exposed to asbestos laid down in Article 1, paragraph 112, of the Stability Act for 2015. The latter paragraph has excluded, with reference to workers currently in service, the application, for pension purposes, of the cancellation measures adopted by INAIL of the certifications previously issued by the same Institute, relating to exposure to asbestos for a period of more than ten years. This guarantees access to retirement for hundreds of workers exposed to asbestos to whom certifications had been unreasonably revoked. This Article 5-a clarifies that the term "workers currently in service" means workers who, on 1 January 2015, were not beneficiaries of pension treatment (i.e. without the existence, on the same date, of an employment relationship). Paragraph 1 of Article 6 amends a provision introduced into the law of stability and introduces a single time-limit for the payment, by the INPS, of pension treatments and benefits in favour of the civilian invalids charged by the same Institute - and of the vital benefits borne by the INAIL (the provision of which is carried out by the same INPS). Under this provision, therefore, from 1 June 2015 until 31 December 2016, such treatments will be granted on the first day of each month without staggering. It remains firm that, for beneficiaries of more than one of the treatments mentioned above, payment is made with a single payment mandate, on the 10th of each month, provided that there are no preventative causes. All this greatly simplifies management, administrative and IT procedures, with only one processing per month against the current three and has a very significant social impact, guaranteeing the beneficiaries the early financial availability of all the benefits, and we know how the pensioners have fought on this. Article 7 amends the regulation, introduced by the Stability Act, on the possibility, for private sector employees, of liquidation in the monthly salary, experimentally, for the period from 1 March 2015 to 30 June 2018, of the shares of the end-of-relationship treatment (TFR) matured during the same period and simplifies, in fact, some obligations of the companies, making in part less burdensome their commitment. With regard to the payment of the end-of-relationship paychecks, the Foundation for Labour Consultants has recently pointed out that, on a sample of one million workers, in May only 567 workers (just over 0.5 per thousand of those concerned) requested the liquidation of the treatment in paychecks. In this respect, it is noted that these data are undoubtedly partial, which, however, seem to indicate the presence of disincentives to the choice of workers in favour of the settlement of the end-of-term processing paycheck. Therefore, it might be useful for the Government to provide assessments of the use of the pay-out of the end-of-relationship treatment by workers, including in order to assess, if this option is confirmed, possible corrective measures to the provisions of the Stability Act for 2015, which is also experimental. In conclusion, the measure under consideration commits additional resources for medium to low incomes, succeeding in the complex economic situation and in the more intense interventions not foreseen by the DEF, but to which it had to take place. The measure also increases social shock absorbers and the financing of solidarity contracts, to give certainty to workers and companies in times of crisis, without dispersing their human and professional heritage. This is done by maintaining a programmatic debt for 2015 of 2.6%, using that margin of 0.1 per cent of trend improvement that allowed to finance in this year, for the most substantial part, the application of the Constitutional Court's judgment, restoring respect for constitutional principles and the needs of public finance, without which the possibilities of intervention for measures to support growth, which would have involved the weakest pensioners themselves, would have been cancelled. We therefore present to the Assembly a measure that can be accepted and understood, in its various facets, as useful to the country and responding to the needs that have arisen, as well as to those in existence and also to those to come. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u34	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked to intervene Senator Divina to illustrate the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u35	Mr President, Article 1 of the decree-law under consideration is a consequence of the decision of the Constitutional Court of April 2015, which establishes the unconstitutionality of Article 24, paragraph 25, of the famous decree saves Italy. The Court ruled that the rule was unlawful and provided for the blocking, for 2012-2013, of the indexes of their pensions of more than three times the minimum amount. Article 1 of the decree-law - subversively, at this point - aims to avoid the automatic implementation of the said judgment, by providing, instead, a flat-rate refund in place of the refund of the non-indexation. In this provision, in fact, there is a clear violation of Article 136 of the Constitution, under which, when the Court declares the constitutional illegitimacy of a rule..., the rule ceases to have effect from the day following the publication of the decision..., thus restoring the status quo ante. Article 1 of the decree-law, on the other hand, effectively blocks any effect ex nunc of the effectiveness of the pronunciation and, in fact, does not provide for the application of indexing, neither for previous years (having been cancelled, in fact, paragraph 25), nor for subsequent ones and even contemplating a different method of revaluation compared to the legislation in force, starting from the year 2016. In this way, the Government seems to have interpreted the judgment by judging it as an additive in principle, which is not by express statement of the Court. In fact, the Consulta, intervening in full debate on what to do later, specifies that the judgment on the blocking of the indexing of pensions, without the introduction of possible interventions of the Government, is in itself erga omnes and is immediately applicable. This means that, in order to obtain reimbursement of the sums not received, no appeal must be made, but it is sufficient to submit the application to the Institute. After that, the return is an obligation on the part of the State. At this point, a further aspect of the unconstitutionality of Article 1 should be noted, as there is also a violation of the constitutional principle under Article 38 aimed at ensuring adequate means of life. It states, in fact, the same judgment of the Court that the interest of pensioners, in particular holders of low social security benefits, is directed to the preservation of the purchasing power of the sums received, from which the right to an adequate social security benefit derives in consequence. This right is unreasonably sacrificed in the name of financial requirements not detailed in detail. The Court intervenes to say that there are not even detailed rules which state that this should take place in the manner that the Government seems to declare. Article 1 of the Decree-Law, not providing for any reimbursement for previous years, but only a partial and flat-rate payment, persists in contrast with Article 38 of the Constitution. Moreover, we say that the same Article 1, not to contemplate repayment in full, insists on the violation of Articles 3 and 53 of the Constitution, always remaining on a single audience of subjects, pensioners precisely, the satisfaction of financial interests, in violation of the principle of universality of taxation. There is also a violation of Articles 36, 38 and 3 of the Constitution, since failure to re-establish the revaluation mechanism, in breach of the principles of proportionality between pension and remuneration and the adequacy of social security benefits, also alters the principle of equality, causing illogical discrimination against the category of pensioners. For all these reasons, very strong reservations of an unconstitutional nature remain. We therefore propose that the House decide, under Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, not to proceed with the examination of the draft law in question. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u36	He asked Senator Bernini to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u37	Mr President, as my previous colleague, Mr Divina, has said, this is a measure which - as the rapporteur, Senator D'Adda, of course - originally draws (or tries to inspire) the effects of an ablative judgment of the Constitutional Court (judgment No 70 of the current year), which declares constitutionally illegitimate the path of blocking the indexation of pensions over three times the minimum for a number of years deemed incompatible with the protection of fundamental rights related to the social security system. The question referred to us is based on two pre-conditions, one of which, unfortunately, is not of burning topicality. Once again we are faced with a decree-law, the thirty-seventh, which clearly violates Article 77 of the Constitution. It is a dishomogeneous decree, and the same title gives the measure of dishomogeneousness. Article 1 deals with pensions. It attempts - and I repeat, it attempts - and I shall be very brief on this point - to resolve in a cutting-edge, transactive and unilateral way, to the detriment of pensioners, with a balance and withdrawal that gives very little to a few, the problem of pensions, from the point of view of the Illegal Constitutional Court. In fact, it combines other measures, such as the refinancing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation, solidarity contracts which are also refinanced and the refinancing of certain funds. This activity, apparently meritorious if it were not, in part, poorly assisted by an Article 81 not fully integrated, although once again the Budgetary Commission considers that there is still coverage of the budget items. And equally badly assorted are the matters that this decree-law integrates. It is absolutely useless to say once again - we in Forza Italia have done this 37 times and, therefore, it would be a pleonastic and certainly redundant, as we now say with an expression that is very pleasing - why the Government should not exercise a legislative activity that is Parliament's responsibility if not expressly legitimized by factual, objective and constitutionally legitimate data such as these are not. However, on the procedural point I would say that we do not need to entertain ourselves, because unfortunately the subject is represented in a hand-held way by the content of the decree-law under consideration. What truly mortifies us institutionally, but also a little personally, is that these decree-laws, which are not assisted by Article 77 of the Constitution (which is falling into desuescence for bad protervo use), are always systematically voted on by the Constitutional Affairs Committees of the House and the Senate and by this House, despite the fact that preconstitutional consents are being presented, based on a constitutional jurisprudence which is equally inexorable. In the same way, we must note that the train of certain measures does not stop at some stations, and certainly the so-called pension decree did not stop at the senate station. Senator D'Adda made an excellent illustration of a path that is valid as a title but not as content. In the competent Commission, we have tried, as far as possible, to work together to improve a substance which is not constitutionally legitimate. It is not - and I will explain very briefly the reasons - because it does not supplement the motivational circumstances demanded by the Constitutional Court, as it continues to reveal a crowd of pensioners, who have been granted by the Constitutional Court their right to indexing which is more than 78 percent. And it recognizes only one sixth of the refunds that have been legitimized by the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which recognizes a perfect right, ignored by the decree-law in question. In fact, it does nothing but give little to very few, with the semantic mockery of defining this little, in its one-off form, even as a bonus. Which means that it gives very little - much less than they would have the right to have - to 20 and passes percent of what should be called entitled, but that they are not because they are in fact expropriated. I repeat, therefore, that the meaning of our document which we want to remain in the proceedings of this House derives from what is absolutely a preliminary point for us. Unfortunately, all we can do is to denounce once again the futility, the damage of measures which have a major impact on the lives of citizens and which are not just paper: we treat them as paper, but they are not just that. Once again, the weakest groups who are suffering the most from the crisis are excluded. The famous 80 euros, which have been President Renzi's well-known and well-known electoral hand for the European elections - and which we are still paying in terms of budget positions - had also been promised to pensioners, who were denied the status of pensioners after the elections. What this measure recognises is a minimal part of what the Constitutional Court says must be a social security law. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have set out our path - if we wanted to - to build the perfect decree-law, which is defined by the Constitutional Court's explanatory statement. The latter states that pensions are nothing more than deferred remuneration and, as such, cannot but be indexed, cannot but be adapted to the cost of living constantly, uninterruptedly, just as wages, if not for very defined reasons, which represent an adequate balance of rights that may be sacrificed and for very short periods. And this does not exist in this case, because the time is too long and the sacrifice required of pensioners is unreasonable - says the Constitutional Court - in terms of proportionality and adequacy with respect to generic, smoky and contingent financial situations, which the Constitutional Court has not considered adequate to justify the sacrifice itself. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, we are replying here, with a wrong procedural procedure, a dissimilar decree-law, a wrong content. We reproduce the same constitutional pathology as the contents of Law No. 214 of 2011, of which all, although otherwise induced to vote, we should regret and for which we should make amends with an appropriate measure, and not with a warm cloth, which not only does not solve the problem, but also amplifies it. In fact, this will certainly be an inductive measure of growth, colleagues - yes, of growth - but of the litigation that will arise from it. All those who have been excluded from the scope of operation of this decree-law, and will not receive the famous 70 euro bonuses - which we have decided to call malus, because certainly giving less to less people cannot represent a bonus - will have the right to appeal to the judicial authority to have reason for their claim, institutionally recognized by a judgment of the Constitutional Court, which you colleagues teach me to be valid erga omnes and immediately applicable from the time of publication in the Official Journal. We are aware, ladies and gentlemen - must we at least be aware of the mistakes we are making - that we are going to create new constitutional conditions from this? Let's avoid this. We avoid using the wrong tool again, in the wrong way, with even more wrong content. In the Commission we have tried to remedy this disease by presenting a limited number - we will say it much more widely and comprehensively in general discussion - but fundamental amendments, in order to ensure that this right, recognised by the Constitutional Court, is also recognised as ex-lege. In the absence of this recognition, they will be resorted, they will be pains, they will be problems, it will be new discredit on the political class. We have tabled a limited number of amendments, but they have been rejected, because once again the train of decree-laws does not stop at the senate station. We have seen this move through quickly, but we have not had a chance - and I fear we will not have it here either - to change a comma. This is profoundly unfair and mortifying, and not only for our parliamentary group, which raises this question with the hope of interrupting the path of yet another unfortunate decree, but also for all of us who must witness unjust management of institutional prerogatives. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u38	He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u39	Mr President, we have decided to present the preliminary question of constitutionality QP3, rigidly linking it to the same ruling as the Court. We believe that the provision in Article 1 of the measure before our examination contains, in the same premise, a fundamental error: it claims to implement the principles set out in the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 70 of 2015. The provision replaces the text of paragraph 25 of Article 24 of Decree-Law No 201 of 6 December 2011, recognised as unconstitutional by the Court, and introduces a new paragraph, on 25-a. As is well known, that decree-law, adopted by the Monti Government, had carried out a financial manoeuvre at the expense of the pension system and also of the legitimate expectations of retirement of those who were close to achieving the requirements of the pre-existing system, masking it from pension reform. The new paragraph 25 of Article 1 of the bill of conversion of the decree-law to our examination introduces some modifications declaring to implement the principles set out in the decision of the Constitutional Court. In our view, however, the provisions which it applies continue to show profiles of unconstitutionality quite similar to those denounced by the Court's judgment. The mechanisms introduced provide that the automatic revaluation of pension treatment, the so-called equalisation, recognised in accordance with the mechanism set out in Article 34 of Law No 448 of 1998, relating to the years 2012 and 2013, applies to the extent of 100% for pension treatment of up to three times the minimum amount of treatment; 40% for those above three times and less than four times the minimum treatment; 20% for treatment of more than four times; 10% for treatment of more than five times and equal to or less than six times. With this introduction, the bill of conversion of the decree-law to our examination, Act of the Senate 1993, states that the equalization of pension treatment, as established by the new paragraph 25 for the years 2012 and 2013, with regard to pension treatment of total amount greater than three times the minimum INPS treatment, is recognized only in the years 2014-2015 to the extent of 20 percent and, from 2016, to the extent of 50 percent. Looking closely at the Court's judgment, it emerges - in our opinion - that the intervention put in place by the Government with the decree-law absolutely does not respect the constitutional parameters identified by the Court and, therefore, is not able to overcome the problem of the refund to pensioners of the equalization not received in 2012-2013, on the basis of a provision of which the unconstitutionality has been established. As a result of paragraph 25, which had been declared unconstitutional, the 100% indexation was carried out on the share of pensions up to three times the minimum treatment, while the higher pensions received no revaluation. Thus, the full block of the equation operated for pensions of more than EUR 1,217 net. The automatic revaluation of pension treatment has the purpose - and this is the question, among other things, which had posed the judgment No 70 of the Constitutional Court - of dealing with the devaluation that social security benefits suffer, even in the absence of inflation, because of their continuing character. We know perfectly well that the legislation on automatic adjustment of pension treatment has undergone numerous changes. However, according to the Court, the evolution of the legislation shows that the equation is a technical instrument designed to ensure, over time, compliance with the criterion of adequacy referred to in the second paragraph of Article 38 of the Constitution, which, at the same time, lends itself to annoying the principle of sufficient remuneration referred to in Article 36 of the Constitution, and applied by the Court's case-law to all treatment of equality as deferred remuneration. It is clear - in our opinion - that in the decree-law, operating in fact only and only an intervention that does not satisfy this principle, because only for the treatment of amounts up to three times the minimum work with the hundred percent, all the elements of unconstitutionality of the old paragraph 25 found by the Constitutional Court remain. Among other things, the Court of Justice made it clear that that paragraph was unconstitutional, since not only did the mechanism introduced deviate significantly from the previous regulation - i.e. not only because the suspension lasted three years - but also because it affected pension treatment of a lower amount. It is therefore clear, at this point, that the reasons why Article 1 of the decree-law in question turns out - in our opinion - still unconstitutional are all to be found in the same reasons that led the Court to rule by judgment No 70 of 2015. The Court has, in fact, pointed out that the legislator was again proposing a distinction between groups of amounts and was not inspired by such certain criteria of progressiveness. Having said that, I move quickly to summarize what we believe to be the elements of unconstitutionality that remain in Article 1 of the decree-law under consideration and that almost with certainty, Mr President, will propose a new question of constitutionality, once Decree-Law No 65 of 2015 will be converted into law. In some time, then, we will be confronted once again with a pronunciation of unconstitutionality. Of course, it is clear that, after the recent judgment of the Constitutional Court, there has been an absolutely incredible attack on the autonomy of the Court and, therefore, we do not want the influence and pressure to have been so high that we do not re-examine the issue of unconstitutionality, which I would briefly like to summarize as follows. The decalage provided for in Article 25 does not meet any criterion of progressiveness, according to which automatic revaluation should gradually decrease as the value of the benefit increases, and thus have a greater, and non-proportional, impact on pension treatment of a lower amount. Moreover, the confirmation of the full block of the equalization for the bands of amount greater than six times the minimum treatment for the years 2012 and 2013 exceeds the time limits of the suspension that can be considered respectful of the constitutional principles. The Constitutional Court has never considered legitimate limits exceeding the consecutive period of one year. Finally, the modularity envisaged for the equation for the years 2012 and 2013, with respect to pensions of less than six times the minimum, and the zeroing of the equalisation mechanism for the higher ones are limited to recalling compliance with the principle of budgetary balance and public finance objectives. This reference is as general as that contained in paragraph 25, already declared unconstitutional. The reasons for the primacy of financial requirements over rights subject to balancing do not emerge from this, in which such strong interventions are carried out. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The choice made with the decree-law is not even supported by a redistributive ratio within the pension system of the sacrifice imposed, as happened with the suspension brought by the implementation of the so-called welfare protocol. The resources continue to be drained out of the pension system. For this reason we believe that the rule of Article 1 of the decree-law is exorbitant with respect to the discretion reserved to the legislator and violates the criterion of reasonableness, as outlined by the constitutional jurisprudence, in relation to the principles contained in Articles 36, first paragraph, and 38, second paragraph, of the Constitution. That is why we ask that we do not proceed with the examination of draft law No 1993. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u40	He asked Senator Bonfrisco to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP4. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u41	Mr President, at this point in the debate on the explanations of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, I think it is clear to all the senators in this House what is the real object of the dispute, which is of two kinds. I will be very quick in my illustration: there is a technical theme, which has been widely illustrated, on the automatic revaluation of pension treatment, which - I remember - has the aim of facing the devaluation of social security benefits, which are precisely deferred wages, even in the absence of inflation, because of their continuing character; I will then skip the technical part, which has been explained so well by the illustrious interventions that preceded me, in particular that of Senator Bernini, who, among other things, also recalled how the Court, by its judgment n. 70, declared illegitimate the rule that provided for the blocking of indexing for the two-year period 2012-2013 of pensions of greater than three times the minimum. That is what I would like to dwell on just a few minutes: if the Court has declared that rule illegal, why today, in Article 1 of Decree-Law No 65, which seeks to remedy the monstrous effects of the 2011 rule, do we continue to legislate in a discriminatory way? Why do we continue to create unequal treatment between citizens with the same rights? Why are we so clearly opposed to Article 3 of the Constitution? The confirmation of the complete block of the equalization for the bands of amount greater than six times the minimum treatment for the years 2012-2013, considered together with the block for 2014 brought of the law of stability, in fact exceeds the time limits of a suspension that can be considered respectful of the constitutional principles and confirms therefore the strong discrimination, exposing moreover the measure under consideration - as Senator Bernini has explained very well - again to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, from here to a few months. I find it absolutely wrong and profoundly unfair that a Government that legislates or a Parliament called upon to confirm the validity of a decree, as in this case, may continue to operate this form of discrimination and, even more so, to delegate to justice and the judiciary, even in its maximum form, that of the Constitutional Court, to decide and legislate in place of a Parliament that not only does not assume the responsibility for economic choices in a sustainable constitutional framework, but also the respect and the safeguard of the constitutional principle that we here in this House are called to guarantee (and before us and even more so than we are the Head of State, the maximum guarantor of that Constitution around which all Italians recognize). That is why the modularity provided for in Article 1 of this decree, with reference to pensions of less than six times the minimum, and the zeroing of the equalisation mechanism for higher ones, is limited to recalling compliance with the principle of budgetary balance and public finance objectives, ensuring that it protects the essential levels of benefits relating to civil and social rights, also in the light of the safeguarding of intergenerational solidarity. That is right, that is perfect; if it were not, however, that in this decree-law something else happens: this is the rule that we are asking today not to vote, because we are asking this Parliament not to vote on a text that not only does not address the issue in its right direction, that is, constitutionality, but that on the substance and economic content concerns and addresses at most 11 or 12% of that gigantic mass of billions that we have taken away from the pockets of those pensioners, blocking their equalization, and that we have obviously used - someone has done so - to do something else. The Court's is not just a warning. The Court has rewritten the rule correctly: it is certainly up to us, the Government and Parliament today to make the priority choices to ensure that this rule is respected in the context of economic and financial sustainability. What comes out of this decree, however, does not go anywhere near the objective that the Court has given us and, above all, turns us away from seeing Italian pensioners recognize their right. I think it is therefore more correct, in not always entrusting to the fate of appeals and disputes the application of justice and the balance of public finance balances, to know how to apologize to the Italians to whom this damage was done by those who voted this rule at the time. The best way to apologise to the Italians, Mr President, is to call on all of us and the Government today to work to correct this decree which repeats a mistake already made by others. I do not want to speculate politically, electorally or otherwise about the damage this rule has done to the Italians: I just want to invite this House to assume its responsibility, to find a much greater balance, more important and significant for the overall interest of the country system, but above all of the Italian retired citizens, than the one identified by the Government with this measure. That is why - and I conclude, Mr President - the Italian Reformists Group, the Conservatives Group, draws the senators to the obligation of defending the Constitution, if we do not want to continue to feed and create reactions against a policy which cannot take on its responsibilities and which does not fully fulfil its duty, first of all within the parliamentary classrooms. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u42	He asked Senator Morra to speak in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP5. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u43	Mr President, with the question for a preliminary ruling, QP5, which we propose, we ask that the Senate, when examining the draft law of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 65 of 21 May 2015 laying down urgent provisions on pensions, social shock absorbers and TFR guarantees, decided not to proceed to the examination of draft law No 1993. It should be noted that the decree under consideration was born from the need to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court n. 70 of 2015, which recognized the constitutional illegitimacy of Article 24, paragraph 25, of Decree-Law n. 201 of 6 December 2011, in the part in which it provided that, in consideration of the contingent financial situation, the automatic revaluation of pension treatment, according to the mechanism established by Article 34, paragraph 1, of Law n. 448 of 23 December 1998, is granted, for the years 2012 and 2013, exclusively to pension treatment of total amount up to three times the minimum INPS treatment, to the extent of 100 percent; judgment n. 70 of 2015 considered that the rule declared unlawful on the suspension of the automatic equalization is detrimental to the fundamental rights related to the social security relationship, based on unequivocal constitutional parameters: the proportionality of the treatment of quiescenza, understood as deferred remuneration (art. 36 first paragraph, Cost) and adequacy (art. 38, second paragraph, Cost.==References====External links== This latter right, states the judgment, is to be understood as a certain expression, even if not explicit, of the principle of solidarity referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution and at the same time the implementation of the principle of substantive equality referred to in Article 3, second paragraph, of the Constitution.More specifically, the judgment noted that the non-attribution for two years of the automatic equalisation for pension treatment of a total amount greater than three times the minimum treatment INPS constitutes a restrictive measure which has permanent effects on the amount of the pension and that the treatments covered by the standard are considerably less than those subject to another measure of suspension of the equation, recognised legitimate by the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 316 of 5 October-3 November 2010. The latter has declared legitimate the norm referred to in Article 1, paragraph 19, of Law No 247 of 24 December 2007, which excluded, for the year 2008, the application of the automatic equalization for pension treatment of a total amount exceeding eight times the minimum INPS treatment. The treatment which was the subject of this exclusion, in accordance with the judgment in Case No 316, for its rather high amount, had a margin of resistance to erosion caused by the inflationary phenomenon. Judgment No 70 of the Court of First Instance found that this case was different from the treatment covered by the provision declared unlawful. Also according to judgment No 70, the limits of reasonableness and proportionality have been met, which has resulted in prejudice to the power to acquire the pension treatment. It should also be considered that, while bearing in mind the current serious economic situation, which implies the need for the State to also resort to extraordinary measures aimed at achieving the fulfilment of financial needs, the measure under consideration does not appear to be in a position to contest these requirements with those - equally if not more fundamental - constitutional provisions related to the guarantee of citizens' rights and to the respect of the fundamental principle of equality, Article 1 of the Decree-Law under consideration does not respect the indications of the Constitutional Court, which had asked to ensure the protection of the essential levels of benefits relating to civil and social rights, also according to the safeguarding of intergenerational solidarity, by bringing in Article 24 of Decree-Law No 201 of 6 December 2011, changes which are not suitable to make the provisions censored in the ranks of constitutionality. The lack of recognition, albeit partial for some levels of amounts, of the revaluation then harms the preservation of the value of the purchase of the pension over time, contrary to Article 38, second paragraph, of the Constitution and Article 36, first paragraph, of the Constitution, as the persistent and substantial blocking of the equalization would undermine the principle of proportionality between the pension, which constitutes the extension of pay in constancy of work, and the pay treatment received during the work. Failure to adjust wages and their reduction in real terms with permanent effects, even if the blockade is formally temporary, as there is no appropriate mechanism for recovery, also results in a violation of Articles 3, 53, 36 and 38 of the Constitution. This block affects pensioners, a group which is weak by age and is unable to adjust their income, as the Constitutional Court has pointed out, according to which the income derived from pension treatment does not, for this reason, have a different and minori generis nature than the other income taken as reference, for the purposes of compliance with Article 53 of the Constitution, which does not allow at all pious treatment of certain categories of income from work, as already stated in the judgment n. 116 of 2013. The extremely partial adaptation introduced by the decree in question then takes up the measure of interruption of the equalisation system already established at the time by Law No 247 of 24 December 2007, which was, however, limited only to pension treatment exceeding eight times the minimum INPS treatment, although the Constitutional Court, by judgment n. 316 of 2010, had already advised the legislator not to repeat measures aimed at paralysing the equalisation mechanism. The constitutional vice of the measure emerges, where the nature of deferred remuneration of ordinary pensions has now been definitively recognised by the Constitutional Court. The higher tax levy compared to other categories is more discriminatory, since it is charged on income now consolidated in their amount, linked to work benefits already rendered by citizens who have exhausted their working life, compared to which it is no longer possible to redesign the employment relationship on a synergistic basis, resulting in the violation of Articles 3 and 53 of the Constitution. There is also a conflict with Articles 3, 23 and 53 of the Constitution, since a considerable sacrifice is imposed on a single category of citizens, incurring in violation of the principle of equality, because of the unequal treatment that can be seen in the different forecast of property benefits for persons with similar incomes. There is also a violation of the principle of the citizen's trust in legal security, guaranteed by Article 3 of the Constitution, since pensioners adapt their life plans to the forecasts of their own economic availability, which would prejudice the life expectancy of the latter. The interest of pensioners, particularly the holders of lower social security benefits, is directed to the preservation of the purchasing power of the sums received, from which the right to an adequate social security benefit derives in consequence. This right, which is constitutionally well founded, is unreasonablely sacrificed in the name of financial requirements not described in detail in the measure under consideration. Finally, once again, the substantial transfer of legislative power from Parliament to the Government, which has already been aggravated by the proliferation of the use of the decree of urgency, refers to a text that does not present those characteristics of homogeneity that the Constitutional Court itself has, still recently, emphasized, as implicitly provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution. In fact, in addition to the aforementioned provisions in Article 1, provisions are juxtaposed concerning refinancing measures for social shock absorbers and solidarity contracts, changes to the capitalization criteria for the contributory pillar, authentic interpretation of rules, INPS payments, and end-of-term treatment. For all these reasons, it is requested not to proceed with the examination of draft law No 1993. I would also like to add, Mr President, that we are here to remedy a situation produced by colleagues who, with almost impeccable arguments, have asked to correct a measure which they themselves voted for. As a result, at least, we must return to memory and consistency, and when we intervene in law we must do so with reasonableness, even if our Constitution is trampled on every day by this Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u44	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u47	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, I only have a few minutes to leave a record in the proceedings of this House of a debate which has obviously already taken place in our Commission and to say, without any controversy, that the measures must be read in their entirety and thus the judgments. In this case, I refer to judgment No 70 of this year of the Constitutional Court, cited several times, which, I repeat, must be read in its entirety. Before entering into the substance of the judgment, I believe that on this occasion the Government has behaved absolutely cautiously, also from the temporal point of view, respecting the times and addressing with due sensitivity the problem under consideration. We need to take two elements into account. One concerns the reasoning of the judgment, filed on 30 April 2015 (the measure is dated 21 May, therefore twenty-one days later), and the other concerns the verification of financial availabilities. In fact, everything we are doing, especially after the adoption of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 2012, must be put to the vote in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, in the sense that there must always be a balanced budget. On the subject, I believe that in this case we are faced with a judgment which gives very precise indications. I say this because sentences must be read and interpreted, and not taken as something that must be carried out without taking responsibility. In this case the government, with the decree-law, has assumed its responsibilities and we are doing so in this House. What does this sentence say? It is true, the judgment finally declares the unconstitutionality of the legislation cited by all and, that is, Article 24, paragraph 25, of Decree-Law No 201 of 6 December 2011, issued at the time of the Monti Government and converted into Law No 214 of 22 December 2011. Inconstitutionality is declared by contrast with Articles 36 and 38 (then also refers to Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution). In the explanatory statement of the judgment the Court states very clearly and, on the contrary, is unbalanced in clarifying that this injury is due to the fact that there is no trace or, at least, that the Court itself considers inadequate the balance of interests which could have sacrificed interests and rights acquired by private individuals and, therefore, in this case by pensioners, who are weak persons, which therefore should and should be preserved more than any other category. Many of us voted for that measure. At the time of the Monti Government I was in the Chamber of Deputies and I voted on it and it seemed that we had to vote on it all because it was so obvious the seriousness of the financial situation that we did not stop in detail to check it on an accounting basis. The Court did not consider the reference to the quota as appropriate to justify the sacrifice of pensioners' rights. This seems to me to be the fundamental dictation. The Court not only says that there has been an unfair contraction in rights, but also that, in the face of this contraction of this failure to respect Articles 36 and 38 of the Constitution, there has been no reason to support this point. At the time, the constitutional law amending Article 81 had not entered into force. Now it is too easy to talk about the past, at a distance of time; probably those who wrote the norm - and we who voted for it - did not motivate adequately. This would not be the case today because Article 81 requires a balanced budget and, therefore, the constitutional principles before us are no longer those set out in Articles 36 and 38, but also those set out in Article 81 and many others. I have mentioned these to say those involved in this matter, which has been so well illustrated by the rapporteur and, therefore, I do not speak on the subject. Moreover, the prejudices on which we shall vote against contain a reconstruction which is respectful of the facts and, therefore, I do not speak. On Rule 81, I would like to continue to draw the House's attention to the fact that there is another sentence that I would quote. It is the judgment no. 10 of February 2015. It precedes the judgment on pensions of one month (the case law of the Court must look at it in its complexity). In this judgment, which is motivated in a very precise and appropriate manner, even if it concerns another matter, the Court says that the role entrusted to it as the guardian of the Constitution in its entirety requires that the declaration of constitutional illegitimacy of a provision of law does not lead paradoxically to effects even more incompatible with the Constitution. On this basis, the Court states that, with regard to the power of the Court to regulate the effects of its decisions and their limitations, it must be noted that, in this case, retroactive application - I do not refer to a completely different subject matter - creates a serious breach of the budgetary balance within the meaning of Article 81 and reiterates, as it had already stated in another judgment, that this principle requires gradual implementation of constitutional values which impose significant budgetary burdens. This is true of fortiori after the entry into force of the constitutional law which we referred to earlier. In declaring the vote against the prejudices of the Group of the Democratic Party I say that today, faced with the expectations of thousands of people - I cannot quantify how many people have these expectations - it is easy to take sides on the weak side and pensioners and wish to be able to contribute to their decorum and quality of life at the best of our availability. However, we have to deal today - and looking at the international scene we have to start to understand that these accounts must be made more and more preventive, without waiting for negative events to happen - with the funds available, that the Government has managed to find and that the Ministry of Economy has made available, and with respect to these funds we have to check whether the staggering that has been proposed is reasonable. If this is the approach from the point of view of the principles and context, it seems to me that the one we are examining is absolutely a measure of which to ensure the conversion into law and in respect of which the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, which lead in the opposite direction not to proceed to the vote, are absolutely to be rejected, out of a sense of responsibility as well as out of conviction. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u50	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the question referred for a preliminary ruling has been raised about a measure of reparation that the Government has been forced to take in relation to a judgment of the Constitutional Court which calls upon the Government itself and Parliament to a stricter respect for the rights acquired by retired workers and above all to certain criteria which must be observed when intervening in the field of public finance in order to reduce, reduce or cancel legitimate expectations and rights acquired by persons. This is also a very topical issue, so I feel that I am developing not so much technical reasoning, but political reasoning. We have come to the decision to intervene on the blocking of the updating of the purchasing power of pensions precisely at a time when, due to a financial and economic crisis in which our country had also ended, there was a need to find resources, to give signals - this is today's issue - to the European Union of greater attention to public finances. What do you decide to do at that stage, when the government could have intervened on different sectors of public spending? It is decided to intervene in this specific area of public expenditure, i.e. on the rights of retired workers by now and to do so, for a slice of them, in a way that is considered by the Constitutional Court itself not sufficiently assessed from the point of view of the proportionality of the contribution to public finance. After that, it happens that the Constitutional Court, after the time, intervenes, the Government takes note of it and produces a measure which, according to the Government, would have in itself a response to the observations of the Court, but which, instead, seems to us all to confirm the same attitude that is at the basis of the adoption of the first measure, reducing only the audience of those who end up being part of this system of reduction or cancellation of rights acquired by retired workers. The answers we have to give here are mainly two. First of all, we must understand whether our transfer of sovereignty to the criteria defined on a European basis and relating to public expenditure must also be such as to determine the quality of the interventions to be adopted by the Government in order to reduce debt and to contain expenditure, or whether, at least, the quality of the interventions to be adopted is in the full availability of the national Government and Parliament. The second question that arises is whether, in the context of possible interventions, the acquired rights, i.e. the pact concluded between the State and the citizen, should be affected, in particular as regards social security treatment. In fact, social security treatment - we have to say - is the one that matures on the basis of the rules that have been given, very often also through pacts and agreements, the State and the citizens, in return, not only of the activity and of the professional performance, but also of an economically significant contribution. This is the point that is not remedied by the measure that is now before us: the point of choosing the scope of intervention in the field of public finance (the principle of balance of budget and Article 81 of the Constitution can be respected by intervening in other areas of expenditure). The other element is the breach of the pact, i.e. the change of the rule after workers and businesses (i.e. one of the contracting parties) responded positively with their contribution, on the basis of existing rules. At a time when, once they have paid their dues, the workers go to cash, the rule changes and, therefore, they do not perceive how much they owe. It seems to me that, from this point of view, the measure we are examining leaves all the area still compromised and it is very likely that, in the end, on this matter, the Constitutional Court, on interventions by possible applicants, will have to speak again and, probably, again adversely about the measure presented by the Government. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u51	I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator Divine and other Senators (QP1), Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators (QP2), Senator De Petris and other Senators (QP3), Senators Bonfrisco and Bruni (QP4) and Senator Catalfo and other Senators (QP5). It's not approved. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u52	Mr President, with this decree-law that, as we know, has been baked by Renzi, Poletti and Padoan (that others are only our suburban troika), there is confirmation of the terror that pervades the Government and the majority, that collapses the castle of the clientele system. Precisely so, since not even a sentence of the Constitutional Court restrains the Government from its intentions to withdraw from the pockets of the citizens the money that serves to maintain various levels of complicity; useful complicity to manipulate the electoral consent and to guarantee to all supporters an adequate profit. (18.21) (Follows PETROCELLI). The Renzi Government is no longer sufficient for exquisitely lobbying measures; the fairness of professional orders and privileged social categories is no longer enough; the always valid occupational blackmail is no longer enough; the spending reviews that never reduce waste, but only services, are no longer enough. Now the Government and the majority - who will vote in favour of this decree, we know - intend in fact to disregard a decision of the Constitutional Court, and this in order to gain time and postpone the reforms useful to make our country free and transparent. A sentence that, indeed, has begun to dismantle the Fornero reform that, let us never forget, is the mother of all the recent nefariousness against workers and pensioners; nefariousness that our suburban troika, to which I referred earlier, sells to the country as necessary, urgent and revolutionary measures, but that are only the pieces placed to partially repair the obvious unconstitutionality of the Fornero reform and that, in addition, continue to fix unsustainable stakes. The last stake, but no less infamous than the previous one, is the one relating to distributions to variable percentages of equalizations based on pension treatment bands. Apart from the fact that it seems to me that the Constitution does not admit stakes among Italian citizens, I would like to stress that the automatic revaluation of pensions cannot be a bonus, it cannot be a prize offered by the Government, because it is the restoration of a wrong, the return of a right that the previous suburban troika had made disappear. This revaluation, contrary to what the Government predicts, should be restored in full and for all pensioners, at 100% of the situation prior to the ill-fated Fornero law and with the addition of all accrued interest, except for the lack of equalizations to those who have a pension of at least 4000 euros per month, so at least respecting another judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2010, which declares legitimate the lack of equalization for those who have a pension eight times higher than the minimum provided by the INPS. I am an atheist and secular, but I have faith in the Constitution, because a book that is democratic and shared in politics must exist, otherwise it is anarchy or worse, as it is happening, it is a regime. In politics it is not like in religion: the unbelievers are punished before they ascend to heaven. For this decree-law the Government will be punished by another appeal, which will cost more money to the State and will cost another legal slap on the face of Prime Minister Renzi. In fact, the Court's judgment states that the interest of pensioners, particularly those with low social security benefits, is directed to the preservation of the purchasing power of the sums received, from which it derives in a consequent manner, the right to an adequate social security benefit. This constitutionally well-founded right is unreasonably sacrificed in the name of non-detailed financial requirements. Allow me that a reform against people such as the Fornero law could never explain in detail anything, as they do not illustrate, but rather approximate, the economic data on which the government generally bases its decisions. I believe that these are methods that the Government has in its DNA, as demonstrated by Article 7 of the measure under consideration, where the guarantees on the discipline of the FTT are reviewed. In conclusion, Renzi, after having reduced the Italians with water to the throat through fossil economic policies, tries to steal the TFR putting it in pay envelope, so as to bypass the tax facilitated that it normally enjoys; however, this time it went badly to him and to the suburban troika because the Italian people is yes to the exhausted, but it is not stupid, so much so that less than 1 percent has bitten at this trap. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u53	He is registered to speak Senator D'ambrosio Lettieri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the debate that has also developed outside Parliament's classrooms on the subject of pensions and I believe that it is perfectly in line with the arguments that have been put forward in support of the prejudices presented today by the senators of various political groups. In my opinion, at the basis of everything there is an issue on which an additional attention must be recovered: that of the welfare of our country in the times of the crisis, that is, the effect that the crisis has on our socio-assistant policies, those of social security and health care in general, and how we will be able to preserve, not only the acquired rights, but also the sort of social cohesion that we have managed to build by keeping wide the umbrella of protection on the world of fragility, the intergenerational pact. The subject comes into this very topic that has become central and we would do very badly to deal with it superficially with partisan logics and insufficient from the perspective of that construction of a reality that is a guarantee even after the times of the crisis. I also appreciated the effort that Mrs Lo Moro made just now to try to recover, alongside the constitutional dictation provided for in Articles 36 and 38, also Article 81 of the Constitution. I agree with Mr Uras that this issue should not be dealt with from a purely technical point of view, because we would make a big mistake. We must tackle this by recovering the political principles that inspire our work to respect the Constitution, because Article 81 has been amended - and even then there has been a broad debate - in order to try to combine legislative changes with the ability to bear its economic burdens: in essence, a sort of stability pact which, we know very well, forced us to deliver out of the national perimeters a large part of national sovereignty. However, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today the Bank of Italy reminds us that there is a new record of Italian public debt, which has risen to about 2,218 billion, thus increasing, compared to May 2014, by over 23 billion euros. Therefore, there is no Article 81 that respects the need to guarantee not only the acquired rights, but the minimal conditions for exercising the right of the citizen to see his or her dignity preserved. Instead, instead of using the sharp scissors of a government more prone to the cutting of rights, which has resulted in a real social butchery, we could proceed to the cutting of unproductive public spending, which should have represented the reservoir from which to draw resources, putting a definitive word and putting an end to the looting of public resources, to the expenditure that we support for an overall system that the country can no longer afford, with waste, waste, when not corruptions that are absolutely unacceptable. In the face of such a scenario, which is increasingly prejudiced by social cohesion, the Government does not even show that it takes into account the assessment, the suggestion, the judgment of the judge of the laws. Yet that sentence is very clear about the profiles of illegality that see our Constitution vulnerated and also about the suggestions that the Constitutional Court offers to the Government, as a sort of lifesaver to recover in extremis the error made by Decree-Law No. 201 of 2011, converted into the famous law that we have commented, with different nuances, but with tendential notes of censorship. One thinks that wandering is human and would never want to think that the famous saying of "persevering is diabolical" must enter overpoweringly into the legislative dynamics of Parliament's classrooms; instead, we realize that that opportunity that was offered to correct the mistakes made and restore dignity to citizens, workers, pensioners is absolutely not grasped, with a series of funambolias representing a perverse deception towards honest workers, who today find themselves in a condition close to despair. Perhaps only the government did not realize that the pension today is not only for the pensioner, but also for the children of that pensioner, who are deprived of work and of any prospect of social protection in the future and that from that pension they were able to find the reasons to keep up what remains of a dignity reduced today to shreds. We have, with great tenacity and with a constructive spirit (I would like to say with responsibility) drawn up amendments. Article 1 must be amended. We are still in time to recover the error, avoiding that it propagates as a great success what is actually a bluff, a deception that, on the altar of despair of our community, offers itself as a port far from reassuring. I hope that the debate can represent a serene moment of confrontation, of resistence, of recovery of a road of reconstruction of the country, so that from that famous policy of austerity, which was to combine sacrifices with development and growth, from Monti, passing through Letta and today with Renzi, a little 'of common sense and a little 'of judgment; they recover and better administer economic resources, they cut waste to guarantee the rights of citizens, especially those less wealthy, cutting unproductive public spending and certainly not the sources of livelihood of a community that today sees imploding the intergenerational pact and that sees placed in serious condition of prejudice the social cohesion within the country. On this basis, Madam President, I hope that in the amending phase the proposal of the Italian Parliamentary Conservatories' Group, Reformists, will find the expected and desired acceptance in order to preserve our democracy and preserve as much as possible that welfare assistance and social security that represented a distinctive figure of our tradition and our civilization. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u55	Senator Munerato is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u56	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we all know in this House how and why the measure under consideration is born. By judgment No 70 of 2015 the Constitutional Court declared the illegality of the Fornero law, by which the block of indexing for the 2012-2013 two-year period for pensions exceeding three times the minimum (equivalent to 1,443 euro gross monthly). As Article 136 of the Constitution states, when a rule is declared unlawful, it shall cease to be effective. This means that, in the absence of any intervention by the Government, since the judgment immediately applied, the situation prior to Fornero would automatically have been restored, i.e. the indexing mechanism for groups of amounts referred to in Law No 388 of 2000. This mechanism - the Government has repeatedly supported - would have resulted in an increase in the unsustainable pension expenditure and with high probability the opening of a procedure for excessive deficit against our country for failure to respect the criterion of deficit and debt. In other words, the Government would not have been able to bear the cost of about 17.6 billion euros (to this extent the burden, according to estimates of the same Government) to respect the constitutional pronunciation, so it chose to proceed to a flat-rate refund, and only on pension treatments between three and six times the minimum treatment. What puzzles the Federalism Group Autonomy and Freedom is the path that the Government has chosen to follow, which looks more like a patch, a palliative, in order to immediately combine the expectations of pensioners with those of Europe, postponing in the near future the possible consequences. I am referring to the class action promoted by Codacons, which would lead to worsening consequences for our public finances and European budgetary balances if it were to be found. The problem is that the mistake is upstream, or better than Monti, because in 2011, always to respect the diktats of Europe, he chose to make cash with certain categories, i.e. pensioners. And today the Renzi Government persists in that error by choosing the path of mini-refunds instead of the full implementation of the decision of the Consulta, leaving to the next Government - we hope that it is no longer center-left - the legacy of future pieces and races to repair. That is why we hope for a constructive debate in this House that can lead the parliamentary and government majority to have a more forward-looking view of the issue and show openness to the adoption of certain amendments to the improved oppositions to the text. With regard to the improvements and other interventions on pensions that the Government could and should take, I recall the acceptance in the Commission of the merit of two of our agendas that commit the Government to intervene in the next law of stability for the reduction of the taxation on pensions and the extension of the bonus of 80 euros to pensioners with only one pension treatment of medium to low amount less than five times the minimum treatment, that is to say to approximately 2,500 euros gross). Obviously, the hope is that this is not a mockery and that this acceptance will not remain a dead letter. In any case, we will watch and we will not fail to remind the government of the commitments made. However, the decree-law is not entirely negative. It contains measures that are more than acceptable in their aims, but - alas - limited in scope. I am referring to the measures to increase resources for social shock absorbers by way of derogation and those relating to the fisheries sector. However, I believe that the figures allocated are insufficient to cover the demand area. That is why the amendments we have signed are designed to increase the refinancing. Equally acceptable is the intervention on the refinancing of solidarity contracts, an important tool for managing corporate crises. However, as already expressed during the debate in the Commission, it is feared that these resources will also be insufficient to cover the current year's needs, since they will have funding priorities for all the requests made in 2014 and still lying unfulfilled due to lack of resources. I hope, therefore, that the Government's commitment to this issue, with the adoption of another agenda of ours in the Commission, concerning the realization of a meticulous recognition of the requests made in 2014, to their quantification and, if necessary, to a further refinancing in order to meet the requests of 2015, will be implemented as soon as possible. I conclude my speech with these wishes, hoping - I repeat - for a constructive debate and without any foreclosure whatsoever. [[Applause from Senator Bellot]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u57	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u58	Madam President, the adjustment of pensions to the cost of living is nothing more than a fair forecast by which the legislator aims to ensure appropriate means of life for those who are unable to work for age limits, through a proportionate pension, capable of providing the pensioner and his family with a free and dignified existence. This is what is derived from the combined provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 38 and paragraph 1 of Article 36, of our Constitutional Charter. The block introduced by the legislation, fortunately then censored by the Court, reiterated, making it more burdensome, the measure of interruption of the equalization system, first sanctioned in 2007. The problem is the recurrence of a rule that blocks the equalisation mechanism. At the time, in 2007, the blockage of the equalization system had been operated on treatments above eight times the minimum, but already in that place there was a warning not to repeat the measure, especially if in a limited period of time, so as to transform the block into an unreasonable paralysis. Illegality lies precisely in this and the rules do not even provide for a subsequent recovery mechanism for what has been reset in the past. It is obvious that there are situations in which the seriousness of the economic situation facing the State can also justify the use of exceptional instruments, with the aim of reconciling the satisfaction of financial interests with the guarantee of services to citizens, in compliance with the fundamental principles of equality. In this case, however, it is not only done a first time, but it is repeated several times a few years later and retired people are the ones who lose their jobs. This is your political choice. Let us be clear: it is your political choice! [[Applause from Senator Blundo]] On the other hand, if you wanted to provide for needs such as the contingent financial situation, you would have had to do so through ordinary taxation, increased gambling taxation, cuts in blue cars, cuts in publishing and party finance, cuts in military spending, increased banking and insurance taxation, reduced gold rents, cuts in parliamentary allowances and public administration advice, and cuts in the vitalities of the mafia. [[Applause from Senator Blundo]] and not to those who have a pension of 1,600 euros gross, which become 1,200 and or 1,100 net! Let's be clear to who you're taking the money from: let's be clear! Shame! The citizen should trust the state and the rule, as it should embody the principle of legal security, so-called legal certainty. Pensioners are unable to have any other form of income, we know that they can no longer work and that pension and that amount of money have been the basis on which the life programmes have adapted. You are undermining the life expectancy of pensioners: you have deceived them with the word " bonus " and instead to a small part of them you simply gave back what you took illegally and used that word, " bonus." You have also included another word in the provision - which must absolutely be removed - to create, in my opinion, a confrontation between generations, between young and old, because you need it on TV, to pull someone on your side. Shame: you have also included in the provision descriptions that suggest that it serves precisely to create intergenerational solidarity, shame! Other than intergenerational solidarity, you must remove that word, because it is hypocritical. Another thing, the taxation of the TFR: once again, let's speak clearly, you wanted to advertise. You talked about TFR in paychecks, but then, if you go to see it, taxation is the ordinary one. But no: the taxation of TFR in paychecks, at that point, must be separated, equal to the anticipations of the TFR. I, for example, have already told employers and workers in this House not to take it and agree: there is the civil code, fortunately, which gives them the opportunity to agree, so that, if the worker needs it every month, he only needs to apply to the employer and he will give it to him, so that it becomes an anticipation of the TFR subject to separate taxation. Fortunately, this TFR in pay envelope took it in few, because they understood the trick and there were no falls. I think one thing, in short: if you have advertised the TFR in paycheck, why haven't you applied the taxation more favourable to the worker? You're giving something in pay envelope, but applying a higher tax: it's as if you're exploiting a person's time of crisis, shame! Once again, shame! We have proposed an amendment, and on this please do not demagogy, coming to the House to say "ah, how nice, then we will do it, one tomorrow: we have welcomed pensioners," as you have already done, but then you never do. Our amendment will ensure that this paid TFR is subject to the same taxation as the advance payments: vote for him! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u59	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as everyone knows, Decree-Law No 65 of 2015, of which we are discussing today the conversion into State law, stems from the need to define a pension adjustment mechanism of more than three times the minimum for the years 2012-2013. This measure, which has its political focus in Article 1, fully follows the spirit of the government's economic policies: it does not return what is due to pensioners, but assigns them - not to all entitled persons, with a clear violation of Article 3 of the Constitution - a small bonus calculated in contempt of the constitutional principles set out in Articles 36 and 38 of the Constitution. By simplifying the reasoning, this discrimination between citizens referred to in Article 1 of Decree-Law No 65, combined with the fact that the right is not returned, applying the mechanism referred to in Article 69 (1) of Law No 388 of 2000, which in fact returns to being the natural reference after the Court's ruling for the purposes of calculating the revaluation, does not solve the problem of having the Court's provisions complied with. On the contrary, this discrimination is likely to lead - as it would seem logical to expect - to a new wave of appeals that will clog the courts and the natural landing place of which can only be the Constitutional Court which will once again be called upon to express its opinion on this measure. The modularity provided for in Article 1 of Decree-Law No 65 of 21 May 2015, for the equalization of the years 2012 and 2013 with reference to pensions of less than six times the minimum and the zeroing of the equalisation mechanism for the higher ones, is limited to recalling the respect of the principle of budgetary balance and the objectives of public finance, ensuring the protection of the essential levels of benefits related to civil and social rights, also in function of the safeguard of intergenerational solidarity. This reference is as general as that contained in paragraph 25, which has already been declared unconstitutional. From it do not emerge the reasons for the prevalence of the financial needs over the rights subject to balance, in which the Government wants to carry out interventions so strongly detrimental to the acquired rights. The responsibility of Parliament and in particular of the Senate is great and millions of pensioners today and future pensioners tomorrow, they look at us and will judge us also by their vote. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Representative of the Government, on the one hand, we have a very heavy burden, despite the fact that the Council has not done so because it has rightly considered the legitimate reasons and rights of citizens as a priority in relation to the needs of the budget, to make sustainable proposals and in line with the obligations arising from Article 81 of the Constitution; on the other hand, we have a duty to guarantee the protection of citizens with regard to legal certainty and especially acquired rights, in which they must continue to put their trust. We Italian Conservatives and Reformists would have expected a measure to give full effect to the effects of the Court's ruling, but unfortunately this was not the case. We would have expected a measure to give back to those entitled; instead, we note that this is not the case as a result of the measure under consideration. So, Madam President, it is clear that this measure places the burden of judgment No 70 on a single category of citizens, on pensioners. In fact, by not returning the sums due, a new tax is imposed on pensioners. This confirms that the Democratic Party, which today is in the government of the country, is the tax party, the party that taxes pensioners and takes away their due despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has been very clear in its pronunciation, the party that talks about revision of unproductive public spending, but that has not produced a euro of savings to date. We need respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and that is why - as I have just announced - my vote on this measure can only be against it. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u61	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u62	Madam President, the important part of this measure is undoubtedly Article 1, which deals with what we call the mortal leaps that the Government is making to comply with a legal obligation. Mortal jumps, because you want to avoid applying a Constitutional Court ruling that eliminates a rule. And, when the Court removes a rule, this means that it is only necessary to restore ex ante the previous legislation. If we look at the other part of the measure, the one from Article 2 to Article 7 (which essentially concerns the refinancing of social buffers by way of derogation, more resources for the fisheries sector, etc.), we could say that these are needs that can be transposed and voted on and that can also be done well. On indexing, however, it's crazy. We have not one, not two, not three, but even four measures, which we could also sum up. The first is the 2001 budget, which says that the revaluation automatically triggers and identifies the famous three bands (100 per cent, 90 per cent and 75 per cent), depending on whether the pension is up to three times, three to five times or more than five times the minimum pension. Let's remember that, when we talk about a pension equal to five times the minimum treatment (which seems an exaggerated thing), it means 2,400 euros gross monthly, ergo, net, about 1,700 euros. I do not think we can call rich pensioners with such an income. Probably, if we do the current accounts, this is the survival income so that we don't fall into the poverty line. The second measure is the famous 2011 maneuver. Then we have a third measure and it is what interests us, that is the Monti-Fornero, that applies the total block for the 2012-2013 biennium even to those who exceed three times the minimum. Three times the minimum means 1,440 euro gross, little less than 1,200 euro net. For the former Minister Fornero and for President Monti these were rich pensioners, who could be asked for a sacrifice. It is not over, because we arrive at the Letta Government of 2014, which recalculates the revaluation - fortunately - by reintroducing the thresholds (100, 95, 75 and 50 per cent), also here starting from pensions equal to three times the minimum treatment up to pensions that exceed five times the minimum treatment. The Court intervenes only on one part, i.e. only on Salva Italia, i.e. Monti-Fornero, which had the total block, in the years 2012 and 2013, for those who exceeded the minimum pension three times. Well, what did the government mean and what was it supposed to do? Simple, it was the same Court that said this: return and application of the law that survived, namely Law No 388 of 2000, reintroducing the three thresholds (100, 90 and 75 percent) for pensions up to three times, from three to five times and over five times the minimum treatment. What emerges? Because then the statements are held and are in the record. What does Padoan say? The Minister for Economic Affairs says that an implementation of the judgment, resulting in the application of the ex-lege indexing mechanism n. 388 of 2000 (exactly what the Court says), would have resulted in an increase in pension expenditure in 2015 which was unsustainable, preventing Italy from complying with European budgetary rules. We understand, but why was only pensioners asked for a sacrifice to support European standards? It has been said not to touch them, because otherwise it breaks out. And we know why: some 17.6 billion had to be raised in order to be corrected against pensioners. Renzi, exactly after Monti, continues on the path of sacrificing the category of pensioners, also because it is very easy. Who has the list of taxpayers? The state and the social security institution have it. Being in their hands, it is very easy to give or not give or even avoid delivering what is their due. In fact, you chose the most comfortable route. Nothing is given; indeed, no, a small flat-rate contribution is given, so much so as not to irritate the Court and give an entirely renzian interpretation to the judgment of last April. A warning: we put this government on the alert. I do not know if you have followed this story: the court of Naples, on 29 May, in front of the appeal of a pensioner, has given reason to the applicant who has appealed against the blocking of indexing. This is the first obstacle. Second. Codacons has already started a class action, which has already joined more than 5,000 pensioners: it is open and will surely be added many more. If these are to be recognized their rights and righted, how much resources will they need? That's 17 billion. Surely what has not been given, the damages demanded, the legal interests and the costs of justice. The government has embarked on a path, a cul de sac from which it will probably never come out again. However, we cannot fail to touch a painful button: but do the unions still exist in this country? Where'd they go? Absorbing silence of the unions. We wonder if these unions can only protest against center-right governments. I dare not even think what would have happened if reforms such as that of work (which repeals Article 18), of the school (in which we do not even hear the counterpart and let the reform fall precisely on the recipients) and of this rule (which even penalizes pensioners by interpreting the sentences) had made it a center-right government. There probably wouldn't be a square in this country that wasn't permanently occupied. It seems that under Renzi everything is allowed. You're also allowed to steal. Yes, it's a strong word, but not respecting the law and denying a right is tantamount to stealing from someone what is due to them and if you subtract something that belongs to someone is the equivalent of stealing. Well, this government can also afford to steal a few euros from those who are rich, because those who receive more than 1,200 euros net per month are rich! Well, it's not a smart one that Renzi government invented as an escamotage, but it's a real, real shame! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u63	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u64	Madam President, when the Constitutional Court issued judgment No 70, yet again, I was surprised at the distance taken by our President-in-Office of the Council, who immediately reiterated that this judgment was the daughter of the previous government. I must say that from this point of view he is not wrong, but I will return to the matter. I would remind everyone, first of all of course, that judgment No 70 seeks to resolve some of the damage caused by the Monti-Fornero reform, the reform which, in fact, began to cancel democracy in the workplace, hence the rights of workers; it has blocked the adjustment of pensions, even those of 1,200 euros (so not rich pensions); it has increased the retirement age for which, according to this reform, we should now work up to the threshold of seventy years. This, by the way, and everyone understands it - of course anyone who wants to understand it - hinders the entry of young people into the world of work and, not surprisingly, today youth unemployment exceeds 43%; but it always pretends not to understand certain things! But above all it is that reform that created 380,000 exodus, many of which, three years later, are still waiting for the matter to be resolved. Among other things, much of what has been resolved is the opposition, which has not tabled any amendments to speed up the solution to the problem. But you pretend nothing, since the oppositions are those that always say "no", but I tell you that it is not so, even if you pretend not to understand it. As we are talking about shock absorbers - and I say this to the rapporteur, Senator D'Adda, a very careful person - I repeat that a very serious decision must be taken, and not so much to do, on shock absorbers by way of derogation. And I always remember, to anyone who wants to listen, that the workers find themselves in the integration fund by way of derogation not by their will, even if someone pretends to forget it. If we do not take serious action on exodus 2.0, we will find this issue. I'm going back to Renzi. I recognise that I am a very good speaker, but I think he is a very bad politician. Renzi has distanced himself, but I want to remind everyone - here there is no need to do so and I tell those who listen to us - he has carefully chosen to form this Government subjects from that same majority who voted for that reform. So I don't know what you're talking about when, on the one hand, you distance yourself and, on the other, you surround yourself with the same people who voted for that reform with conviction. I would like to remind you that the so-called Monti-Fornero reform will unfortunately be mentioned in a negative and disastrous way in the history of this Republic, if it can still be defined as such after all that has happened. How many times in my speeches have I said that when the judiciary intervenes on purely political issues, such as what concerns us, politics has failed. I have always said this; well I was wrong. Politics has not failed, because much of this policy has unfortunately died: it has surrendered to everything we are witnessing at this time. I am seriously concerned about democracy, not just about this country. I am convinced that a true Europe is truly an indispensable resource for the world in which we live, but Europe must be true. It was enough for Greece, in the figure of the Syriza-Tsipras Government, to hold a referendum to unleash any madness. I've heard all kinds of things. I think I am a very normal person and I want to remain so: I have never worried, in my life, about the fact that ordinary people could vote on the decisions that concern you. This race for the massacre of a decent person, as far as I am concerned, which leads to a referendum does not surprise me. Coming from the world of work I know what it means not to let the workers vote and I know what referendum means for the strong powers. From this point of view, I am not at all scandalized. I can't even find the adjectives to express myself anymore. I'm just telling all the people -- I know there's a lot of careful, decent people -- to think these things through. If a referendum really provokes this disaster, I think each of us should reflect. I am also saying this because I listen very much to what the President-in-Office of the Council says. He has been very careful these days to say that the referendum was wrong, that Italy had done its homework well and that we are in place. He's the only one who sees this, because if we go around the squares, we realize that's not the case. He forgot to say - I always say this - that his duties did them, but they are not what a good government should do and, that is, respect all its citizens and not just its voters. I'll give you some examples. That's not what I say. Factories and workplaces have become barracks, but that's okay with you. For the public school I don't use adjectives; just see what happened in the squares: I don't have to add anything else to what I said by students and teachers. On the representation that is given, which means democracy, I leave to all of you the reflection on what we all say, but then we do not practice. I said before that when the judiciary intervenes on matters that should primarily concern politics, it is the death of politics. It is enough to see the opinion of ordinary people of politics, for whom the only hearing of a politician is a strange sensation. However, I would like to conclude with a reflection. I think that in democracy, especially when there is a democracy, the sentences must be respected and not interpreted, because if among the citizens passes the idea that the sentences must be interpreted, and therefore the law is equal for all but sometimes it is more equal for some - and many people unfortunately live this on their own - and if this worrying signal comes from the government, the institutions or the politics, I fear that this would not help us at all. That's what I'd like to talk about. In conclusion, I have always said that in the Commissions the debate is never true and that is what worries me the most. I must say, however, that this time this hypocrisy has been put aside by the Government, because - there are several members of the Commission who can confirm this - the representative of the Government came to the Commission and basically - of course using different words - told us not to waste time and do anything else, because the amendments would all be rejected. Well, if that's politics, wish me luck: I don't want this policy, that's all I want. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senators Bocchino and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u66	Madam President, Honourable Representative of the Government, Undersecretary Bellanova, ladies and gentlemen, in taking some consideration of the measure we are considering today, I would like to remind you first, if need be, that this regulatory intervention has first made itself necessary in relation to the provisions of the Constitutional Court's judgment No 70 of 2015 which declared the illegality of the forecasts on the non-indexing of pension treatment identified, in the context of the so-called Salva Italia maneuver, by Decree-Law No 201 of 2011. In particular, the Court considered that with the provisions censored the fundamental rights related to the social security relationship were affected, based on unequivocal constitutional parameters: the proportionality of the treatment of quiescence, understood as deferred remuneration (Article 36, first paragraph, of the Constitution) and the adequacy (Article 38, second paragraph, of the Constitution). It is against this complex framework that the Government has therefore adopted this decree, with the aim of transposing the principles affirmed by the Court in that judgment. Furthermore, I would like to point out that, on this occasion, the Consultative Committee has also accepted the legitimacy of legislative measures which affect the adjustment of the amounts of pension treatment, provided that limits of reasonableness and proportionality are respected. As indicated in paragraph 1, Article 1 of the decree-law in question therefore intends to implement the principles established by the judgment n. 70, while ensuring respect for the objectives of public finance and the principle of budgetary balance affirmed by Article 81 of the Constitution and ensuring the protection of the essential levels of benefits concerning civil and social rights, also in function of the safeguarding of intergenerational solidarity. In addition, the Decree-Law under consideration also contains urgent provisions on pensions and social shock absorbers, as well as a rule aimed at reviewing the rules on compliance and guarantees related to the advance payment of the end-of-term treatment provided for by the Stability Act for 2015. But I will not dwell on these provisions, on which, even in the course of the examination in the Commission, some convergent judgments have been made, including by colleagues from the opposition, but specifically on the provision which modulates the return of the pensions concerned, and on which the main criticisms of the text have been made. I would therefore like to draw the attention and, above all, the memory of all of us on the genesis of the provisions affected by the decision of the Consulta and remind myself, first of all, of the gravity of the situation that Italy has experienced in 2011. This was not a mere moment of crisis: the country was at risk of failure. The same possibility of honouring government bonds and, therefore, loans on public debt was under discussion; the payment of pensions and public wages was under discussion. It was therefore time to make very tough choices and assume the responsibility to decide, avoiding the country the consequences of choices, much harder and more drastic than ours, taken instead by governments of other countries of the European Union. Thanks to the interventions of those years and the reforms of these we are not today in the condition of Greece, but could again impose (although fortunately in the abstract) the use of harsh and drastic choices in order to cope with an emergency situation and difficulties. We think that at every juncture Parliament must decide and respond to the country: it must decide for reasons of public finance, of a serious state of crisis and of democratic holding. Today we can assert that those choices, together with the reforms that we have made in recent years, have allowed us, subsequently, to get out of the tunnel of the crisis, to return 80 euros to ten million people, to establish the decontribution for permanent recruitment (which, as they document the latest data of the ISTAT, is increasing the hirings indefinitely, giving back stability to the world of work), to lighten the work of the weight of the IRAP and today, with the decree-law to our examination, allows us to return almost three billion euros to pensioners of mid-range. We give back, in essence, what is possible to about four million pensioners who earn from 1,500 to 3,000 euros. Of course, more could be done. By being able, it would have been possible to return more to this mid-range and, if possible, something could have been returned to pension holders of more than 3,000 euros. This, however, is what could be done in the current state of public finance, without blocking the reform process and without breaking 3% of the deficit-to-GDP ratio. Every judgment on this measure cannot therefore forget that it is thanks to the courage of serious and responsible choices, taken at a very hard time, and thanks to the good governance of these two years that we have been able to make the reforms and we can give something back to pensioners today. It is thanks to the good governance of these two years and to the measures then if we, today, can imagine alleviating the tax burden, reducing the bureaucratic pressure and amending the so-called Fornero law, relying on concrete initiatives, which we are working on. These are the reasons why our Group strongly supports this measure. Of course, it would have been preferable to do more, but any negative judgment based on a lamented insufficiency of what is expected here is the son of that "benaltism," which is an ancient vice, especially of some political forces of this country, and that is only the a priori prejudice of those who find it easier to criticize the identification of a reformist path possible and the assumption of responsibility. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u67	Madam President, today we are talking about pensions. The current government tries to remedy the biggest error against the pension of recent years, introduced by the so-called Fornero law. In a nutshell, millions of people have been robbed by many politicians and not politicians. Today, only to name the Fornero, Italians have a deep and almost untenable sense of anger. However, I would not like to make the lady the only defendant, since the destructive work of our working and social security fabric has obviously been carried out with several hands. In fact, Fornero said: "It wasn't my fault! The measure was considered, by the Government as a whole, a necessary choice because it gave savings in the immediate future. It was 2011, and this was only the beginning of a long series of thefts that our social fabric and our democracy have undergone since then, with the ignoble silence and the endorsement of the usual servants of the information regime, always ready to make us swallow the bitter pill and sweeten it as much as possible with the spectrum of the spread and with the usual phrase: "Italians be patient, Europe asks us to be patient." On September 29, 2011, who asked us to undergo measures to "increase growth potential"? But above all, whose growth? With a letter, two people not elected by anyone, Mario Draghi and Jean-Claude Trichet, imposed their rules on the Italian people: privatization on a large scale; working conditions to be done west; the possibility of dismissals with free hands; the obligation to strangle with the balance of the budget; turnover blocks; reduction of salaries; increase of VAT; increase of the retirement age, especially for women (as you see Greece has arrived second). In short, tears and blood always required of the weakest! I do not understand that Draghi and Trichet have asked for cuts in gold pensions, cuts in political privileges, cuts in the lives of the condemned; and above all I do not remember that European finance has strongly called for a serious fight against tax evasion and the mafias, who alone would have quickly raised the country from the crisis! But the worst joke is that our sacrifices will bring us back to pre-crisis levels in 2007 in this way: we will return to a GDP per capita in 2027; to have the same expenditure for families in 2030; we will have the disposable income in 2007 even in 2034. It's a joke. Despite this, then as today, Monti, Letta and Renzi preferred to "do the homework" on the skin of the weakest sections of our country: young people, employees and pensioners! The billions stolen in the years 2012 and 2013 are 18, to about six million pensioners! But in the meantime we have found a way to fatten the banks: we remember the 4 million data at Monte dei Paschi di Siena and the 7 billion at Banca d'Italia. Without great surprises, in April 2015, a decision of the Constitutional Court came out that riddles the plans of the Government of the broad, wide, slashed understandings. Judgment No 70, filed on 30 April, provides that the rule blocking the adjustment to pension rights of more than three times the minimum INPS is unconstitutional. What is currently emerging is that the Constitutional Court has severely "boosted" Article 24, paragraph 25, of Decree-Law No 201 of 2011. The judgment considered that the rule declared unlawful on the suspension of the automatic equalisation is detrimental to the fundamental rights related to the social security relationship which is based on constitutional parameters such as Articles 36 and 38, 3, 23 and 53, since a substantial sacrifice is imposed on a single category of citizens, incurring in violation of the principle of equality. It is not conceivable to put the problem always on the weakest classes and on categories such as pensioners, who often see retirement as the only source of livelihood. Gentlemen, the current Act of the Senate 1993, which is under discussion today by this Government, does not restore a situation of fairness. In particular, Article 1 of the decree-law in question does not respect the indications of the Constitutional Court, which had requested the protection of the essential levels of benefits relating to civil and social rights, even in the light of the safeguarding of solidarity between generations. Your solution is to return little to a few, making the maltolto pass for bonuses and not return anything to many. The hot potato now passes into Renzi's hand. If we want to say it all, he has been a bit upset at this stage as in April, in the middle of the election campaign, the poker player had already ready his beautiful "buying votes" campaign, waving at the lark a beautiful treasure of 1,9 billion to invest promising to help the poorest ( forgetting obviously that we of the 5 Star Movement here in the Senate, we finally managed to start in the Commission the process of our bill "citizen income"). The hot potato is not faced by putting its head under the sand and if Renzi under attack in May he replied that at the time of the Fornero law he was the mayor, today we remind him and all his team of silent buttocks, to this colorful piled up, that the norm of the technical government of Monti was voted also by many who today sit in the armchairs of the majority and, above all, of his Government, as for example 14 his Subsecretaries, 5 his Deputy Ministers and 7 Ministers. Maybe it was better, 'cause this thing was a résumé. However, in order to better know the Renzi-Thought of the time, he makes some of his statements read. On 29 November 2012, he said: The pension reform of Fornero is serious. Well on pensions, malloccio on the job...; during the primary 2013: "The Fornero reform was fine, I will lose a few votes but I say "; 29 October 2013: The reform was not wrong, but a solution must be found for exodus. Today Renzi declares that: "The others will have to understand that the sacrifice that is required of them is within a logic of intergenerational solidarity." And again: I feel the need to give back a lot of money to those who have the minimum, not to those who earn 5,000 euros. I would remind the President-in-Office of the Council that we in the 5 Star Pension Movement have always said that we absolutely must put our hands on a minimum ceiling of EUR 780 per month. Starting to conclude, I note that austerity and sacrifices always make us pay and you never pay them. With this picture worthy of Munch's "The Scream" work, let's start by saying that whoever created this monster cannot assume the right to find the solution. This policy has taken wealth away from citizens and the thief the 5 Star Movement certainly does not give the keys to home. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would ask that the remainder of my speech be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u68	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u69	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, the measure now before the House, after the careful examination by the 11th Commission (thanks to the rapporteur), in addition to regulating the implementation of the judgment of the Advisory Committee No 70 of 2015, which we discussed a lot in the Commission, in the Chamber, as well as in the media, contains further important measures, including the refinancing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation, amounting to 1,020 million. I would point out, moreover, that this measure has been added to the allocation, with the same aims for 2015, of 700 million, so the whole game is 1,720 million. There are also solidarity contracts, which amount to EUR 70 million, as well as rules to ensure the value of pension treatment and to rationalise and standardise the methods and time limits for the payment of social security and welfare benefits. Finally, the measure includes some provisions to intervene on the system of guarantees related to financing and for the anticipation of the FTT. In my opinion, we must pay particular attention at this time to the reform of social shock absorbers by way of derogation, because there is a delicate phase of transition with different regulations and legislation in different regulatory areas. As is well known, with the judgment n. 70 of 2015 that I have remembered, the Constitutional Court has declared the illegality of article 24, paragraph 25, of decree-law n. 201 of 2011, that it had arranged - for the years 2012 and 2013 - the block of the automatic revaluation of pensions for the treatments beyond three times the minimum pension INPS. The full application of the revaluation of pension treatment would have had serious consequences for our country: in fact, we would not have been able to comply with the European budgetary rules (as has already been mentioned by the previous speaker), such as the relationship between deficit and GDP, with the consequent opening of an infringement procedure for excessive deficit. Moreover, the higher costs would have significantly reduced the budgetary and intervention margins for the coming years, with an inevitable increase in VAT and a further commitment of various resources to finance new interventions to support economic growth. As Senator Pagano mentioned earlier, we need to take a step back. The spread value - a word that has been a little obsessed with us since then - in January 2011 was 173 points compared to the performance of the German Treasury bonds; on December 30, the same spread was instead of 528 points. Then it was said that if it had increased again, maybe by 100 points, we would have to "close" the country, as they say. We were in an abyss, in a ravine, I remember it very well: I am a teacher, then I was at school and, just in November of that year, we were talking among ourselves, saying that we would not receive the thirteenth, we would not be paid pensions; there was a whole series of difficulties and fears at that time. We have to remember that phase, because that measure, which contained various measures, is the one that then grafted the reverse with respect to the ravine in which we were entering and, if we are here today discussing what we could do, we also owe it to the fact that at that moment Parliament - I remember - voted with great unity (but I think that there is a little oblivion in this respect, because many of those who perhaps sit here at this time and had voted together have also forgotten it). Then there was the courage to take measures that are and remain unpopular; Parliament faced many unpopular measures, also making mistakes, but at that time Italy came out of the problem that now - by chance - involves a country that is very close to us: Greece, very close also at a geographical level. In the spirit of the decision of the Council, the Government has appropriately chosen the only possible way, which consists in a partial revaluation based on inflation, graduated in descending function, for bands of pension amounts up to six times the minimum treatment for pension treatments exceeding three times the minimum treatment, with effect from 1 September 2015. Hard choice? Of course. Did you please everyone? No. Are you brave? I would say yes, since it was taken before the last local elections, at a time when perhaps it could be avoided, adopted without any political calculation. But above all it was a choice, in my opinion, of responsibility, on the basis of the principle - which I always remember - that "the best is the enemy of good." The sustainability of our public accounts does not currently offer - as anyone who knows the public accounts, who has read the budgets of the INPS or frequents managing bodies, foundations, coffers and anticipations, as I do - wide room for manoeuvre and the adoption of measures too "integralist' would have consequences of difficult reading for the future of our country, which is also - let me say - the future of our children. Perhaps we do not remember that we have to deal with one of the big problems of the old Continent, which is the cyclone of demography, which will make unsustainable, with regard to relations with generations, and unfair many pension models today rigorous. We remember - and I am very pleased with this - that the average life of women will be eighty-nine years and that of men will be eighty-seven years. This is a very unsustainable system, but it is not just Italy's concern (among other things we have already taken refuge), but it must worry some other states. It is therefore the task of Parliament and today of the Senate to evaluate this choice of the Government - a choice, I repeat, responsible for me - on the basis of the principles of reasonableness and proportionality dictated by the contingent economic and social situation in Italy. However, it seems to me useful to give the attention of this House some data relating to our social security system. According to data from the Technical and Scientific Committee of Social Security Itineraries, considering the whole of the funds of the compulsory system, we have a total pension expenditure in 2013 of €247.9 billion, an increase of just under 5 billion compared to the previous year, equivalent to about 2%. With regard to the number of pensioners, in 2013 the number of beneficiaries of pension treatment under the Italian system is just over 16 million, of which 52.8 percent are women who receive about 70% of survivor's pensions. There are approximately 23 million paid pension benefits to which more than 4 million welfare pensions must be added. I shall conclude, Mr President. However, this intervention must not cause the government and Parliament to lose the right direction of their compass, indicating as its final goal the arrival of a new pension system, which is correct compared to the current one, which is too rigid and penalises some workers. I remember the usurping jobs, which we are so worried about. In an interview a few months ago, Minister Poletti indicated that the government's objective is to make retirement age more flexible in order to allow young people to enter the labour market. At the same time, the House's working committee has already incardinated and is discussing - and we see it every day also in the media - the various proposals of the various parliamentary groups on pension flexibility, opening up the confrontation between three institutions and the social partners, workers and all stakeholders. It is precisely in the Commission that the Government has indicated that there will be a meeting with the trade unions, of which we are very pleased, and proposals have been put forward, again in the Commission, which I hope will be adopted. This reform represents a challenge for the institutions and an opportunity to be seized. It will be the task of the Government and Parliament to collect the various proposals in order to develop the most effective and more in line with the needs of Italian workers and pensioners, taking into account our budgetary constraints, but also and above all the rights of our children. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u71	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u72	Madam President, already in the Commission and in this House in the debate on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, we have highlighted our opposition to this decree-law, which is a little paradigm of what is not to be done and what is wrong with this government in its legislative work. First of all, it is a decree-law which is not the result of the political will to meet pensioners, because it follows a decision by the Constitutional Court, as well as the famous school recruitments follow a declaration of censure by the European Union, as well as many other measures are not the result of an initiative studied and of a precise political will of the Government to meet the needs of certain categories, but are the residual and consequential activity of judgments requiring legislation. If the Government had identified, with much more carefulness - I do not want to use the term "longitude" which seems excessive for this Government - what the consequences of the Court's judgment could have been, in my opinion, it would have had to intervene in advance, at the time of the expiry of the blocking of the adjustment of pensions, with a measure that would restore in time this just and legitimate expectation of pensioners. In this way it would certainly have neutralised the Court's intervention and could have identified resources other than those it has identified, because among the negative consequences deriving from the decree-law in question, there is the absolute lack of financial cover. It is in fact imagined on the basis of parameters of growth of the national economy that are not and will not be respected, thinking of the use of that famous treasure that is not there, because it is a treasure "to create" that will not be created. It is therefore about the immediate use of resources that will not be there: so this practice will be added to that of other decrees and as a consequence will have the increase of the public debt. Not for nothing this morning the Bank of Italy has informed us - even if the professionals were already aware of it - that the public debt has grown by 83 billion euros just because of these rules, that the Government emanates on the basis of future improvements of the national economy, that then punctually they do not realize. In addition, the measure in question complies with a very low 12% of the requirements of the Constitutional Court's judgment. We therefore try to respect certain principles of proportionality which the Court recalled, because they are contained in various provisions of the Constitution, but in reality we end up displeased everyone, because it is said that the resources available are few. It is true that they are few and that they are not there, but it is also true that the Government can find the resources to finance the things it wants to do, except then to be faced with the figures that the Bank of Italy has provided us this morning. For example, the government managed to find 10 billion euros to finance the famous 80 euros measure: if it had spent 10 billion euros on pension adjustment [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] a far greater effect could have been achieved, not only on the amount of pensions, but on the national economy itself, because pensioners living on pensions - and they are the vast majority - if they see their monthly income increased, they will spend it to increase their standard of living, in the years that remain for them to live. If the government found EUR 4.5 billion from the Structural Funds to fuel the decontribution of new recruitments, it could have found the same resources to increase the intervention on pensions. The truth is that this intervention has been ripped from the grip, outside of any will on the part of this Government, which should have, instead, as its first act - and as other governments already did - provided the resources for the adjustment of pensions. On this issue, another problem arises that the Government is unable to address, namely that of the relations between the disputes in existence at the Constitutional Court, the judgments of the Court itself and the emptiness of these judgments on the state budget. We have three important judgments of the Constitutional Court: the one on the abolition of the Robin tax - and there, of course, the oil lobby gets fat, as they say - the one on pensions and the other on the adjustments to state wages. On these three judgments, the Court took a number of different attitudes: out of two, it invoked Article 81, which was recently introduced into the Constitution, so that the balance of the budget prevented its retroactivity; on the other hand, it ruled that retroactivity had to be given, not entirely arguing on Article 81, because it skipped this kind of consideration, perhaps considering the interests of pensioners to prevail - and I would like to say perhaps legitimately. However, the government continues to sniff and act like a boxer who gets slaps and doesn't know which rope to lean on. In this case, he was wrong again, because he could have supported the rope of popular solidarity and the legitimate expectation of large weak sections of the population, and could have "used" the sentence to regain a minimum of credibility on this front. It is not, in fact, by breaking the front of the weak that credibility is regained, and this is an important point: the weak sections of the population must solidarity with each other and they must not compete. We must not, therefore, allow social conflicts to arise, even if not exasperated, but latent, on this front. We couldn't afford it. However, I would like to make a further comment on these judgments of the Court. Someone criticized the President-in-Office of the Council - and we are among them, of course - for the instinctive reaction he had - I would say almost nervous - at the time when this judgment appeared. However, I would like to make a broader argument, if possible. Many Members have said that these measures were taken when Italy was almost a step away from the current situation in Greece, but we have never been. We are a producing country, we are among the G7 countries and our situation is certainly not comparable to that of Greece. It is also true, however, that we could potentially have the need to intervene on so-called acquired rights. It is clear, then, that, if we were to find ourselves in a situation of overall financial difficulty, in the light of the judgments that the Court continually issues, we could not fulfil the obligations that were also required of us by the European Union. This is an issue on which we should be discussing for a long time, just as Parliament, because it strongly challenges Parliament itself's ability to issue laws against possible situations of economic crisis, and it almost puts it in front of the powerlessness of modifying certain structural mechanisms of welfare or our social structures. On this point, I think we should think about it, but it is certainly not with this kind of decree-law that these problems are solved: this is a decree that can only make the public's consideration of the government and therefore of Parliament worse, or at least that part of it that votes for it. That part, however, will certainly not be made up of our Group, which will vote against. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u73	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lepri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u74	Madam President, the debate seems to me to have long examined the reasons for the judgment and also those of the Government, which - as is well known - proposes to us to provide only part - and I would like to say rightly - to implement the principles of the judgment. In essence, the proposal that we are examining, formulated by the Government with the decree-law under consideration, is at the same time reasonable and inspired by criteria of progressiveness: it has, that is, those same characteristics and properties that - as the judgment has evidenced - should have been present in law n. 214 of 2011 and that, precisely, it goes to solicit, so as to be able to resume and correct the law itself. Therefore, progressiveness and reasonableness in the way in which the Constitutional Court's judgment is answered in part. It was a measure imposed by the Court and which, however - I believe, quite frankly - Parliament is trying to correct, knowing that the budgetary constraints imposed that choice together with many others adopted in those terrible days, namely in an exceptional and, in some respects, dramatic situation. Today this corrective - we know well - does not return to pensioners everything that has been asked for as a sacrifice, but still represents a welcome, albeit partial, return of the sacrifices required of them in 2012 and 2013. I have heard many colleagues take on a passionate defense, but I would like to say a little 'of course', of pensioners and, moreover, it would be easy to accommodate us or guide these complaints or requests for more attention. I ask, however, where were those same and those same who in the last hours, in these moments, today and in the previous days have torn their clothes, but who have brought us with their insufficient policies conducted for many years in Italy to put back a boat that was sinking. Where are they? Where were they? I believe that the necessity and urgency of the measure, whose timely and inevitable coverage will be partly foreseen in subsequent years, will not take us away - this is an issue, which will be addressed in the coming months - from the need and awareness to address the issue of the sustainability of the pension system, where it is evident the disproportion between contributions paid and benefits in enjoyment, especially - I would say almost exclusively - in cases of high and medium-high pensions. This is an issue that we know we will have to address, at least and at least to benefit those who, over the years, find it difficult to find work and, therefore, in their livelihoods, as they are close to retirement, that is, to fill up the poor social security pensions of so many young precarious workers. The Decree-Law contains other important measures which perhaps the debate has little considered, including in particular the refinancing, the integration of funding for the integration fund by way of derogation, which is a tail, but certainly important, of this transition to a new model of passive labour policies that the legislative decrees that we are approving will contribute to determining. It is a transitional phase: as I said, it is the tail of a policy that has properly seen the Government and Parliament intervene on particular conditions, such as those that characterize the integration fund by way of derogation, with measures that, however, go towards their overcoming, replaced by models and interventions that are likely to be more effective. Similarly, it is appropriate - as we have already said in the discussion of the Stability Act - to refinance and further support solidarity contracts, which were honestly underfunded by the Stability Act of 2014. And, also in this case, we are faced not only with a choice of support, through a filling-up of the fund, but also with a different formulation and method through which, a few months from now, we will begin to apply more effectively this important formula of solidarity contracts, which is important and still not applied in Italy, compared - for example - with other countries, and which allows us to maintain the presence in work of workers even in the case of serious corporate crises. In conclusion, we are not honestly faced with a decree-law that will remain in history. However, managing transitions well, avoiding acute crises that can arise and returning, even partially, what is considered due, in short, the ability to govern the emergency and prevent difficulties, are also important gifts, like having foresight and vision. Today we do not write a new page in the history of reformism, but at least we assure the orderly and, in this case, urgent duty to manage, correct, integrate and prevent. This is also a gift of good governance, which Parliament - I hope - will support tomorrow. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u75	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u76	I shall refer you to another session following the examination of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u79	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for the redevelopment of the public building heritage, the EU directive provides that, from January 2014, every year, renovations are carried out in at least 3% of the total useful covered areas of heated and/or cooled buildings of which public bodies are owners and final users. For the management of the public building heritage is a huge change, which must be accompanied by resources and objectives, actions of energy saving and efficiency of the building heritage, changes in the systems of energy management. Through the key of energy it is possible to retrain the buildings in which we live and work, to make them, as well as less energetic, more beautiful, hospitable, healthy. It is an opportunity that must be fully grasped. So, why not start with our Senate buildings, characterized by high levels of energy inefficiency in the various sectors? Air conditioning systems are not adjustable on the basis of the outside temperature (so much so that, in winter, you suffer from the heat and keep the windows open and, in summer, you suffer from the cold and always keep the windows open). The fixtures do not guarantee good thermal insulation. Lighting systems in many buildings date back more than twenty years. I would point out that today artificial lighting is responsible for 19 percent of total electricity consumption and that the modernisation of an obsolete lighting system generally reduces energy consumption and operating costs by up to 30 percent. In addition, the use of intelligent lighting management systems, with presence and dimming sensors as a function of daylight, allows you to get even more savings, even up to 70 percent. In the face of all this and the millionaire costs of our internal utilities, I wonder: to whom should it be better to continue with this waste of resources? Why doesn't the Administration turn to an energy saving company (ESCo) to launch a project aimed at upgrading, from an energy point of view, the buildings in which we work and to improve the efficiency in lighting and electricity consumption? In conclusion, anticipating the objection on the lack of funds, I would point out that the technical interventions necessary to obtain the energy savings just mentioned are not carried out by the customer - so in this case by us, that is by the Senate - but through investments supported by the same ESCo, whose profit, moreover, is linked precisely to the energy savings actually achieved with the realization of the project. Basically, there's no excuse. I'm proposing a zero-cost project to save public taxpayers' money. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u80	Senator Girotto, we will submit your proposal to Senators Quaestors.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u81	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-483.ana.u82	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 15 July, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8 p.m.
