ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u4	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2138, already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the refinancing decree for international missions is a budgetary choice that weighs on the state's coffers for more than EUR 300 million. This is yet another use of the urgent decree, to which we are now accustomed by this Government, which makes almost constant use of it. A decree of urgency that does not allow an in-depth analysis and gives rise only to an indiscriminate amalgamation of international missions of profoundly different origins and history. Well, I find it unjustifiable to extend financial commitments for international missions since the large sums allocated over the last few years for military expenditure have proved visibly ineffective in combating terrorism. All the more so at a time when the law of stability that the government has developed will increase cuts in school and health care in favour of military spending; at a time when the majority of precarious teachers, to cite an example, have not yet received a salary since the beginning of the year; at a time when the problem of exodus seems to have fallen into oblivion which, despite the interventions included in the law of stability, the government has not yet fixed. In short, millions of euros are allocated to international missions while services to citizens are not supported. The Forces of the Order try to patch up their flaws where they succeed and the fire department, in particular, for years complain of a structural lack and of the staff with an obsolete means park and scarce funds for the maintenance of the same. It is absurd to draw up plans for the reconstruction and management of the crisis where we ourselves have contributed to the emergence of critical and harmful situations, situations that are precisely our product. It is enough to reflect on the supply operations of the areas of Syria controlled by the so-called opposition, which have benefited only from the creation and growth of terrorist agglomerations. We now know that most of the proposals that contain indications such as "cooperation and development" or "peace missions" are nothing more than expedients to justify conflicts of economic origin and for the control of strategic areas essential to imperialist Western politics. Military interventions in Afghanistan and Libya are the most striking example. Interventions in Libya, for example, have caused the death of many civilians and the destruction of an invaluable historical and cultural heritage, producing as a response uncontrolled illegal immigration and the consequent exploitation of it; billions of euros spent on a UN resolution that actually spoke of civil defense. What this Government should really be concerned with is the search for a strategy aimed at the recovery of resources for the strengthening of surveillance and security devices in our territories, for the prevention and counter-terrorism needs with regard, more than anything else, to the control of the supply of arms (especially to territories such as Pakistan, indicated in this same decree) and activities aimed at the exploitation of migratory flows. We need tools and methods that can lead to the development of activities in the field of education and integration. In conclusion, Madam President, I firmly repeat the need to stop every war mission or similar intervention and any continuation of missions linked to the Diktats and the convenience of NATO, aware of the poor results that these missions have had in the fight against terrorism over the past few years. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u10	Madam President, representatives of the Government, let us talk about the activities of our military, so let us talk about national security. What is national security? It is that service that must be offered to make the lives of those who live in this country safe and peaceful. Why are we called to operate missions, even outside our territory? Basically to counter any danger that might have repercussions within our borders. Perhaps we have not yet focused it well; in France, at the moment, they would understand much better why it is important to be present on foreign scenarios, in order to ensure national security. Today we have about 5,000 presences of our military, "dusted" a little around the world. The intervention capabilities of our defence system - possibly the government representatives correct me - should be between 12,000 and 15,000 men. This is the contribution that Italy can make to the international contingent. Where are those 5,000 men today? That little contingent where he's busy? In our opinion they are committed on a thousand fronts; today, contingently to the security that serves to guarantee our country, they are in areas that are absolutely useless. We have men scattered all over the continents. In the areas of Europe, we are still present in Bosnia, Albania and Kosovo. It is true that these are minimal presences; in fact, the cost of closing the year is 1 million (remember that these figures are used to cover three months of expenditure). We are still present in the Balkan area, with 25 million spending, and we are present with a symbolic presence in Cyprus. We have ships that travel around the Mediterranean and could also confuse their task, because half of them serve to save lives - as you say - and to assist refugees, while the other half of the ships serve to combat human trafficking. We could also concentrate and try to do what is most needed right now. We are also present in Asia, starting with Afghanistan, for 14 years, for a very serious mistake made by the Americans there. We have minimal presences in Bahrain, the Emirates and Qatar; we are still present in Lebanon, with a fairly important force, we are dusting over all Palestine, from Rafah to Hebron and we are also fighting the terrorism of the cutthroat. I will never use words like Daesh and ISIS because - said the Undersecretary yesterday - at the moment when we use the acronym that they themselves have given themselves to affirm that there is an Islamic State, we value its existence and induce the Islamics of the whole world to think that their State exists and that the task of every Muslim is to defend his State. But there is no state: there are territories occupied by terrorists that we must eradicate for the internal security of our country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] We are still present in the Horn of Africa, Somalia, with anti-piracy operations, to the point that we must exercise and maintain the Djibouti base exclusively to provide assistance and security to areas such as the Sahel and Mali. This dispersion in small and micro missions, in many small antennas, in small participations means that we must spend - always for three months, because we speak of a quarter annual budget - 14 million to ensure the insurance, transport and logistics of the whole system. If we had a concentration, we wouldn't need this whole organization, which has a very significant cost. Senator De Pin touched, for example, on the issue of supplies. Having equipment, machinery and equipment that are not needed, you might think you can safely give them up, but to whom would we give them free of charge? We would offer equipment to Iraq. The Americans have also offered equipment and means to Iraq; the Americans have also supported the rebels fighting Assad in Syria and the first major clashes with terrorists have escaped the regular forces and have left armament, means and equipment all in the hands of terrorists. Are we gonna end up the same way? Let us give Albania all the old MV-90 aircraft, let us give Egypt all our F-16 spare parts that we will stop, but do we remember the history of Egypt in recent years? Today there is a military system, led by Al-Sisi, that has the pulse of the situation, but we have seen what happened in Egypt since the fall of Mubarak: in the first elections the extremists, the Muslim Brotherhood of Morsi, won, but if they were to go to new elections and still win the Muslim Brotherhood, it would mean that we are supplying arms to a country that is not yet fully stabilized. Rewinding the tape would mean rearming our potential enemies again. We give our A109 helicopters to Uganda and all M113 vehicles to Pakistan, but is Pakistan really a country to trust blindly? We are still in Afghanistan, we are still fighting the Afghan anti-government terrorist system of the Taliban - Al Qaeda was born in those areas - and apparently Pakistan, out of play, never entered the game, has always given hospitality and coverage to the Taliban, to the point that Osama Bin Laden was captured and executed right in Pakistan, under whose cover he was. We go to give away our means that we decide to stop a state that has these characteristics. Development cooperation is a good thing: we help and help each other, we make wars and we go to rebuild. But is national security more important at this time or is it going around the world to make small works? In fact, it is true that the figure amounts to EUR 38.5 million, but it is resources that are pulverized with a very little sense in terms of usefulness. The appropriation of EUR 38.5 million is intended for reconstruction in countries such as Afghanistan, Ethiopia, the Central African Republic, Iraq, Libya, Mali, Niger, Myanmar, Pakistan, Palestine, Syria, Somalia, Sudan, South Sudan and Yemen. But should we not concentrate all these resources on the main emergency and danger? We have said this in a thousand ways: the danger and the Italian and international emergencies come today from terrorists occupying the Syrian and Iraqi territories. In our humble opinion, it is in those areas that we must concentrate all the resources we have available and all the men we can deploy on the field today - those 10,000, 12,000 or perhaps 15,000 soldiers we have available - without waiting too long. This new enemy is incredible for us: it has the potential to arrive with forms that we do not know and even manages to attract sympathies in our countries among the young. In the European states and, in general, in the West, exalted and perhaps marginalized young people decide to leave their own countries to go and fight a war apparently not their own: they are the famous foreign fighters. In addition to these, there are also those who do not move: I am referring to the famous lone wolves, who decide to embrace the cause and carry out violent and bloody acts in their lands - see Belgium and France recently - with an almost non-existent connection (international networks now allow to communicate and have information). They carry out acts that we pay on our skin. Gentlemen Undersecretaries, can we stand still in front of this scenario? We can watch and decide to act only diplomatically since nothing has happened in Italy and our calluses, as they say, have not been beaten? Paris doesn't think so, and in Belgium they don't think so. Even Turkey does not think so, even if it is not well understood on which side it is on and what kind of battle it wants to do. That is not the view of Russia, to which we must almost apologise for everything we have done and for the sanctions we have imposed. Russia is in fact the only state that is openly opposed to terrorism that is directed towards the West and not yet towards its territories. We ask the government: how much blood do we have to see before we move and how many throats do we still have to bear our sight before this country wakes up? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are examining the decree-law on international missions. Before listing a few points of great interest to us, I would like to leave a very effective slogan on the record, which I have coined for this measure. The phrase or slogan is as follows: Italy is the only country that sells weapons that will never be used. That's what we're talking about. Because your tranquility, compared to the 3 billion exports of arms to the world and with a good percentage also to the countries of the Middle East, presupposes exactly this: that Italy is the only country in the world that sells weapons that will never be used, because only this will determine our tranquility in this regard. Having said that, unfortunately what is happening, as we have already said before, is that you are dragging us to that point of no return where we will say that military intervention is now inevitable. But for us many things are avoidable, if taken in time. Another consideration must also be made on the basis of what was told us yesterday by Mr Gentiloni, who we have not yet understood if he is actually our Foreign Minister. In fact, judging by his statements, it seems to us that Mr Gentiloni is rather the Minister of Defence. He tells us about a new intervention in Afghanistan. He tells us about military interventions against ISIS and against Daesh. But these are statements from the Minister of Defence. What we would like to hear from a Foreign Minister is diplomatic considerations: for example, that there is an annual report, the Global Terrorism Index, which says that more than 80% of the world's conflicts have been resolved by diplomatic means. That would be a fine phrase from a foreign minister, not from a minister of defense. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The other point I wanted to stress, after the lack of consistency on the part of this Ministry, is procedural. We have pointed out over the past few hours that we have almost been asked not to table amendments. But you know very well that to present them means to give the citizens an account of the fact that we are working here, that we have read this decree-law and that we have marked our reading by tabling amendments and leaving them in black and white. The other singular note I wanted to make this morning is that we started voting on the amendments yesterday morning at 10.30 a.m., while the Budget Committee met at 11.30 a.m. We have seen the way in which we have, in fact, voted on a text without having the opinion of the Budget Commission. I do not know whether this is a regulatory point which I do not understand, but I wanted to point out it and, in this regard, I would like to ask the rapporteurs for clarification, because I may have missed this passage. We have certainly started to vote on the amendments before the Budget Commission takes them into account: at this point we should ask ourselves where the Budget Commission's opinion is, since we have finished examining the measure before the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u13	Senator Lucidi, on the regulatory point, I make it clear that, when this is a measure that is already on the agenda of this House, the Commission must report to the House and the Budget Commission gives its opinion to the House. In fact, it is available to everyone because the opinion has been given. Senator Alicata is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the disastrous terrorist events of recent weeks, from Beirut to Paris, from Mali to Tunisia, without forgetting the attacks that daily bloody Israel, certainly call for unity. Our values, our way of life, our carefreeness, have been attacked by invaders who want to move war and move the clock of time to their Middle Ages. A conflict scenario, unnecessarily aggravated by the crisis between Turkey and Russia. The desired unity, however, cannot be understood as an uncritical acceptance of this Government's foreign policy choices, which we consider to be lacking, mostly driven by the United States and the European Union, marked in recent days by slogans and clichés to avoid evoking the word war. Deficitary from Libya, where the Renzi Government did nothing and did nothing when in the summer of 2014 a coup forced the Government, until that legitimate moment, to flee to Tobruk. The failed mediation of the UN envoy has been supported, while ISIS has taken more and more of the chaos to settle dangerously at the doors of our home. We participate in the anti-ISIS coalition, but we do it - as usual - in our own way. We help the people facing the Islamic State. We are at war, but only a little: our special forces are deployed, they train forces in the field, but they do nothing else; our Tornados do not bomb, they photograph the targets that others, instead of us, will then bomb. We are at the forefront, but not war; we are not at war, but under attack: these are the verbal contortions, of democratic Christian memory, used in recent days by our Foreign Minister. The usual Italian woman, ruled by a Premier who, due to a resounding accident in history, finds himself facing something greater than him, despite us. It is not understood by the Government that the current one is not a clash of civilizations, but is the war of civilization against civilization; and against the barbarians we must defend ourselves, not letting them take advantage of the broad links of democracy to insinuate and kill us. Forza Italia will probably vote on this measure, remembering that it will still be the last time of a decree-law that refinances international missions, being in the right of arrival, right in the Senate, the framework law that will overcome the decree of urgency. We will certainly vote for it not because we share the work of the Government, but because of the deep respect for our Armed Forces, for the passionate commitment with which they carry out their work in defence of peace and security in the various theatres where they operate. It was of particular pride to note, during a recent visit to Washington by a delegation of the Defence Commission, that the lowest common denominator among our authoritative interlocutors was the unanimous appreciation for the quality and seriousness with which our military operate. It is, therefore, a pity, undersecretary Rossi, that the defence and security sector must constantly suffer from continuous cuts in men and resources that will ultimately undermine their credibility, at a time of serious threats and high risk to our security. We must defend ourselves in the best possible way, by recovering human and financial resources for law enforcement and intelligence services. In this context, little use is made of the proclamations of a Premier announcing investments and petty electoral tips, which have little to do with security, while the stations of the carabinieri, police and police stations are closed, and the staff are reduced by 45,000 units. It takes more seriousness when dealing with such sensitive issues that concern collective security. The call to keep the nerves firm may be appreciated, but the threat is not immediately fought with the simple cultural response, desired by the Premier. As Britain and France revise their defence appropriations upwards, we continue to cut back here. In fact, then, our country has self-tied to the rank of gregarious with respect to the other powers. A role as a private, even when the reasons are explained why Italy does not participate in the raid at the moment: first it takes a strategy for the following, remembering Libya, says the Premier. It's not like that. The post-Syria, at the moment, is called Bashar al Assad, and the first is called, instead, beating the terrorists who besiege our freedoms. Then we can talk about transition. But this Premier - we repeat - probably faces a bigger situation than he does, as evidenced by the dangerous superficiality with which he announced in recent days that it was the Italian intelligence to locate the place in Syria where the executioner of ISIS was hiding. If it were true, we do not believe it has rendered our intelligence a favor, revealing what the Services have always been silent, necessarily obliged to silence, that is, their successes. Someone explains - do so yourself, undersecretary Rossi, or undersecretary Minniti - that revealing details of our intelligence device in war zones, of the existence of any information networks, created to the sound of economic sacrifices, can entail the enormous price of many other sacrifices. An amateur to the obliteration, moreover recurrent on the topic, when with as much ruinous superficiality reported on the alleged relationships between ENI and information services. Two words must then be spent, because it is impossible to keep quiet, on over-archism and erroneous assessments, since the war in Iraq, on the part of the Western Chancelleries. The secular regimes of Gaddafi and Saddam Hussein have been eliminated, thinking foolishly that this was enough to bring about democracy. Shockingly, the notorious Arab Springs were endorsed by excruciating Western leaders, who, to complete the picture, together with Middle Eastern countries, have our ambiguous allies, fed the so-called anti-Assad rebels, in an attempt to overthrow a legitimate president. A country, Syria, where before the Arab Springs everyone lived together with a mosaic of religions in peace with each other, as my colleague Giarrusso well explained yesterday. The West, Western Chancellors, President Barak Obama, analysts halfway around the world probably didn't understand what was happening in Syria. Having said that, it is necessary to run to the shelter, before it is too late, by cutting first the channels of financing, claiming, with good or bad, to block from those who profess to be allied words of the West any aid to Islamic fundamentalists. In this regard, what foreign minister has ever dreamed of summoning the ambassadors of Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Qatar or Kuwait, all our supposed allies, to ask for account and explanations of any support to those who lead the holy war against the West? The Italian government, so dangerously exposed, being our first Western country bordering ISIS, strongly asks the main allies to do everything to find a solution in the transition in Syria and Libya. It is also committed to overcoming the tensions between the Atlantic Alliance and Russia, whose support is fundamental against the common enemy and at the same time eliminating the sanctions against the Russian Federation itself, which also affects our economic interests. Work is also being done to bring together all protagonists and holders of interest on the regions, without vetoing them, no one excluded, including President Assad. In order to return to this measure, while voting on it, we cannot accept the critical points contained in it. The European Union's NEVFOR MED mission, although supported and voted by Forza Italia, appears to be ineffective in relation to its intended objectives. The final objectives provided for the repression of human trafficking, even with interventions in Libyan territory. After the first phase of gathering information, we are waiting for the other phases, but they are not going to arrive, but they were the core of the problem. They will not come because there are no conditions, there is no Libyan United Government and the subsequent UN Security Council resolution authorising the other stages. We thank Admiral Credendino for the excellent work he has done so far, but we believe that the mission should be suppressed because the purpose for which it was born has failed. Another critical point, Mr President, is the Copasir affair. It is disconcerting that, at the time when unity and collaboration in the fight against terrorism is required, Forza Italia continues to be excluded, while having full right to be part of it, from the body of control of the Services. This measure, which provides for an extension of the activities of the Services and thus extends the powers and functions of the Monitoring Committee, could be an opportunity to remedy the unfortunate situation, which sees outside that body an opposition force representing millions of citizens. She missed another chance. He is not honourable for Parliament and for this majority to continue for a long time in this laughable and undemocratic attitude. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say a word to our Maròs, who were taking part in an international mission approved by Parliament and who are waiting almost four years to see their innocence confirmed. Arbitration started a year and a half late when it was falsely announced in the Commission, defended by the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, today comfortably and unnecessarily placed in a quiet chair in Brussels. This new procedure will not involve the immediate resolution of the case, but will allow, at least, a third court to conclude the bitter affair in this further period of time in an honorable manner for our riflemen, certainly not for this Government and for those who preceded it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u15	Senator Pegorer is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u16	Madam President, we know that any measure to extend the international missions of the Armed Forces and the police and development cooperation initiatives concretely expresses our country's contribution to the effort that the international community is making to pursue peace and stability. This commitment, after the events in Paris, needs careful and rational redefinition, taking into account the new priorities which it imposed on 13 November for the attention of governments and the whole public. I am thinking first of all of the characters that are gradually taking on the threat posed by Daesh (we discussed it yesterday afternoon in this House). The Paris attacks have rewritten the priorities of the international action of the Western countries. It was in fact an event of certain historical significance that led to an acceleration in international relations and in the overall approach to crises in the Middle East and surrounding areas, beginning with Mesopotamia. It is a significant turning point, whose consequences and evolution, which appear to be constantly changing, can only be measured and evaluated over time. It has rightly been said that we need an overall strategic response, which therefore knows how to operate on several levels: from diplomatic political to humanitarian, cultural and military. From this point of view it is quite clear that the Libyan situation must be carefully followed and monitored, working so that as soon as possible a shared solution can be realized for the Government of that country, thus able to stop the path of ISIS, already present in Sirte's territory. Well, then, the planned summit on Libya to be held in Rome on 13 December: this is a significant event that we hope will be able to put around the same table all the major international players and the various regional protagonists, in order to remove all external obstacles, as we said yesterday, to the definition of a necessary understanding between the various Libyan parties. In general, the outcome of the meetings in Vienna on the Syrian situation, which saw the participation of 17 countries, including, in addition to Iran, the USA and Saudi Arabia, should be assessed positively. A coordinated action to limit ISIS's capacity for action must find, it has been stressed, an answer that can unite military action, intelligence work and, first of all, strong political and diplomatic action. It is necessary, in fact, to gradually reconstruct, just starting from the contrast to ISIS, a capacity for governance of international relations that from Syria to Iraq can become a paradigm, even in view of other possible crises. There is no doubt that there are many difficulties. What has emerged in Vienna is perhaps partial and not exhaustive, but it is an important first step so that it is possible to achieve the objective of an agreement involving, on equal terms, the most important countries in the international scene and the main regional actors in that area. In this context, Italy can play its full role, taking due account of the new priorities that have been expressed in that furrow that has always marked our foreign and defence policy choices, knowing, among other things, how to bring out on the agenda of the international community our place in the heart of the Mediterranean. Stabilization in the Middle East and the Mediterranean, therefore, as a concrete contribution to the construction of a new order. Italy, also with this measure of extension of international missions limited to the last quarter of 2015, is fully involved in the action of the international community engaged in the construction of peace, for development cooperation policies, for the respect of human rights. As pointed out by the speakers, then, this decree-law affirms an extremely strong Italian commitment to counter the threat of Daesh. In particular, this effort is articulated both along the direction of bilateral relations with Iraq and the Kurdish authorities and with the contribution offered to the international coalition, which sees some aircraft deployed in Kuwait, training support for Kurdish fighter units, as well as nuclei of special forces and carabinieri in Iraqi territory. Madam President, there are about 750 men and women in our country at the forefront of the danger posed by ISIS. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In contrast to the Daesh, Italy is therefore in a leading role, also taking into account the activity of our contingent in Lebanon and what we have been trying to achieve for some time in Afghanistan; these are commitments that this measure also confirms with important resources. However, the geopolitical picture is in continuous and progressive change. The direction taken by this process of changing the present balances until recently seems for some not to run towards a cooperative and orderly system, but rather towards a scenario of conflictual confrontation, precisely because it lacks the traditional references known to this day. It is therefore very important to work for the European Union to play a united and protagonist role, starting with the establishment of a common diplomatic action, as well as of defence and security, which for some time - I insist - Italy has put decisively to the attention of other European partners. As far as Parliament is concerned, I would also remind you that next January we will revisit the issue of international missions, and I hope that this future debate will cover an annual measure, including to give Parliament's groups the opportunity to carry out the most detailed and serious substantive discussion possible. In this context, I would stress the need for the Senate's examination of the framework law on international missions to be approved by the House as soon as possible. On everything, Madam President, and I conclude, it should also be pointed out that the current activities of ISIS, its being in fact a hybrid threat, capable of countering terrorist actions with the aim of constituting a real state, the same capacity as demonstrated in the infiltration and recruitment of its members within the countries of the European Union, require, as I said, a response that can contain long-term commitments and policies in the various theaters of crisis. For our country this commitment, I believe, will certainly not fail, alongside a constant work for the promotion of the culture of tolerance and integration, calling for a collective responsibility also the Islamic communities themselves. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u17	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u18	I call the rapporteur, Senator Compagna.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u19	Madam President, taking up a picture evoked in Mr Pegorer's last speech, there is no doubt that the terrible attack in Paris has changed the agendas of Western priorities on the ground. Moreover, our political and constitutional habit of resorting to a measure that unites the missions as a whole is ancient: hence the overlapping in our discussion of strictly normative issues, those of the measure under consideration, and issues instead of compelling and pressing political perspective, perhaps topical, if the conference of 13 December on the Libyan issue will have a development, to which many, from President Napolitano onward, referred in our discussion. I believe, however, that I must, as rapporteur, give two answers a little more merit and a little more detail. I therefore reply to my colleague, Mr Lucidi, not so much on the issue of our work in the Commissions meeting, compared with the opinions of the Budget Commission, on which I believe the Presidency has already responded in full. However, Mr Lucidi, apart from many considerations which reflect those of his group's colleagues, says something that is certainly true, although it is not the whole truth, on the question of the role of Minister of Defence, which is too much of a role of Minister of Defence. In some respects, this is a bit of a banality: if my colleague and friend Lucidi allows me, there is no doubt that for a few years, since we have taken this political-institutional habitus of the maxidecreto over all our international presence, much of our foreign policy is in the presence of our soldiers abroad. So, indirectly, it may be that Lucidi's consideration is not wrong. Moreover, Mr Lucidi, always in good faith, will recognize that the information made yesterday by the Minister of Foreign Affairs took place following our request - that is, a request from the Assembly, last Thursday - in which the interlocutor Government was then called into question for a very close "dress" of the Minister of Defence. It was in fact the Russian and Turkish question, within the framework of the Atlantic Alliance, that led the Assembly to the calendarization of the information. I owe a very precise answer to my friend Alicata, if I may call him that. I very much appreciated some of the considerations of Senator Alicata, and not only the assessments, which I share on the merits, on the international chessboard, but also the idea that foreign policy is always, if possible and hopefully, "territory" of national unity. From this point of view I have to rely on his clemency, so as not to be considered a cynical and cheating rapporteur, because compared to the question of Copasir, already the day before yesterday in the Commission, I came to say that the question certainly exists: if the fair parliamentary play fails to address it in order to resolve it, you can and must find a regulatory framework other than the decree-law missions to address it. Having made these clarifications and, above all, referring, as you said, to the assessments of Mr Vattuone's rapporteur for all the articles of specific attention of the Defence Commission, i.e. those outside Chapter II of the Decree-Law under consideration (Articles 8, 9 and 10), I believe that I have completed my task. [[Applause from Senator Sangalli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u20	I call the rapporteur, Senator Vattuone.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u21	Madam President, I will speak very briefly only to point out that the debate has been characterised by the sense of responsibility that has also been expressed during the work of the Commission, given the limited timing of the debate. I should therefore like to thank immediately all the members of the Defence Commission, of which I am a member, but also of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, Migration, which, given the limited time, has allowed the measure to arrive in this House, despite the diversity of certain positions, as we have also seen during this debate. On the specific request made to the rapporteurs concerning the opinion of the 5th Commission, the Presidency has already replied, as my colleague Mr Compagna reminded us. I would just like to mention what has already been said in the debut report on this measure on the centrality of the Mediterranean with regard to all the issues that have been raised with regard to Italy's exposure to the Mediterranean. The Libyan issue has been taken up in many speeches and I do not want to dwell on it now, but I just want to mention something that has been mentioned and taken up several times, namely Russia's involvement and Iran's openness. We have been forerunners, for a long time, in calling for intervention and openness on these two fronts, which fortunately come, despite the difficulties and tensions that exist with Turkey. I wanted to emphasise one aspect more strongly than in my report: in this context of openness we must not forget our vocation to the Atlantic projection, which has guaranteed peace and security at European level for many years. With this wish, I have nothing more to add in my reply. We will see, then, on the substance of the various issues that have been raised whether to intervene in the amendments and agendas that have been tabled. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u22	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u23	Madam President, I believe that the first point to be clarified is the importance of reaching a framework law on missions: it has been recalled by several parties and is clearly essential to allow a more detailed examination of the various missions, free from the question of a financial nature which today, on the other hand, sees us engaged in the conversion into law of a decree-law relating only to a period of three months. In this respect, I can only reiterate that the Government has followed the parliamentary path of this measure from the first moment, participating in all meetings at the Defence Commission of the House, in the Assembly and then in the Defence Commission of the Senate. I confirm the full willingness of the Government to arrive at the definitive conversion of this decree-law which is, of course, an absolutely essential part for a thorough examination of the individual missions. We can certainly define the threat of terrorism, which is clearly the most perceived at national and international level, hybrid, asymmetrical and, in fact, difficult to identify. It is a threat, therefore, that is fought both outside and within the country. That is why the missions - which, I recall, are clearly neither the result of a military decision nor the result of autonomous decisions, but always the result of parliamentary decisions and, in fact, the result of NATO, UN or European resolutions or decisions - combat terrorism in all parts of the world in which it manifests itself in a pronounced way or in any case in an effective manner. In other words, we cannot tackle the issues of defence and the incidence of terrorism by neglecting Afghanistan or Kosovo. Let us remember that it is in Afghanistan that Bin Laden's terrorism was born or developed; let us remember that there is a huge flow of migrants through Kosovo today, of which we do not know exactly all the aspects and possible effects on terrorism. How can we not also recognize that the mission in Lebanon is of fundamental importance, in a situation which not only refers, as at the beginning of its genesis, to issues relating to Israel and Palestine, but which today is at the centre of the Middle East conflict? Here too, we need to talk about EUNAVFOR MED and Daesh. I shall now turn more directly to the question of the internal threat, which is combated precisely by two works: the first is prevention and the second is surveillance of the territory. Again, I can only affirm the full action of the Government along two lines: intelligence, to which both human and financial resources are being spent, as announced by the Premier recently, and the surveillance of the territory. The Armed Forces are next to the Forces of Order in a number that had never been so high until today. It is also worth remembering that about ten days ago 700 people were immediately raised in the contingent of the Armed Forces on Rome, also in anticipation of the Jubilee, precisely to give visible answers and also increase the perception of security by citizens. The internal threat is therefore fought through these two guidelines, on which I repeat the action of the Government. As for the external threat, I have already said the importance of missions in the world, particularly in the Middle East. Certainly Italy is not an Italian: in relation to its economic and financial possibilities our country is carrying out the interventions deemed necessary. I would like to return for a moment to Afghanistan, a situation that has been taken up by several senators today precisely to question any outcome. I recall, however, that, as already indicated by the Minister of Defence on 10 November, 900 advanced primary and secondary schools are present in the province of Herat, 770 of which government, which are accessed free of charge, and 130 private, with 900,000 members. I remember that the latest data on literacy in Herat reported a rate of 43% for men and 28% for women, allowing them to rank third among Afghan cities for literacy, considering that the national average is 38 percent. On a higher level, there are today a public university, with 15,000 members, and nine other private universities, with a total of 6,000 members. Women today - we can also say this thanks to the efforts of our contingent and our mission - are 40% of university students. This is only to acknowledge the results achieved by the mission. With regard to the reasons for the continuation of the Afghan mission... SANTANGELO (M5S). But enough with these percentages, compared to what, then? What a ridiculous answer! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u24	Senator Santangelo, everyone has spoken and the government is responding, so please respect the Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u25	Mr Rossi, State Secretary for Defence. On the other hand, as regards the reasons for the continuation of the mission in Afghanistan, also in this case and always in the information, ample account has been given of the reasons for this choice which are then none other than the development of the terrorist presence, which has been higher than expected, resulting in a rise in capacity, with a consequent significant rate of losses in Afghan security forces, but which have not yielded its organic or operational value. Moreover, there is still a need for training and logistical support that is the sole purpose of the continuation of Resolute Support, therefore no mission other than that which was to end in 2015, no mission that has other reasons and no mission that brings back to ISAF. Turning now to Libya, I repeat what the rapporteurs have already indicated, also here with pride, because, if the conference of the main international and local actors on Libya announced for December 13 will take place in Rome, obviously this means that certain inputs and activations by the Italian Government have not only been examined, but have obviously been evaluated in positive terms. It is an essential conference in order to achieve the objective of establishing a government of a national character, which - as the Secretary-General of NATO Stoltenberg also said - is the only possible starting point to be able to build on it a military penetration capacity. As for the term Daesh, I remind the Divine Senator that it is an Arabic acronym, whose meaning is not the same as the Islamic State. In fact, in the term "Daesh" the Islamic factor is eliminated, because Muslims feel offended by these terrorists. In addition, this term has a pronunciation very similar to an Arabic word meaning "discord bearer." Finally, the term "Daesh" is so not accepted by the caliphate that those who use it seem to be subject to corporal punishment. In this sense, we promoted at the time (if I am not mistaken, already on the occasion of the conversion into law of two decrees-laws prior to this) the replacement of the term "ISIS" by "Daesh" precisely because we believe that this last term goes in the direction desired by you, Senator Divine, that is to say that we do not reaffirm the constitution of any Islamic State, because we obviously speak of terrorism in the pure state. I remember that against the Daesh there is a coalition that sees us engaged in first person, in very relevant numerical terms, perhaps among the most relevant. We are engaged in the training of peshmerga and we can proudly say that it was the peshmerga who freed, a few days ago, the city of Sinjar; those peshmerga that precisely the special forces and our men and women of the Italian army trained. Just as the work of aviation, be it refueling, but also reconnaissance, is essential for the coalition, because it manages to give information of an essential nature for the recognition of the objectives to which other nations can then intervene. As far as EUNAVFOR MED is concerned, I repeat that the Government is acting, with all its intentions, so that the mission can be operationally translated into all three planned phases, without any limit and without any restriction. Finally, I fully agree with those who have said that everything that concerns terrorism today is not a war of religion or culture, but a war against a part of Islam, a part that clearly offends Islam in the first place and turns against Islam itself and then against Western values. I close by saying that the conversion into law of the decree-law cannot help but reaffirm not only the validity of our missions, but also the fact that the United Parliament turns its attention to the men and women who are currently engaged in individual operations; Men and women to whom this Government has always referred, including as regards Senator Alicata, the question of financial resources and legal systems. I recall that this Government has unlocked the salaries and benefits of men and women in the defence and security sector, who had been blocked by many other governments. It has also unlocked the turnover, or at least re-evaluated its percentages, and this too can only be a point of merit to be assigned to this Government. The answer, therefore, has been given both with respect to the well-being and with respect to the legal systems, that is to say to the functioning and efficiency of the armed forces and police forces of this country, to which we believe that there must be maximum respect on the part of all, carrying out with efficiency an activity that is every day essential for the security of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u26	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency declares that amendments 1,32, 7- bis.1, 7- bis.2 and 7- bis.0.200 cannot be accepted because they are unrelated to the content of the decree-law. It also states that amendment 1.30, which provides for the suspension of an international treaty which has already been ratified, and amendment 8.1, which contains a valuable opinion to be included in a legislative text, and the related agenda G8.1, is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u27	Madam President, let us try to make some sense of this work, since the PD and the majority have not tabled an agenda or an amendment, so what is written in this decree probably suits them. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Madam President, I will try to explain the ratio... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u28	Senator, please explain your amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u29	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I ask that we speak in silence, otherwise I will remain silent and go on like this. You do it. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u30	You are trying to speak in the conditions in which all the senators in this House speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u31	SANTANGELO (M5S). Let me talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Speak and respect the Presidency. SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I respect you as much as you respect me. Let me talk!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u32	I respect you, but I invite you to intervene. A short time ago, the Undersecretary of Defense spoke in conditions I believe to be worse. I invite you to do your speech. SANTANGELO (M5S). Go, go! If you do the surgery!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u35	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I think that what my colleague wanted to say is that, since you say that the Undersecretary has also spoken in distraction... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Not in distraction, but with a loud buzz. AIROLA (M5S). All I need is for you to call the House to silence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You are right about this, I have done so in the past and I call on the House again to silence and listen to the senators who are speaking. I still call on Senator Santangelo to intervene if he intends to do so. SANTANGELO (M5S). Be on your own!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u36	Madam President, I will make a single speech to explain all the amendments that my Group has tabled, even in excessive numbers, in order to achieve the objective we have already faced with the Secretary, namely to demobilise all micro-operations and missions to concentrate all the human resources we have in the fight against terrorists occupying Syria and Iraq. In this way, all the resources currently devoted to cooperation, reconstruction and stabilisation will be recovered, in order to have maximum effectiveness and achieve the only objective of giving security to this country, focusing against the terrorists who are destabilising the whole Western world.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u37	Madam President, as we have already said in the Commission and on previous occasions, we believe that the Government has a duty to assess the EUNAVFOR MED mission which, among the many missions, is the last. The mission involves three phases, the main of which is the third, which should combat more effectively the activity of the boatmen in Libya. However, the third phase presupposes that a Libyan unitary government asks the United Nations to intervene in its territorial waters and, therefore, in the ports in order to be able to counter the activity of the scafisti. From reading the newspapers (we, in fact, as we will say even later, are absurdly excluded from the parliamentary committee for the security of the Republic and therefore we read the newspapers) we learn that Sirte would have arrived exponents of the Islamic State. Undersecretary Rossi, I continue to call him an Islamic State. Maybe in those areas they are offended if you use the word Daesh, but I think they are also offended if we say that they are Islamic (and they are). Not all Islamics are terrorists - we would miss that - but those terrorists and that terrorist state (a rogue state, it would have been said) are of strong and convinced Islamic inspiration. We read in the newspapers that Sirte, Libya, has arrived this equipment and therefore it seems difficult that there will be a Government of Libyan national unity able to ask the United Nations to intervene in the ports. I don't know if Baghdadi has arrived in person in Sirte or in Libya, but it certainly doesn't seem like one of those people who asks the United Nations to go to Libya to defeat the boatmen. Amendment 1.21, at my first signature, basically proposes to suspend this mission. Currently of the ships - Undersecretary, correct me if I am wrong, but it seems to me it is mainly of the ship Cavour - I am in the Mediterranean to follow this operation. Despite the first phases of the mission should be mentioned in a sort of investigation, often these ships have actually ended up competing for the transport of illegal immigrants in Italy. In fact, not being able to fulfil the fundamental task of contrasting the hullists (because, precisely, the third phase of the mission is not there and who knows when it will be) and given the emergency situation in existence, the ships in circulation end up bringing to Italy other illegals or refugees (no one knows who). We therefore believe that it is right to suspend the mission and to bring ships back to ports while waiting for conditions to mature in Libya. On 13 December an international conference should be held in Italy and - assuming that a miracle will happen, as Minister Gentiloni said yesterday in the Chamber - the conditions for the formation of a Government of national unity could ripen. I remember that the famous Bernardino León (the mediator who spoke a lot about him and who had a strong surname and a softer name) finished his mandate in glory because - I don't know if colleagues are aware of it - he put himself in the money of the United Arab Emirates for the small amount of $50,000 a month, thus discrediting the United Nations. The mediator who was to bring peace made friends, established contacts and, after his mandate, monetized his function. In this way the UN has made yet another bad figure and we do not know what the new mediator, which is German, is doing. Our request - I repeat - is to suspend the mission (a ship takes a few hours to return to the Italian ports), in order to put back at sea the ships in the fight against the scafisti only if the conditions mature. At present we do not understand what these ships do. This is the theme. We call for the mission to be modulated and suspended, waiting for the conditions to ripen. Italy is in charge of this and is within the UN framework. The United Nations is well aware of the situation. Bernardino León went to the United Arab Emirates with dollars and in his place now there is a German, with whom I believe he phones, and so we know what he does. In conclusion, EUNAVFOR MED is at this moment a farce mission, which I believe should also be suspended for the sake of respect for our military engaged in this initiative.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u38	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u39	I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u40	As we have already said in the Commission, the opinion is against all the amendments to Article 1, because they delete, remodulate and increase the missions. Specifically, with regard to agendas, on the agenda for G1.1, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini and on the EUNAVFOR MED mission, we are in favour of the first commitment mechanism. We have already said that in the Commission and we have already accepted the agenda, but it is being re-tabled in this House. We are in favour of the first commitment mechanism, but we are calling for the second mechanism to be put in place to suspend the mission. Meanwhile, there is a technical matter. We are on a mission and, if anything, we will be right in January if we have to suspend this type of mission, at the time of the planning of 2016. There is no need to decide now to suspend it. Then there is also a matter of merit. We believe that NEVFOR MED is a successful mission. Meanwhile, 22 European countries participate in it. We, with our Navy, were in a position to do this work alone, for the professionalism and excellence expressed by the Navy. On the basis, however, of the request to extend this problem to the European context, 22 countries joined it. This is already a success. On the subject, it is not true that we are there to do nothing. Meanwhile, we arrested 47 boatmen (if I remember the number) and saved 5,700 people, of which more than 400 children and 7 newborns. Of course, in the operation against migrant trafficking we also save lives, but this is a point of merit. The mission started in June 2015. The first phase was to last from five to six months, but in a month we ended it and we reached the second phase, where we operate in international waters. But the start of a Libyan stabilisation operation comes either from an agreement within the forces in Libya or from a UN Security Council resolution. If we leave international waters, that act corresponds to an invasion. The Minister explained well yesterday how it is working. Having an airship system already ready and considering all the European countries participating in the mission, asking for its suspension would be suicide. I therefore support the G1.1 agenda subject to this rewording. I am against the G1.2 agenda. Here, too, we are asking for clarification of the mission. I would like to remind the members of the Defence Commission in particular, but the House as a whole, that the President of the Commission, Senator Latorre, accepted a request from the 5 Star Movement Group, has given a deal to deepen all international missions. Therefore, in view of this, we do not understand why every time we are asked, with agendas, to deepen one mission rather than another. We will look into them all, but in the Commission. Therefore, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u41	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u42	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u43	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Cotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2 tabled by Senators Bertorotta and Airola. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.5 tabled by Senators Santangelo and Marton, identical to Amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Bertorotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Cotti, identical to amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Cotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Cotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senators Bertorotta and Marton, up to the words "Paragraph 5 ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 1.12 and 1.13. Let us move on to amendment 1,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,200, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, up to the words "paragraph 6 ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.14 to 1.17 are therefore not included. Let us move on to amendment 1,18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1,18, tabled by Senator Bertorotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1,203, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1,203, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, up to the words "paragraph 7". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,19, 1.20 and 1.21 are therefore not included. Let us move on to amendment 1.22, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.23 are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.24, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator Bertorotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.26.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u46	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, I rise to endorse Amendment No 1.26. Unfortunately, we have not approved the repeal of paragraph 7 despite, as has been said, it is absurd to continue to finance something that cannot be achieved; therefore, I subscribe to this amendment that, taking note of the fact that these funds are allocated in a non-congruent way, calls for at least a control and for a different direction to be guaranteed directed to the peace of the State in question, and not only the possibility of obtaining the possible consent of the State, which would not be in the current conditions, since the draft law does not respect the current situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u47	I call on Senator Santangelo and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,26. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Santangelo and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,27. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.28.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u50	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, this is the amendment that I have outlined earlier, which says - and I remind the rapporteurs - that participation in the UN-planned EUNAVFOR MED operation with ships that are expected to counter the hullers (which they are not doing because they are limited to the first phase of intelligence that means everything and nothing, while the third phase, the entry into Libyan waters, must be requested by a Libyan government that is not there) is a military operation that was based on optimism, on the success of negotiations and on the birth of a government of national unity. But this government is far from being born. That is why Amendment 1.28 proposes to suspend, not cancel, colleagues in the Senate, this mission if the conditions laid down by the mission do not occur by 31 December next. The amendment refers to the various stages provided for in Article 2 of the UN decision. So it is not a question of suspending it today, but, in fact, it is a question of doing exactly what the rapporteur said. First, the rapporteur said something that confirms the reasons for the amendment: this mission, Senator Vattuone, does not serve to bring relief but to counter the hullers. Now, you said that the ships involved in this mission transported 5,000 illegals to Italy, so you repeated exactly what we say. There would be a lot to discuss about helping illegals. We, on the subject of refugees and illegal immigrants, think like President Hollande, who, the day after the Paris attacks on 13 November, in front of the French Parliament meeting in common, with the song of the final Marseillaise, said: we must welcome refugees, according to European civilization and culture, but we must send the illegals away. This is what a leftist leader said at a tragic and dramatic time. On the other hand, we continue to bring them to our territory with wrong operations such as the European one, but also with improperly used ships. I would also like to point out to the Government that there is a problem of misuse of the resources of the mission. The rapporteur has, in fact, offered us news that we already knew that these ships are transporting illegals or refugees. But this mission was launched to counter the hullists in three stages. Therefore, we reiterate the validity of this amendment which proposes to suspend by 31 December the mission, which should be verified at the beginning of the new year, if it does not contrast the boatmen and instead carries illegals. In view of the reasons given by the rapporteur, I call on the House to vote in favour of this amendment, because otherwise there would also be responsibilities, I do not know whether criminal order or international law, for the abuse that is done by using ships for a purpose that does not conform to the activity of countering the scafism, provided for by the mission decided by the UN and which Italy directs. Therefore, if, instead of fighting the scafists, they are transported underground, a serious crime is also committed. That is why I call on Parliament to vote against a crime. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u53	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to Senator Gasparri's amendment 1.28. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u56	GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to Senator Gasparri's amendment 1.28.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u57	I take note of that. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,28, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Santangelo and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.29, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.30 is inadmissible. Senator Bertorotta, on Amendment 1.31 there is the opposite view of the Budget Commission conditional on rewording, in the sense that there is the clause of financial invariance. Do you accept the proposed reformulation? BERTOROTTA (M5S). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.31 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bertorotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.32 is unacceptable. Senator Gasparri, do you accept the invitation to delete the second part of the agenda device G1.1?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u58	Madam President, I would like to proceed as we did in the Commission, namely by asking for a split vote. I'll explain. The first part calls for a review of the implementation of all the phases that the UN has planned for the EUNAVFOR MED mission, namely the occurrence of the conditions for Libya, with a new government of national unity, to ask us to fight the hullers. The first part of the mechanism invites the Government to take all necessary steps to implement these parts of the mission. Personally I also interpret the International Conference on Libya, which will be held on 13 December, as an attempt: and I imagine that we will also talk about this. Therefore, I would insist on a split vote, because the other part of the device is not shared by the Government and rapporteurs and proposes the suspension of the missions. By voting for separate parts, we could distinguish a part, shared and accepted, from the rest of the device.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u59	If there are no objections, we can proceed in the proposed direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u61	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u62	AUGELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would just like to point out that I have already voted in favour of an amendment by Senator Gasparri and I will do the same, even if we vote separately on this agenda, essentially to raise an issue with the Government. We all agree that we do not change a mission from today to tomorrow, but we cannot all agree that we cannot maintain an endless situation starting from a premise that is currently unfounded. Beyond the vote, the government must address a fundamental issue: nothing allows it to believe that, by the end of the year, there is a solution to the instability and division of two governments that both claim international recognition. This open hole in our seas holds an extremely expensive military device, which was based on a completely different premise. There must be an answer to this point: it may not be given here; it may not be given within a week; but it is clear that the question that Senator Gasparri is asking, beyond the fact that he is a senator of the opposition and therefore does his job, is founded, exists, and is a problem that the Government must equip itself to give some answers. It seems clear to me that there is also some disproportion between the emphasis with which this mission has been presented and the objective results to which it can strive, lacking an international diplomatic framework that allows it to bear its consequences. To close it, with a vote - certainly now the majority will reject this agenda - does not resolve the issue, because the problem remains. I shall vote in favour of this, in dissent from my Group, to point out that the Government, in a few weeks, has to respond to a different scenario in the event that the diplomatic situation remains so; otherwise, it is a kind of veil that stands in the face of reality, but it is of no use.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u63	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and the first paragraph of the agenda item G1.1, presented by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the second paragraph of the agenda item G1.1, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Minzolini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.2 tabled by Senator Bertorotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u64	Madam President, I am speaking on the agenda for G2.1 by continuing the discussion in the Commission with the Government, which has expressed the opposite view and has suggested that it should be reworded at the same time. I understand the reasons for the opposition and I am willing to accept a possible proposal for reformulation by the Government, as the suggestions made in the Commission convinced us. The G2.1 agenda is currently in its original text, as it had already been presented to the House at the time of the discussion with the Government. On the substance, since we are going to close our mission in Georgia, which included the use of four staff units for the years 2014 and 2015 and had a not significant but important cost, given that we are talking about hundreds of thousands of euros, the G2.1 agenda calls for a report to be carried out on the conclusions of the mission, on the future prospects and on the reasons that led to its closure, also to understand if it was actually a fruitful initiative. As I said, we welcome the Government's suggestion and look forward to the proposed reformulation that it intends to make.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u65	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u66	I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u67	I am against all the amendments tabled to Article 2, for the same reasons as those on Article 1. On agenda G2.1 we rely on the rewording, if any, of the Government, taking into account that this too extends the principle applied to the agenda presented in Article 1, according to which we will address all questions relating to missions in the Commission and we would not like to make derogations, so we do not know what rewording the Government thinks. In addition, the G2.1 agenda refers to an incorrect financial aspect, because the mission was not nine months but three months.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u68	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u69	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur with regard to the amendments. The following rewording of the commitment contained in the agenda G2.1 is proposed: to provide, within the framework of the report provided for by law (Law No 130 of 2011, Article 9 (2)) with any appropriate information relating to the mission referred to above.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u70	Senator Lucidi, do you accept the rewording proposed by the government? LUCIDES (M5S). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u73	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam President, I rise to inform the House that Mr Falanga's car was set on fire this night. Of course, we know that Senator Falanga is engaged in the anti-Mafia Commission and this commitment to organised crime exposes him to such visibility that - as he himself reports - it is the second or third time he suffers such intimidation and damage to his car. We are therefore concerned and, as a group, we express our solidarity with him. We will also call for an appointment with the Minister for the Interior because we want our political commitments to be protected and for Senator Falanga to continue to express his political commitment in the Commission and in the Group, at all levels, without being intimidated or intimidated by those who obviously want to dissuade him. I wanted to inform the House because it is an event that has been repeated several times, and this time the threat has struck both the car and the driver's car: I believe that this involves some reflection on the part of all colleagues in the climate that we are experiencing and that we can well understand also in relation to what we are discussing today, the missions of our contingents and international crime, but there is also national crime.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u76	LUMIA (PD). Madam President, my Group too wishes to express its solidarity with Senator Falanga, because this fact must be condemned without any doubt. Parliament is right to talk about this and to give a very clear signal: this mafia intimidation must be rejected. Senator Falanga also has a character that certainly helps him not to let himself be intimidated, but next to him there is the policy that perhaps better is able to say that this is a dangerous signal that must be rejected and on which we must all strive to create that climate by which the state can beat and win those who use these methods.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u79	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, on behalf of my Group too, I wish to express my solidarity with Senator Falanga. The matter is quite serious, because they were drawn by attack - will confirm the verification that the police are carrying out - two cars, one of Senator Falanga and the other of his driver. The fact that there are two of them - if the police will check this - the cars that are being fired, each for a separate action, makes the situation even more worrying and therefore I believe that solidarity with Senator Falanga is a due act of the whole Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u82	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, with Senator Falanga in the anti-Mafia Commission and the Committee investigating mafia infiltrations in local authorities, we have dealt with rather thorny issues and we already knew that they would arouse the attention of organised crime. For this reason, on behalf of my Group, I express my solidarity with my colleague for what has happened and I call on all the groups to express their utmost commitment here and in the anti-Mafia Commission to combat these phenomena, because the circumstances we have dealt with in the Committee are indeed of unprecedented seriousness. Unfortunately, they are still not in the public domain, but we hope that we will soon be able to discuss them calmly and serenely so that those who seek to investigate these things do not have to do so at their own risk. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u85	BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, on behalf of my Group, I have already personally expressed my solidarity with Senator Falanga and I am very pleased to be able to do so in this House, as I did to the press to support the work of a senator who has always done and will continue to do his work with particular capacity in that Anti-Mafia Commission. This capacity is probably the cause of the particular attention of the criminal organizations towards a colleague who, sided against them, in every place where he works or exercises his role manages to put in trouble the crime that we would instead want indifferent and inattentive. This capacity must be joined by a knowledge of the territory, of the dynamics of these administrations, and of situations that, as my colleague Mr Giarrusso has just said, when you read written on the documents, there is to be rested on how the State backs even in its organizations closest to the territory and more important on issues that instead must always see our attention very high. I hope that Mr Falanga will not be intimidated, that he will not be afraid, and that is why I hope that the closeness of this House will give him the strength to continue his battle. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u88	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we in the Northern League Group also join our colleagues in expressing our solidarity with Senator Falanga. This is an absolutely serious fact, since the initiatives he has taken are more than legitimate, indeed due by a political exponent, who follows, appreciates and wants to support and protect his territory. These are forms that are always and still a great feeling of anxiety, because it is thought that Italy can now be free from a certain type of activity. Unfortunately they exist and therefore the activity of the Member, the politician and the representative of the territory must be particularly valued, since we can do much, as Senator Falanga was doing and is doing. We therefore hope that Senator Falanga will not be intimidated: knowing his temperament, I do not think he will. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u91	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, we too want to speak, not to join the choir, but in the belief that the action that Senator Falanga is taking on the territory, together with the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, is absolutely convinced and important. We therefore hope that he will continue to have the same courage as he has already shown, even in the future of his action, and to continue his work in the Anti-Mafia Commission and on the ground, with the same commitment and the same strength. We know that Senator Falanga exposes himself, because we know his exuberant character: he is a person who always shows courage and we hope he shows it also for the future. We are close to Senator Falanga, so that on the ground he continues his action against crime, against the mafia and does not let himself be intimidated by these cowardly actions. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u94	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of the whole Mixed Group, expressing the utmost solidarity with Senator Falanga for what has happened, with the strong conviction that he must not leave him alone and support his political initiative in the coming days. I have had the opportunity, in these years of sharing the commitment to the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, to take various initiatives with Senator Falanga on my territory - we are in fact expressions of the same territory - naturally transversal. I think I can say that Senator Falanga is a good person; he is a person who puts on the field a constant and continuous work to defend the values of the fight against the mafia and the camorra. Above all, Senator Falanga does not give discounts to anyone and it is likely that this mode has put him in trouble. I think that, if only for this reason, the formal and declared solidarity of this Parliament must go not only to him, but also to a very strong substantial solidarity, which I think can see united all the parliamentary groups. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u95	The Presidency joins, shares the words of my fellow Members and is close to Senator Falanga at this time when he has been subjected to a very serious intimidation, which - I believe - will to some extent strengthen him in defending the values he has committed himself to in the Anti-Mafia Commission and on the ground. I hope that the government can acclaim the ways in which these acts of intimidation have taken place and commit itself to the protection of Senator Falanga's political and parliamentary activity, in order to guarantee his freedom and full expression. Of course, the Presidency - and I think I am interpreting, in particular, the President's thinking - is close to Senator Falanga and will not miss all the support and support necessary for the continuation of his parliamentary activity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u96	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Marton and other senators, up to the words "Paragraph 1 ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 2.2 to 2.7 are therefore excluded. We move on to Amendment 2.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BERTOROTTA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Bertorotta, until the words "in" with the following words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 2.9 to 2.12. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.13, tabled by Senators Santangelo and Marton. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.14 tabled by Senators Cotti and Bertorotta, identical to amendment 2.15 tabled by Senators Santangelo and Marton. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.16 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 2,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Tarquinio (CoR). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,200, tabled by Senator Tarquinio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.17, tabled by Senator Cotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 218, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DIVINE (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). In accordance with Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 2. 18, presented by Senator Divine and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.19 tabled by Senator Cotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DIVINE (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.20, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.21, tabled by Senator Cotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.22, tabled by Senator Cotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.23, tabled by Senator Cotti, identical to amendment 2.24, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.25, tabled by Senator Cotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.26, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DIVINE (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.26, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators, up to the number 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.27 are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.28, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.29, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Santangelo and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.30, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The agenda has been reworded according to the rapporteur: do you insist on the vote, Senator Lucidi? LUCIDES (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Lucidi. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are described and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u97	Madam President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u98	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u99	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. De Cristofaro (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3,200, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, up to the words "the paragraph 1 ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u102	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would ask you to remain in the proceedings which you did not put to the vote in support of the request for an electronic vote: if it is a practice, from now on, we will automatically vote by electronic vote; otherwise, we will redo the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u103	You are right, I only voted for the request for an impervious amendment to be voted on; we cancel the vote and repeat the vote by show of hands. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,200. SANTANGELO (M5S). On this occasion, I would ask that votes be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Although the electronic vote has already been taken, we regularly repeat the previous vote, after having gained support for the electronic vote. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3,200, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators, up to the words "paragraph 1 ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 3.1 to 3.4 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.5 tabled by Senators Santangelo and Marton. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.6, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators, up to the words "Paragraph 2 ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.7 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 3.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.8, tabled by Senator Marton and other senators, up to the word "Gibuti". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 3.9 and 3.201 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Cotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As the authors ask for the vote, I ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.11, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u104	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u105	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u106	I put to the vote Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Cotti. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.2. GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Cotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator Cotti, identical to Amendment 4.4, tabled by Senators Santangelo and Marton. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BERTOROTTA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.5 tabled by Senator Bertorotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.6, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,200, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.7 tabled by Senator Cotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.8, tabled by Senators Santangelo and Marton. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.9 tabled by Senator Bertorotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.10, tabled by Senator Cotti, identical to amendment 4.11, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.12, tabled by Senators Santangelo and Marton, until the words " (a) " are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.201 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.13, tabled by Senator Cotti, identical to amendments 4.14, tabled by Senators Santangelo and Marton, and 4.15, tabled by Senator Divine and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u107	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u108	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u109	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1. GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.1 tabled by Senator Cotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which are described and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u110	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u111	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u112	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1. GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.1 tabled by Senator Cotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,200, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.2, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 6,201, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6,201, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u113	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u114	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u115	I put to the vote Amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Cotti. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 7-a of the Decree-Law. I would remind you that amendments 7-a.1, 7-a.2 and 7-a.0.200 are impossible because they are out of line with the content of the decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u116	Madam President, first of all I would like to know whether Amendment 7- bis.1 has been declared inadmissible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Yes, because of the extraneousness of matter, as has also been done in the House. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I believe that this amendment has been discussed in the House. It concerns - just to be clear - the story of Copasir, which is a very delicate issue and closely related to international missions and what happens. First I mentioned the EUNAVFOR MED mission, which is addressed to Libya, where everything happens. There is a serious violation that persists, so a parliamentary group is excluded from the Copasir and we cannot find a legislative vehicle that allows everyone, by extending the Committee, to participate. The more the international crisis becomes worse, the more serious the issue becomes; and is there a declaration of imperishability on this amendment? I don't understand. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 7- bis.1 is impossible because of the extraneousness of the subject matter to the content of the decree-law. However, I can assure you that this approach is in line with that of the House of Deputies. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). This issue has been discussed in the Chamber of Deputies. I am not a member of the House, but it has certainly been discussed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, I assure you that the amendment has been declared inadmissible. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Then I would like to continue my speech. Colleagues, my group will vote in favour of this measure because we believe that military missions are essential and useful in 99% of cases. We have a reservation, which I have already explained, on the continuation of a particular mission because we believe that it is not necessary to do so, but that it is not fulfilling the tasks entrusted to it. There is a very serious problem. The President-in-Office of the Council calls for national cohesion and the proper need for convergence in the fight against terrorism and the security problems facing the world and, therefore, also Italy, but we continue to see that, with shameful procedural expedients, an amendment that addresses the problem of the composition of the Copasir is even declared unacceptable. After several meetings of the Joint Conference of House and Senate Leaders (of which we acknowledge President Grasso and President Boldrini), the problem of Copasir's transparency due to the exclusion of a parliamentary group, despite the facts that are happening in the world, is not solved. Obviously, we want to prevent a parliamentary group from having access to news which, although with due confidentiality, must be known. This is shameful; to entrench oneself behind the declaration of unproposability of an amendment is a real shame. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] If this is national cohesion against terrorism, I am truly outraged. We shall have difficulty voting in favour of this measure. We believe that the engagement of the Armed Forces is important, but continuing in this way is shameful after - I read it in the newspapers because my Group is not present at the Copasir - terrorist Salah came to Italy, took the ferry to Bari and went to Syria and then returned from Greece and cross Italy again. Terrorist cells are discovered everywhere and I therefore believe that it is a democratic need for the representation of all the parliamentary groups within the Copasir and that, dear President, it is an absolute shame for the procedural expedient adopted with regard to this amendment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u117	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u118	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u119	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u120	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u123	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I believe there is a need for clarification on a previous vote. If I did not miss it, but it could have been, in Article 5, only one amendment had been tabled, of a deleterious nature (amendment 5.1, signed by Senator Cotti). Nevertheless, the amendment was put to the vote rather than the retention of the article, while you, Madam President, teach me that in these cases we are voting on the retention of the article and not the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u124	Senator Candiani, I just mentioned the question that maybe she wasn't caught. We are examining a bill of conversion of a decree-law and, therefore, it consists of a single article and the amendments are submitted to the articles of which the decree-law is composed. For this reason, we did not vote for the retention of the article, but for the amendment. Senator Candiani, thank you for your request for clarification, because the issue - as I said - had only been briefly mentioned, since I had heard someone raise this objection in this House. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 7-a.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u125	We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u126	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7- bis.200, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7- bis.201, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7- bis.202, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7- bis.203, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 7-a.1 and 7-a.2 cannot be proposed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7- bis.204, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7-a.205, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 7-a.0.200 is unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u127	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u128	The Government shall comply with the opinion delivered by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u129	I would remind you that Amendment 8.1 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u130	We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u131	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.2, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.3, tabled by Senator Bertorotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G8.1 agenda is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u132	I am against all the amendments. The opinion was in favour of the G9.1 agenda (text 2) and opposed to the G9.2 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u133	The Government shall comply with the opinion delivered by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u134	Let us move on to Amendment 9.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u135	We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u136	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.1, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Santangelo and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 9.2. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The vote on amendment 9.3 is conditional on a rewording requested by the 5th Commission. The Budget Committee has called for the inclusion of the financial invariance clause in the text. I ask the first signatory, Senator Santangelo, if he accepts this reformulation. SANTANGELO (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.3 (text 2), tabled by Senators Santangelo and Marton. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G9.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u139	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President, even on behalf of Senator Maurizio Romani, I declare that during the last vote we mistakenly voted against, whereas instead we wanted to be in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u142	BLUNDO (M5S). I would ask you to sign the agenda G9.2. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G9.2 tabled by Senator Lucidi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u145	REPETTI (Misto-IPI). Madam President, we are about to vote on the extension of international missions, a measure which is now closely linked to the latest dramatic events in Paris. [[Brusio.]] President, I'm sorry, but I can't move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u146	You're right, Senator. Please allow those Members who are not interested in listening to explanations of vote to drop out quickly and, if possible, quietly from the House to allow those who are speaking to speak. Please, Senator Repetti, continue. 11:56 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u147	I would like to say at once that, alongside the danger of terrorism, there is another: that of more nationalisms and power policies that put peace and economic progress at risk. That is why the situation is particularly complicated today and it is important to clarify it. There is no doubt that in the past serious mistakes have been made - the most recent is intervention in Libya - but the problem remains of combating fundamentalist terrorism and doing so unequivocally. We must be clear what has happened in Paris and what is happening, namely that the West, as well as the moderate Arab states, is under attack. Whether it's called war or otherwise, the substance doesn't change: we're under attack, and it's natural to wonder why. A serious analysis does not allow us to give a simple answer: the truth is that it is a war entirely internal to Islam, even before against the West, beginning with the opposition between Sunnis and Shiites. In fact, we must respond to this war or attack, and we must do so with a broad international coalition, which has clear and transparent objectives, and of course the first condition is an agreement between Russia and the United States, which extends to the Arab countries that can contribute to the stabilisation of that region of the world. Italy can and must make an essential contribution to this strategy, without pursuing - on this I agree - the desire for protagonism, but not even yielding - and I am convinced of this - to that neutrality which, unfortunately, has marked much of our history. When a credible and cohesive coalition against Daesh or ISIS takes shape, we will have to do our part in full. On the other hand, Italy today is present, with sacrifices and also obvious merits, in all areas of crisis where the international community has decided to intervene to fight terrorism and heal ethnic and military conflicts. That is why we are here today to confirm this commitment. I conclude by saying that we cannot deny that this is a dramatic moment, and that it is likely to be a long one, but we must react forcefully in order to resume our march towards peace as soon as possible and a fairer and more widespread economic progress in the world. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u150	BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are called to discuss the renewal of our missions, when the murderous attack in Paris still torments us, which marks the most complex moment of the civil war going on in the Islamic world, which, with dramatic and often unpredictable results, has spread throughout the West. And it is precisely from the considerations evoked by this worrying international political context that we must frame our choices for the extension of international armed and police missions for the consolidation of peace processes. Without bearing in mind the dynamics of this terrible confrontation in progress, we risk to connotate our missions only with a tired bureaucratic and routine spirit and - alas - this is clearly the approach of the Government on this matter, decisive also for the affirmation of the role of Italy at international level. We Conservatives and Reformists have a completely different sensitivity and vision. And then we see, with concern, that the Government, especially for the missions that have lasted for many years now (it is thought that the successive ones in Lebanon go back to 1983), is not able to enter into the merit of the results obtained in order to see in perspective the operational developments. Our military missions should be a fundamental flywheel for the development of our initiative in the world, but precisely the weakness and frailty of foreign policy in Renzi's era favours a lazy, bureaucratic and customary approach of our missions that certainly does not help to exalt the enormous efforts of the men and women who are engaged in it and, consequently, also the huge resources released and spent on this side are not fully valued. The lack of a dynamic and diachronistic vision brings out other weaknesses in the measure under consideration, which demonstrate the government's more bureaucratic than political vision. This is the case of the mission born from an impulse of the European Union, the one cited by President Gasparri, called EUNAVFOR MED, that is firm at the initial stage because the operation is still limited to action on the sea to collect, as is right, the desperate who have now begun the crossing - but among them, as has been shown, also confuse terrorists - while today this mission should have already evolved directly in Libya for a more firm and concrete contrast of the illicit trafficking of human beings, blocking the departure of the boats to strangle a source of financing of Islamic terrorism, as well as all the other problems. It was necessary to arrive at this stage through a UN authorization and the request of a Libyan Government, which is not yet visible on the horizon, precisely because of the inertia of the Government, which, however, always with a bureaucratic spirit, has agreed to command this same mission that is currently different from the development that had initially been foreshadowed to it. In this context, the Government would do well to consider more seriously the intricate and contradictory relationship of alliances; in particular Turkey has strategic and tactical interests that do not coincide with those of the West because it looks favorably at fundamentalists in Syria and Libya. Mr. Undersecretary, I absolutely don't want to give up on you, but I'm sorry the Minister isn't here. Mr Pinotti, Minister for Defence. Senator Bonfrisco, the Minister of Defence is here! BONFRISCO (CoR). I am referring to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs Pinotti, and I thank you for being here. The Foreign Minister would have been reminded, if he had been present, that in a very complicated situation such as the Middle East, a clear foreign policy unfortunately lacks the Renzi Government. The Foreign Minister had expressed the need to compose the various interests represented by Turkey, Russia, the US and the EU in order to unite all forces against ISIS, but his seems to be only a beautiful wish because it does not explain how to achieve the anti-Daesh unity between nations that have different or even opposed orientations as especially in the case of Russia and Turkey. Russia wants to maintain its sole base in the Mediterranean and protect its oil interests (compromised by ISIS that sells underground, as it is already known for a long time, well before the denunciation made by Putin, oil at less than fifty percent of the price set at the plates of London); and with Russia can exist the conditions to reason on the after Assad. On the other hand, Turkey, NATO ally today absolutely unreliable, makes everything more complicated, because it is interested in repressing the Kurds (which control a vast area rich in water and oil) and to realize, as President Casini very clearly pointed out, a neo-Ottoman policy to exercise its influence from the Middle East to Libya. And one of the tools used by Turkey to achieve this goal is precisely the Daesh, which is now expanding to Libya with the risk of irreparably compromising also our huge oil interests in this region. For now we see Russia, France, Germany, the USA, the United Kingdom acting decisively against ISIS, while Italy is tarnished and is in danger of being dangerously isolated. We also see a weakness in the case, unheard of and never remembered enough, of our Marine rifles Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone. For almost four years now they have been living a grave injustice, no longer tolerable. And the great quantitative and qualitative contribution of Italy in international peace missions should have led the Government to re-propose the case of our Maròs on this occasion. But even in this case the government has a bureaucratic and routine attitude. In the interests of the nation we will vote for this bureaucratic measure, but we strongly reaffirm that a new foreign policy is needed to combat terrorism effectively and to give Italy a driving force in the world. The Conservatives and Reformists, whom I represent, will therefore vote in favour not to approve the work of the government, which also in this matter does not deserve our trust, but only for responsibility before the nation that engages our armed forces in very delicate missions, in various contexts now even for many years, with men and women who with professionalism and generosity help to consolidate the peace processes in areas among the most tormented in the world, at the price of their lives. That price presupposes that this government and this country have a foreign policy, which they do not currently have. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u153	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I should like to begin by referring to a sort of background. We have to run to approve a measure because it is presented in the form of the decree-law. It was difficult to support the thesis of the Mixed Group, namely that there were no elements of necessity and urgency, also because we have military on war scenarios and the resources have ended or not authorized and expired since 30 September. Having said that, if it is said that it is mandatory to recognize the requirements of necessity and urgency, one question must be asked upstream: is it not that the government specifically allows the deadlines to expire and then must arrive with the decree-law, given the necessity and urgency, conditioning Parliament and expropriating it substantially of the discussion, of the evaluation, so that all the good intentions and the proposed amendments must be rejected simply because there is no longer time otherwise the measure expires? I wonder if this doesn't happen instrumentally. In the speeches under discussion and in general discussion, we reiterated the need for the League. The moment is difficult. We have an enemy, we know where it has been, where it operates, where it creates destabilizion, human violence and the historical and architectural heritage of humanity. But we maintain some sort of historical standard of powdery intervention. Today it is no longer necessary to maintain small units that cost much as logistics, as fittings and so on, in situations where there is no real danger to the nation. If the Army and the defence serve to guarantee national security, today national security has an enemy and is well identified: it is useless to chase its tentacles, we hit the head. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Let's hit her and we don't wait that long anymore. The League, if I may say almost from Cassandra, seeing the problems in advance, has been saying for years to create a naval blockade from which many refugees and, mixed with them, terrorists also start. We had the elements, we had our Services telling us what was happening, nothing was done at all in terms of prevention. We have seen that between Belgium and France - going to the last events - there were terrorists on the front line coming from precisely those flows that we said to control. Today it is not enough to control them there; we must be even more cautious and cautious towards the security of our country. Today we must do exactly what France and Germany do, which they say: we block Schengen and control borders. We want to know who comes from, where he comes from, what he comes from, when he leaves, why he leaves and why he comes back. We can no longer allow free movement at a historic moment when we are under attack and we don't even know what the enemy looks like because we find out when he drowns blood everywhere. Let us give another warning to the Government: we cannot defeat terrorism by restoring what was the Cold War, that is, keeping the Russians out of the diplomatic question. Today Russia is increasingly being cornered. Today NATO continues to make a mistake by incorporating many former bloc countries into NATO, sending messages not of peace to the Russian Federation and even forcing the European Community and Italy which is part of it to strike Russia with economic sanctions that it pays for the first time in history. For the first time, those who sanction are also the ones who are most penalised by sanctions, because Russia has found other channels to achieve its objectives (food supplies), while those who paid the price of sanctions to Russia, almost imposed by beyond the Atlantic, are exactly us. At the moment, we cannot but involve Russia, which is perhaps the only effective state on the ground, the only state that is fighting terrorism and is protecting, above all, the West and Europe. They are fighting for us; we cannot continue to show Russia hostile attitudes, with sanctions and ambiguity such as NATO and like NATO states, Turkey in the first place. Compared to the latter, it is no longer clear which side it is on, because Turkey is playing a double, triple, dirty game. He announced that he wanted to be part of our blockade, but at first he stopped the Kurdish refugees fleeing from very ferocious attacks, because the old dispute with the Kurds and the PKK prevailed over the objectivity and reasoning that imposed the moment. At first it causes massive massacres, at a later moment it shoots down the only planes that fight against Islamic terrorism because for seventeen seconds they flew over their sovereign airspace. I continue to call them terrorists and I hope that the Ministry and our country will abandon acronyms and acronyms, so much ISIS and Daesh, because this means consecrating what the terrorists want. They do not have a state, they have occupied the territories, but they would like to send the message to the Islamic world that there is a state for which so many fools, naives and young fanatics give up everything, the country and the family, to go and fight a holy war. We must remove this bulwark from them: there is no Islamic State for which it is worth fighting a holy war. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We must fight a monster that is worrying the whole West. Turkey plays on more tables, says it is part of NATO but buys huge quantities of oil, feeds terrorists by buying it and even, as well as using it for internal needs, sells it on our markets. We would like an information from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence to know if the Italian companies that bought it knew their origin or if they were unaware of it. Because of inactivity, inability and unwillingness to see the problem we are feeding our own enemies. To the government we say that we cannot approve this decree-law missions, with all the responsibility we have towards our military forces and our soldiers, who are taking risks in so many parts of the world. We cannot leave them so "dusted" and so ineffective and with the only instrument we have to defend ourselves, left historically at the mercy, because this has always been the case and so it must be. From now on everything has changed and, from now on, the military strategy of our country must also change. We are tired of seeing blood and throats cut and we want to see our government a little more active on that front. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u156	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Madam President, this is the umpteenth time that we are voting on a decree-law extending international missions and I really hope that it will be the last one, hoping that the framework law on international missions will be adopted as soon as possible, which will allow us to make an overall deepening once a year, without proceeding from time to time through the method of urgent decree. Parliament must note that the international framework has changed profoundly, unfortunately for the worse, even if there is almost a sort of modesty to pronounce the word "war" despite the fact that the war has been declared to us and that President Hollande has asked for the activation of Article 42 (7) of the Treaty on European Union, as amended by the Treaty of Lisbon, asking Europe to support it in the defence of its country. It is a call to arms that has remained largely unheard of, since individual Member States will decide whether and to what extent they will contribute to the French war effort, on the basis of agreements between their respective governments. It is an initiative that de facto states the futility of Community instruments in the war on ISIS: a fact which has already emerged, moreover, in the application of the agreements to deal with the immigration emergency, in which Italy and Greece have been left alone. In addressing the node missions it is inevitable to talk about the role that Italy intends to play in the coming months. It is true that, within the US-led coalition, Italy was the only partner to employ its four bomb-free Tornado bombers, while all other European countries played an absolutely marginal role. It is also true that we have over a thousand soldiers in Lebanon, engaged in the UNIFIL mission - of which Italy has assumed command - that we are strengthening our engagement in Afghanistan, at American request, that in Iraq, Kurdistan and Kuwait our 650 soldiers engaged in the Prima Parthica mission perform logistical functions, training and support fundamental to the ongoing war. It is true that the Kurds who fight against ISIS are educated by Italians, that, in the central Mediterranean, the aircraft carrier Cavour is the command ship of Operation Sophia and that 580 Italian military are engaged in maritime surveillance. It is also true that the decree to refinance our military missions abroad is worth about 300 million euros for the quarter September-December 2015, for a total expenditure of 1.2 billion euros in a year. In short, Madam Minister, we are doing this, but in the face of the escalation that is taking place and the new failure of the European common policy, it appears too minimalistic to send a few hundred more soldiers along the border between Lebanon and Israel, a border that is currently marginal compared to the war on ISIS. It is right to ask, as our Premier did, for a cabin of international direction and a global strategy for the war on ISIS, but to evoke for this the Libyan scenario, which came to be created after the wretched war on Gaddafi, seems to us improper and wrong, because in Tripoli there was a situation of stability that armed intervention has destabilised, while in Iraq and Syria there is a destabilisation left to rot by the West, which has favored the birth of a terrorist state and therefore needs a solution as quickly as possible. This is a growing situation, in which it is no longer just a matter of consolidating our role in international balances, as a state belonging to the G8 or as the founding country of the Atlantic Alliance and the European Union, but, in a more extensive way, of participating with the greatest commitment and with the greatest credibility in the efforts of the international community, to stabilise and pacify crucial areas of the planet, in the grip of new phenomena, which come to have violent and threatening repercussions even in the heart of Europe. Therefore, leaving the initiative and coordination of operations to France and the United Kingdom once again would be a mistake which, among other things, would not protect us from the consequences of the war and not even from the threat of attacks. We have to ask ourselves what our national interest is today, which, first of all, cannot be to let Hollande dictate the Libyan agenda, that is, the president of that country who dragged the West in 2011 right into the Libyan pantan. And about Libya: this decree-law also refinances the European mission EUNAVFOR MED, to combat illegal immigration, but it is a mission at the moment completely inertial, because to be made truly effective it would have to go to the third and decisive phase, the one that should give rise to the effective dismantling of the net of the hullers, but that presupposes the consent of the Government concerned, that is the Libyan Government, that however still does not exist, and a resolution of the UN Security Council, that still is not there. The Italian initiative of 13 December is certainly appropriate, but it will take a long time to reach a Libyan government of national unity. The interweaving of human traffickers and the financing of Islamic terrorist power stations is a real threat, and therefore in the first place of the international agenda must be considered not only the need to bring down ISIS in Syria and Iraq, but also the absolute need to resume the Libyan situation, whose state of chaos creates a ground that is more favourable to the expansion of Islamic fundamentalism. In this context, it is clear that the state of tension between the Atlantic Alliance and Russia must be overcome, avoiding, for example, that the NATO Active Endeavour mission in the eastern Mediterranean, which includes the means and personnel of our Navy, takes on an unnecessarily hostile character towards Russia, whose support is essential to the fight against terrorism, both in Syria and Iraq and especially in Libya. What we have to deal with is a war, for one part, unconventional and, for another, to be fought in the territories conquered by ISIS. For this reason it is to be welcomed the inclusion in the decree-law of those norms that extend the healings of the secret services to our special forces possibly engaged in missions abroad. Since the scenario that is emerging is that of support for the raids that the US government has finally announced that it wants to implement to capture the leaders of ISIS, strengthening the regulatory protection of our special forces certainly goes in the right direction. In conclusion, this decree-law is in full harmony with the parliamentary vote of August 2014, with which we joined the anti-Daesh coalition. We have chosen in this coalition to help the people and, above all, the forces that are facing on the ground the advance of ISIS, the first of all the Kurdish peshmerga, to which all our gratitude goes for the irreplaceable mission they are carrying out for the West and for the defence of the values of democracy and freedom. But it is the whole international community that must now make a qualitative leap, free the territories occupied by ISIS and above all those oppressed peoples from a war that is primarily within Islam, of those who want to transform a religious faith into a totalitarian ideology and build a crazy dream of world domination. And Italy cannot confine itself to the role of water carrier. [[Applause from the AL-A Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u159	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to make a few comments which, in fact, are not particularly different from those which I had the opportunity to make yesterday during Mr Gentiloni's report in the Chamber. I want to start from the difficulty of expressing a judgment and a position on two issues which, in our opinion, should be strongly linked and which, instead, are presented as if there were an element of discrasia that makes it difficult to make an organic reasoning. These days, also following the dramatic events we discussed in this House (I am referring to the attacks in Paris and, first, to the equally serious ones in the Hezbollah district of South Beirut and, first, to the killing of the Russian plane back from Sharm-el-Sheik) we had a prudent, acceptable, even wise attitude on the part of our Government, and we, the opposition force, had no problem highlighting its positivity. In some ways, this attitude is linked to the need, as Minister Gentiloni said yesterday, to put in place, this time, not to repeat a series of mistakes made in the past, a fully strategic reasoning, aimed at fully understanding what are the most effective tools to fight the Daesh and the threat of the policy of terror. This element of prudence, from our point of view, I repeat, has been a happy intuition put on the field. I also think that the responsibility that has been asked of all political forces to address these issues in a serious and reasoned manner, avoiding the easy propaganda, is a legitimate demand. To Minister Pinotti, present here, I say, however, that, in my opinion, this responsibility cannot be confused with acriticism, because one can be responsible, but also critical about some elements that, in our opinion, continue to represent a problem and that are precisely the reason why this attitude seems to put in place an element of discrasia. I say this in another way: if this prudence is true and this prudent and wise attitude towards what is happening is right, then we need a more rigorous analysis and assessment than has been the case in the last 20 years. Keeping the two issues separate, for which, on the one hand, there is an intelligent attitude to the facts of Paris and to what has happened these days, and, on the other hand, there is a tired and ritual repetition of the judgment that we have given for several months now on the international missions in which Italy participates, it seems to us honestly an element of difficulty: on this specific point we want to exercise our critical emphasis. Just the international situation and the things that are happening these days would have deserved a different kind of approach on international missions than the one that has taken place in the last two and a half years, in which we needed to make a systematic assessment of the military missions in which Italy is engaged. That is also why for a long time now we have always criticized - and we are doing so again this morning - the fact that these missions cannot be discussed separately. For example, for some time now I believe that the UNIFIL mission, in which Italy participates in the Lebanon-Israel border, is of great positivity. I got to see her with my own eyes, when I was there, guest of the Italian contingent doing a wonderful job in that territory. I think, for example, that mission is not in any way associated with others, military, in which Italy participates and on which I express very, very significant elements of doubt or even dissent. The fact that we cannot have a systematic debate, a separate mission by mission, to take stock of the individual missions and the fact that we cannot discuss whether they have actually led to an element of progress or, vice versa, we have put in place problematic elements, is a very strong limit of this debate. I think that, all the more so, if responsibility is asked for, within such a complex phase as that which not only our country, but the world is living in these weeks, would serve precisely this kind of reasoning. It would be useful to understand, in the areas of intervention in particular in some parts of the world, whether the military interventions that have been there in recent years have actually contributed to peace and stability or whether, instead, some of these military interventions have accentuated chaos and destabilisation, without producing a positive result in the fight against terrorism, determining even a condition within which the so-called policy of terror could easily build an element of proselytism. It is a reasoning that, in my opinion, we must make in all its seriousness and complexity, also because we have learned that the emotional reactions, let's call them so, that there have been in these years (one for all, the US-led mission immediately following the dramatic events of 11 September) and not simply the last - that of France compared to the events that happened in Paris - would have deserved much more rigorous and much more analysis. It was probably missions that not only did they not defeat terrorism and not only caused a situation of great instability, but they also represented real military interventions, often broken down, which generated more chaos and increased the level of instability. Of course, this applies both to Afghanistan and Iraq. Now, I do not want to remember things that we have said a thousand times in this House, but we Westers have waged a war in Iraq by essentially claiming that there were weapons of mass destruction owned by the dictator of the time and these weapons have not been found. If even the main protagonists of that war (Bush on the one hand and Blair on the other), many years later, recognize this element, it really seems a little strange that this Parliament does not have the strength to question all the way about those missions. The missions in Afghanistan and Iraq were disastrous; they were missions that did not fight terrorism, that did not put in place that element of so-called lasting freedom - so it was called - that should have ensured the stability of the area, but instead they were missions that unfortunately have the Daesh, the ISIS, the Islamic State, the so-called Islamic State, stronger and more rooted than before. This is a point of reflection that we cannot postpone. This is not just about saying that we want to defeat the Daesh. Of course we want to defeat the Daesh, but the point we need to reflect on together is to try to figure out the most effective method of defeating it. However, I think I can say that today this analysis is also widely recognized by various geopolitical experts not only of our country, but of many other parts of the world. Perhaps the war on terrorism, if we mean it as we have known it in recent years, with rain bombardments and with those strategies that have not produced the results imagined but have increased the suffering and destabilised the situation even more, has proved to be a completely ineffective element. I think we should do a more thorough analysis of these issues, and I also think that if we did, this would probably also give us the tools to put a more effective policy into place. When we talk, for example, about the need to build a real embargo against the Daesh, first of all hitting trade, arms, oil, the things that are at the center of a very harsh political debate these days (given what is happening between Russia and Turkey and the accusations that have been put on the ground by the Russian State in these days), well, I think all this matter would need and will need a more systematic deepening on our part. I think, for example, that it would be very correct if we put in place a real moratorium on the sale of arms. The arms trade in the Middle East is a very serious problem; in the last two years our country has sold 1.5 billion weapons in the Middle East. As you can see, it is very strange that we are fighting a war against those whose weapons we have sold. Probably on this issue, just as on the other major financing channel (the oil channel), we should try to put in place a more effective policy, capable also of exposing all those ambiguity elements with which we have been confronted in recent months. Someone is emerging, at last; for example, it is emerging as there are gigantic elements of ambiguity on the part of a country that is also a NATO country (I am obviously speaking of Turkey). The fact that Turkey has been very sensitive in recent months in putting military initiatives against the Kurds on the table and much less sensitive in putting in place as many initiatives against the Daesh is a circumstance that today is seen in all its resounding sharpness, but that, within this Parliament (and not only within this Parliament, fortunately), someone is trying to say for a long time to this side. When we say that we are heading, as a country, of a work of international pressure to resume the dialogue and to put in place a path of peace between Turkey and the Kurds, for example by building a mechanism that removes the PKK from the list of terrorist organizations (because it is not tolerable that those who fight the Daesh on the ground, who are the most significant warfield against this organization, should even be considered from the West a terrorist organization), we obviously think that, if some elements of ambiguity are not resolved, we risk having a very fine discussion in itself and also that the success of a political initiative against Daesh is not there. This, of course, applies to Turkey exactly as it does to the many ambiguities that have been brought into play in recent years by the so-called Sunni Gulf monarchies, particularly Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. If I may say so with a joke, let us really avoid as much as possible state trips and interlocutions with these monarchies and interlocutions with them and instead call them to their responsibilities, because if today the Daesh is what it is and if it constitutes the main threat to the free world, probably this is also due and above all to the too many mistakes made in all these years. I am saying this in order to reiterate, as we have done in the past months, our vote against the decree-law on international missions and to say once again that we are putting into place a debate which is once again so structural. We need it, especially not to repeat the mistakes of the past, because it would obviously be dramatic, especially if we think that ISIS - or Daesh, which we want to say - is a very strong threat for everyone and that therefore we will have to look for the most effective ways to defeat it. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u162	Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to announce the support of the People's Area Group for the conversion into law of the decree-law on international missions. I will not go into the details of the measure itself, which has already been clearly expressed and explained by the rapporteurs during the debate on the general lines. It is clear that they have voted on so many decree-laws of this kind and I really hope that this is the last time we do so. When the framework law on missions ends its parliamentary path we will have the opportunity, once a year, to have a real discussion on international missions in an organic way and on the horizons and future prospects of our country's military policy. The centrality of the issue is evident to all, after the tragedy in France that put at the heart of the political debate the need for defence and an international strategy in contrast to the emergence of new forms of war and terrorism. In fact, international missions are not neutral. In recent years they have been the spy of a progressive deterioration of the situation. We started with Afghanistan many years ago, then Lebanon, missions to Africa and others. Today, unfortunately, we are faced with a threat that begins to exist even where there are no missions. It is recent news that terrorist organisations from the Philippines and Indonesia have also taken an oath and loyalty to the Islamic State. These are facts which are often neglected, Madam Minister, but which actually anticipate problems that need to be dealt with. I think we need a qualitative leap in our debate, because the threat is very serious. We cannot see it only when there is such a terrible fact as that experienced at this time. Nor can we overlook the turbulence that is taking place in Turkey, where internal dynamics and international issues are intertwining dangerously and could be a fertile ground for the spread of fundamentalism. Today, security is at the heart of the debate. We must try to develop a serious analysis, without foraging easy populisms fed by the fear of the moment. Security is certainly a value for all of us and for all of our citizens, and today it is even more so after the tragic events in Paris. Recently we have heard, inside and outside the institutional buildings, interventions of the type: "We call our soldiers because we need to defend ourselves within our country." However, there is no more anachronistic position or attitude than this. Historically neutral countries such as Japan, Sweden and Finland, where public opinion is still largely in favour of neutrality, have launched revisions of their systems (based on the fact that defending itself today can no longer mean being alone within the borders of their own country) or actively participate in international missions. Today, the need for security requires us to get out of our borders, also because war has taken on characteristics different from traditional ones. There is often talk of asymmetrical or hybrid warfare, civilian use and use is made of terrorism, guerrilla warfare, computer warfare and, above all, propaganda. In short, conflict methods and scenarios become global and this requires 360 degree prevention. We are voting today for a measure which is an investment in the security of our citizens, as shown by NATO itself, which in recent decades has developed capabilities for the stabilisation, prevention and management of post-conflicts, as well as the ability to hold up an efficient military machine. Obviously, this implies that we also have the courage to say no to easy demagogies and recognize the great professionalism and balance with which our Armed Forces are present in the various world scenarios, which are a value for Italy. Similarly, we must recognise the great professionalism of our police forces, law enforcement and intelligence services. With regard to the recent events, the rules adopted during the examination of the measure in the Chamber of Deputies, which strengthen intelligence activities through special defence forces abroad, when this is necessary for the purposes of national security or the protection of Italian citizens abroad. We have a responsibility to explain to our citizens that defence expenditure is investment and, at the same time, that military force or intervention without a strong identity is not sufficient to guarantee the security of a people. Islamic terrorism develops on a basis so strongly identity to the point of justifying, in its most fundamentalist and fanatical versions, the sacrifice of one's life. Faced with this strength of Islamic identity, Europe is called to a capacity of greater identity, not to be against dialogue with Islam, but because only a strong identity can dialogue with an equally strong identity. The sooner we can recover this identity, the less we need to lock ourselves up. Identity is not against dialogue but - indeed - is the only weapon in order to establish an equal dialogue. In order not to make the effort that our men make every day in international missions, the risk they take and also the economic resources that are being used, we must at the same time work to ensure that Europe recovers this identity through an approach that is deeply cultural. The role that Italy plays in the recovery of this identity is fundamental, without forgetting the appreciation that our soldiers receive abroad whenever they are engaged in international operations aimed at maintaining or stabilising peace processes. We cannot fail to support the hope of peace and a better future represented by the faces of our young people on mission. We must unitedly support their sacrifices and their spirit of service, putting aside oppositions and personalisms, because in their sacrifices the idea of peace of Italy in the world is manifested. For these reasons, on behalf of the People's Area Group (NCD-UDC), I reiterate the vote in favour of the conversion into law of the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u165	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, who follow us and listen to us from outside, I will try to describe a little better what the decree-law we are about to convert consists of. Consider that twenty missions are being refinanced. Well, of these twenty missions, no one knows what the objectives are in particular and whether they have been more or less achieved. You think that more than EUR 26 million will be allocated to a mission in the Balkans. Another mission in Bosnia has funding for €69,000; another in Albania and the Balkans is financed for €1,300,000; another mission in Kosovo, for €339,000; yet another mission in Kosovo, for €16,600. Then there is a mission to Cyprus. There are our Carabinieri in Cyprus, and you don't understand what they do; they have been there since 2004. There is the Active Endeavour offshore mission, which costs 4,213,000 euros, while EUNAVFOR MED costs another 33,486,000 euros. On some of these missions I will return later and we will try specifically to understand some of them critical. In Afghanistan, an additional €58,600,000 has been foreseen. We are then in the Middle East, Bahrain, Qatar for €5,982,000. We have been in Lebanon for over forty years, and for that mission there is a funding of EUR 42,800,000. Then there are other funding; for 583,000, 30,000, 50,000 and 17,000 euros. The contrast to Daesh, ISIS or terrorists - as you prefer - costs almost 65 million euros. Then there are the Atalanta mission is funded for 13,600,000 euros, a mission in Somalia for 7,500,000 euros and the mission in Mali for 821,000 euros. Gentlemen, the sum of the funds for these missions is EUR 340 million. Italy spends 340 million euros for just three months! You know our position, against all military missions. However, it would have been appropriate for both the Commissions and Parliament to immediately open a serious debate on these issues. All I can do is stigmatize and resume the attitude of almost all my colleagues, both within the Defence Commission and today in this House, because there has been no debate. If we do not discuss these issues in Parliament, where are we going to deal with them? Who decides? I ask, without any controversy, Minister Pinotti. Undersecretary Rossi told us that these missions are decided by Parliament, but colleagues here vote, and they do not see what they are voting for. Why do the Commission often share the views and then, in the final vote, are there absolutely opposite expressions? Let's get to the bottom of this. I take advantage of the presence of Minister Pinotti because, in one of his communications to the House and the Senate, she reported some figures that upset me. Everyone should pause for a moment to think about what Italy is doing. We were talking, Minister, about the mission to Afghanistan and you reported a terrifying fact: in just ten months, there were 65,000 dead soldiers in Afghanistan. Here I would like to wipe out this veil of hypocrisy, often present in these arguments and also in the speeches of my fellow Members. How is it possible that Italy has been present in Afghanistan for more than fourteen years, having spent about 13 billion euros, to train military and that even now we decide to send another 250 military (in the end there will be about 750)? So, we train the military to make war and these then die in disproportionate numbers. Imagine, in fact, 65,000 dead soldiers as many families and as many citizens as they have behind them. I wonder, then, how is it possible, if it is true that Italy, as stated in Article 11 of the Constitution, repudiates war, that we then go to train the military to make war and die for war. How is it possible for Italy to supply weapons to countries that are currently in war conflicts or use these weapons in violation of human rights? I am referring to Saudi Arabia, what is happening in Bahrain. We always continue on the subject of hypocrisy. How can 20 international missions be financed at this historic moment if it is not clear what the strategy of these missions is, if the objectives are not clear? Madam Minister, who often says that the international situation changes - and we share that it changes constantly, and that therefore there is the need to plug the holes going to one place rather than another - explains to me how it is possible that, compared to the 20 missions, there was no change of strategy on the part of Italy? Faced with needs that are different from those that were there at the beginning of 2015, do you want to explain why in three months we spend 340 million euros when in the first three months of 2015 for 25 missions, so with five more missions, we spent half? How is that possible, what is the strategy? You can't wait any longer. The framework law on international missions has been in the Commission for two months: I am no longer happy with it, I do not believe you, I do not trust you anymore! These are matters that need to be discussed immediately. I appeal to my esteemed colleagues, to Senators Pegorer and Alicata: make speeches that are absolutely acceptable on the subject, but your hypocrisy is no longer acceptable because if what you say has a minimum of consistency, your vote can only be against! You must do this for the Armed Forces and for the citizens, because it is not possible to waste public money for missions of which you do not know aims and objectives! You have not tabled any amendments: how is that possible? Are you okay with everything this way or not? If that is not the case, table the amendments, discuss them, vote, express your opinion, even negative. It is understandable that, as part of the majority, almost everything that the government passes through is good for you, but it is not acceptable, even for the role you play within this Parliament, within the Commissions. It is also mortifying for yourself, and it is impossible to explain to citizens outside. I read only one of the ideas that come to you, because to us of the Movement 5 Stars arrive and we make them present; but then he makes himself ears as a merchant. With the last decree-law of February 2015, with which a NATO mission called Baltic Air Policing was financed, what happened? Our soldiers were in those areas to carry out a fundamental task: to identify - think well - Russian aircraft that violated airspace. Well, 150 soldiers, from 1 January to 20 February, carried out their task in an impeccable way. So when you talk about respect for the Armed Forces, Minister, Minister, Minister, Minister, Minister, I speak to you! Mr Caleo (PD). He's listening! [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Pinotti, Minister for Defence. I'm here, I'm listening. [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u166	Quiet, please, there are no stadium choirs.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u167	Senator Santangelo, address the Assembly directly, as you know you have to do here. SANTANGELO (M5S). Yes, I'm sorry, ma'am. Madam President, I turn to you and, in the meantime, if you have the good sense of listening, to Mr Pinotti as well. These soldiers have not been paid because the mission appears to start on February 20. These people are also at risk from the criminal point of view because it is a mission that has been made outside national borders. So, that's the respect for the armed forces you're talking about? If the 5 Star Movement or a Senator of any other Group raises the question, the problem must be solved immediately. In the face of these facts, we ask forcefully, and even a little angry, so I apologize if the form I use is not accepted correctly by you... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] But it's unacceptable...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u168	The form must always apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u169	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, please, the only group that has interrupted is the Five Star Movement. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There will be an objective reason, Senator Santangelo. SANTANGELO (M5S). No, Madam President, this is not an objective situation. I do not want to argue with you. Maybe at the end of the work I can politely explain what the problem is. It is unacceptable that we are constantly being interrupted. [[Laughter from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u170	Senator Airola, Senator Santangelo is speaking. Please finish, Senator Santangelo.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u171	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I should like to end my speech, which I would like to make, like everyone else, in a free way. We strongly call for a debate to be opened on these issues because when we speak, precisely, of respect for the Armed Forces, first of all there must be workers, the citizens who work in those missions, there must be certainty of the missions we carry out, the objectives and the strategy that Italy wants to pursue must be clear. It is no coincidence that we had proposed an assigned affair, which I hope will be discussed in the Commission as soon as possible, in order to examine in particular the international missions, beginning to speak, Minister, also of alternative defence, an issue which must be taken seriously. When you, Minister, talk about the objectives achieved - and in this we agree and are also proud of the work done - you often talk about schooling, you talk about the inclusion of women in societies in countries where living conditions are truly unacceptable; these are objectives that we want to pursue and achieve more and more. We do not agree with the military operations, the sale of weapons and the hypocrisy of doing the search and going to identify the targets that are then targeted by American, French or other countries' bombs. Italy should take greater care of this and should pay more attention, especially in this historical period, to internal defence. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u174	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the conversion into law of the decree-law on international military missions because it also interprets this vote as a support to our military, to which we renew our solidarity and support, engaged, as we know, in a huge number of missions around the world, missions that make the Italian Armed Forces one of the most involved in the international context, often with decisive results. Having said that, during the debate in the Commission, in the Senate and in the House, we raised a number of concerns on which I will concentrate in the few minutes at my disposal, taking for granted an overall sharing of our initiatives which, from Lebanon, Afghanistan and elsewhere, are relevant, indeed, we note that we had been easy prophets when we said that in Afghanistan the forecasts of the United States regarding the cessation of the military mission were wrong and unfounded. In fact, President Obama had to admit in this case too that his guidelines and choices were wrong and without foundation and then had to propose a continuation of this mission that sees us involved and that it is obviously inevitable because, otherwise, Taliban and other groups would easily regain control of the territory in a few weeks. With regard to the doubts about the measure - which, I repeat, we shall still be voting on - there is one which I raised earlier and which I would like to reiterate by addressing to President Grasso, who in my opinion is responsible for a very serious mistake. In fact, you have declared the amendments of the Forza Italia Group concerning the composition of the Copasir unacceptable. This was a serious mistake provided that Article 7-a of the current Decree-Law has as its title: Intelligence provisions (using a term, I realize, adopted throughout the world but not even in the Italian language). Other colleagues, who have spoken before me, have specified how innovative the decree on our examination is by increasing, and the Minister here is well aware of this, the possibility of intervention by adding the aspect relating to intelligence. Now, to consider our amendments aimed at widening the composition of the Copasir as unacceptable because of the extraneous nature of the matter is a serious mistake that President Grasso, as a jurist, will be able to correct (or perhaps the days are challenging and has not paid adequate attention to it). I say this because already the question of the presence of all the Groups within the Copasir does not resolve politically. Already now, Madam Minister (and you must take charge of this, as a member of the Government and of the majority), - the powers of military missions have also increased. We are voting in favour, even if we cannot, as a parliamentary group - that beyond the consistency, greater or lesser, represents a piece of democracy of the country - request to stay in the Copasir, which would be a guarantee of relative transparency (in the sense that the transparency of the Services must be guaranteed with the confidentiality procedures in those areas). This issue is not resolved, despite several joint meetings of the Presidency Offices and Conferences of the House and Senate Leaders. In my opinion, there would be even the extremes for a decree-law, because there is the need and urgency to guarantee pluralism in that body, even if intervening with a decree-law in a matter of a parliamentary committee might seem bizarre. After that, we - see how the issue is connected, Madam Minister - said that the EUNAVFOR MED mission should now be re-evaluated. We have made amendments which have been rejected, but an agenda has also been accepted here in the Senate, and we consider that to be a good thing. Let us not change our vote on the conversion of this decree-law despite the perplexities on this point, but to understand whether the mission EUNAVFOR MED is successful or not is enough not only to listen to the optimistic statements of Minister Gentiloni: we will make the Conference on Libya, perhaps in Italy, in December; perhaps the third phase for that mission - which the Minister well knows - will be implemented, but presupposes a Government of national unity in Libya that asks for the intervention of the mission antipiracy in the Libyan waters and even in the Libyan ports. But we read in the newspapers that in Libya, in Sirte, the Islamic State has arrived, that we continue to call so much as Daesh. Now on all these things it is not that we can limit ourselves to reading the newspapers, which we have to do: it is information that probably can be drawn from those agencies of control of the Services. I have been Vice President in the past (and I don't have to go back to it anyway), so I know how things work in Parliament and its procedures. You can know situations that justify article 7-a of this decree, the continuation of that mission, the taking note that it is impossible. But we, who belong to a parliamentary group which is here representing the citizens, are excluded from it: this is a real shame. Then declaring the amendment impossible, which would probably have been rejected, is an incredible and unheard of thing. Despite this very serious violation that concerns not the Government but the Senate, we will vote the same in favour of the conversion into law of the decree-law because we are generous, but we remain perplexed, Madam Minister, on this mission. If there is no unblocking of the situation, the Cavour or other vessels must cease to carry on an improper mission. The rapporteur had the ingenuity to say that that mission saved 5,000 people by taking them to Italy, but that mission must not bring illegals or others to Italy, it must not do this; it must do other things in the first, second and third stages. I have already asked President Latorre in writing for the immediate hearing of the Italian commander of that international mission in the Senate to know what they are doing in detail. There is no Copasir here, there is still ordinary Parliament. The third phase we would all like to achieve, because it would mean that in Libya the skein has partly unraveled, but we read that it is coming al-Baghdadi and not Bernardino Leon, who, as I said before when she was not present, settled his affairs with 50,000 dollars a month in the United Arab Emirates. The UN has been evicted by this additional figure of its official, who has dishonored the mandate received by making it subject to personal prestige, who has gone to monetize elsewhere. You told us, as a government: "There's Bernardino, Bernardino is coming! Leon, Leon, Leon! Now there's a German and let's see if it's okay. But we must also do our part for Libya, and let the international conference which we hope will be successful come along. Madam Minister, EUNAVFOR MED will have to be re-evaluated in January. If this does not happen, the ship can return as well as then it can start again if the conditions mature; it is not that we are talking about missions from the other end of the world: they are few miles of navigation. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate that, since we are talking about international missions, we urge - as I believe Mr Vito did yesterday in the House to which you, Madam Minister, replied - the affair of our Maroons, which we must not forget: for years and years the affair has been open and there is another Christmas. I have read today that incredibly our Marò who is still in India, Girone, cannot even call into question the pollution that is present in India, and which is mentioned in the World Climate Conference, and cannot even do some exercises, since the Indian situation has also become a problem for the planet in terms of pollution. I remembered the story of the Copasir. As far as other matters are concerned, we expect further comparisons. The government says there's no war, but this morning U.S. Secretary of State Kerry said: We are at war against the Daesh and must act and be determined to defeat it. There is a war, but it must not be said because Renzi considers this word dangerous, and Minister Gentiloni wants us to say "Daesh" and not "Islamic State." We know that not all Islamics are terrorists or followers of al-Baghdadi, but those who are with him and who occupy pieces of territory of Syria and Iraq, alas, they declare themselves of Islamic faith, such as those who sow terror in our European cities, even though they are immigrants of second or third generation and therefore citizens of Belgium or France, there could be - God forbid - even Italians. I will conclude, with regard to Copasir, by denouncing that we are also concerned about the efficiency of our Security Services, which I want to denounce here. What do General Esposito and Ambassador Massolo tell us about the fact that this Salah, as we always read from newspapers having no other sources, arrived in Italy this summer, went to various Italian cities, went to Bari, took the ferry, made the ticket, went to Syria, returned and went back from Italy? Was he a stranger? Who was it? Are there adequate reports? Is there an adequate connection of intelligence services? We're afraid not. Now it is necessary to devote 150 million to cyber crime: well, that they use them well, because personally they are very dissatisfied with the action of our security services, more praised, in a rhetorical way, than found efficient. The Salah case demonstrates the very serious inefficiency of our Services and having no access to the Copasir I say so here, because I cannot say it elsewhere. There's a negativity mark and let's stop saying they're good, because that's not true. It was the ROS and the police and not intelligence services that discovered cells in Brescia or Merano, and it was people who were in Italy with refugee aid. Look at the very efficient secret services: there were jihadists who had the accommodation in Merano and the aid! But they go to work in the middle of traffic, these intelligence services gentlemen who haven't even managed to find people who'd gone as refugees and had the aid and the house! What are they doing with what they cost if they don't find that out? We want to ask a serious question. This question will be resolved, or we will also place in the classrooms these problems - as I am putting it - of efficiency and unnecessary cost of Services that do not guarantee the security of the country. But the plans to defend the Homeland and the security of the citizens that Forza Italia has illustrated we will talk on other occasions. Having made these observations, we will therefore vote in favour of the conversion of the decree-law, because we believe that overall the Italian military commitment in the world is essential to guarantee peace, freedom and democracy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u175	The Presidency recalls that the examination of eligibility or imponibility is unappellable. However, the Presidency, when taking decisions of its own competence, took account both of the legal nature of certain proposals and of the judgment given in the Chamber of Deputies. The decision therefore complies with the regulatory provisions and in line with the previous ones.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u176	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u178	Sangalli (PD). Madam President, in announcing our vote in favour of this draft law, I would like to make a preliminary consideration, because those who have followed our debate in recent days have heard tones and judgments, often even summing up, with regard to extremely complex situations and a premise, that of Minister Gentiloni, who seemed to me balanced, very rational and at the same time firm and from a country that raises the problem of international relations at a very difficult stage, which is the one that came after Paris. When we renew our support for our armed forces at this difficult stage, I would like us to make it felt to the women and men of our armed forces, our intelligence and security services all the support of the Italian Parliament without whether or not but, because at the moment they need to feel no doubt and feel an integral part of a country that does not make military policy the main voice of foreign policy but, at a time like today, considers it an indispensable part of its international relations policy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The framework in which the missions that we have to assess today are located has radically changed because of the repercussions of new phenomena - or phenomena that have in the meantime become entrenched - both on defence policies and on foreign policy, with which the countries are called to confront. The guiding principles of our international and defence policy, which we have been following for many years, correspond to Article 11 of the Constitution, to its first and second paragraphs. The second paragraph is that in which it is explicitly said, after the first in which we claim to repudiate war as a way of resolving conflicts, that we are called to intervene to prevent the emergence of conflicts or to defend those who are subjected to aggressions or measures that, through violence, impose terrifying living conditions on entire populations. We are engaged in theaters of war in which we count to tens of thousands of deaths that must be looked at with respect. The war in Syria now proposes hundreds of thousands of deaths and one of the greatest exodus in the history of humanity, but no easier are scenarios such as those of Lebanon, Iraq or Afghanistan, in which it is true that violence continues and that increasingly organised gangs of Islamic fundamentalism are formed, but it is true that without the organized presence of our armed forces there would not be towards the Daesh that first fundamental level of resistance that is resistance on the territories. In Syria, Kurdish militants, who are fighting a territorial defense war, are trained by our men, our Carabinieri and our Armed Forces and are achieving very concrete and positive results on the ground, which induce the Daesh to expand its attempt to impact international public opinion even on the media level in order to make the West fall into the dramatic trap of putting all the Islamics together in a single pile, calling them all fundamentalists, potential fundamentalists or potential terrorists. The game of the Daesh succeeds every time that nonsense of this kind is shot and a solemn distinction is not made between the Islamic peoples, who are suffering the violence of the Daesh (and who are the vast majority), and the Daesh who declared war on Islam and within Islam. It is an Islamic war that records the great majority of the dead and that tangentially also struck the West, but it is above all in the Islamic world, not only between Sunni and Shiites, but also between different Sunni confessions, that there is an extremely strong confrontation. We adhere to a system of international relations and institutions which is based, starting with the United Nations and the other organizations to which we belong, on an idea of international law and therefore on choices for the multilateral management of crises, aimed at giving stability, continuity and capacity to plan the action of the multinational community in favour of stability and peaceful development. International missions are an assumption of responsibility for our country, which has always been on the side of international law, in every mission, in every circumstance, without ever making a mistake with respect to international law, boasting a very long and coherent commitment in this area. In which direction? In favour of human rights, in the multilateral management of crises, in the strengthening of multinational organisations, so as to re-establish, after the fall of the blockades and the convulsive phase of great confusion of the post-block scenario, an idea of international bodies capable of evaluating, evaluating and intervening in the multiple crises that open up in the different theatres of tension. We must know - and our fellow citizens must know this - that if we want security in Italy and Europe we must produce security in the world. If we put ourselves in the condition that we think we can leave the world outside of us we have lost the train of reality: the world is already within us, it is in European cities, in our cities, in our factories, in our companies. The world has already entered; just as economies mix, people and ethnic groups mix. The world is within us and our security comes from the security that we are able to determine outside of us. Today it is up to us to encourage others, other democracies, including European democracies, to change course, regime and direction. I also think that when we face crises of this kind, bombings are an answer that denounces clear limits of perspective. Who's bombing? What populations are hitting at this time? What solidarity are stimulated by such interventions? It had to be asked when the intervention took place in Libya a few years ago and those who wanted it should have asked for it; it had to be asked for for many other signs. The act of responsibility must, first of all, govern the direction of foreign policies of all European countries. We need a European foreign policy, not a policy of outline, not a policy of states that are among themselves: Hollande with the English representative, Hollande with the German representative and then Europe which, in some way, has to deal with it. Europe is the reason why these states must be in the world and have an international policy. [[Applause from Senator Padua.]] There must be no reason for Europe, but Europe is the reason why we exist as a multinational power in the world scene. I realize that, in a phase of crisis of politics and its intelligence, it is difficult to affirm concepts like these, but the missions are an act of responsibility and allow Italy to see recognized a space of political action, which is a space for mediation, for the transition, for the affirmation of the right of statehood and also of fundamental concepts, such as those of freedom and the protection of human lives. The Armed Forces have become tools for international security and stability. With this in mind, we refinance the missions, which will certainly have to be financed in a somewhat more stable way. That is why, as Mr Pegorer has already done in his excellent speech, we call for a framework law on missions, which takes this action fully and gives policy the space it needs to make its own choices. In this way, there is the certainty of the country's intervention behind the choices that politics develops. Then there was Paris, which changed the psychology, the feeling, the attitude: it introduced fear, it showed vulnerability. We must know that this feeling, which sees us close to the French people, can be brought back to positive canons, focusing above all on the unity of our countries. We need the unity of our country when we face international issues. Please, let us not use international policy for reasons of internal policy, because every time foreign policy is domesticated for reasons of internal policy, dramatic problems are combined, including understanding of problems. [[Applause from the PD Group]] To defeat totalitarianism and Islamic fundamentalism, we need a great unity within and outside Europe and a great cultural alliance. We have done well to put this issue: I would like to point out that in the recent law of stability, the intervention for international cooperation has increased on the unanimous initiative of the Foreign Commission. You could say, "How? Do we increase intervention for international cooperation at a time when we feel so strongly threatened?". It is in these moments that, together with military action, there must be the cultural, civil and economic support that serves to build cross-cultural alliances between religions, peoples and countries. That is why it is necessary to strengthen cooperation, so that the tunnel of totalitarianism, which is a tunnel of denial of culture and affirmation of arbitration, does not take place, in which any despot can be proclaimed head of a State and can reduce the rights of its citizens to nothing. In fact, we never speak of those fellow citizens, but in the State of Daesh the first to be affected are its people and its women. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , subject to a law that is not established by anyone, except by a despot and the very mysterious interests it produces. In conclusion, Mr Gentiloni told us yesterday a couple of things that our Group and I share a great deal. The first is with what attitude to face the Libyan story, very close to us: Libya is in front of our territories, it is a country bordering Italy. We are dealing with it with the means and instruments that the European Union has made available, but we need to be more subjective on the Libyan issue politically: we need to do with Rome what Vienna represents for Syria. Finally, with reference to our military interventions in the territories of Daesh, Kurdistan, etc., I would like to stress that the increase in the number of soldiers in that area, proposed by this bill, will result in greater force on the ground against Daesh and fundamentalist Islamism. I must tell the truth: I do not always share with passion the proposals of military missions. This time, however, in front of these military missions we must stand as a country and live the pride of having saved people in the Mediterranean Sea, of having arrested several boatmen, of not letting children die and of having been a country that has demonstrated to the world a very high level of civilization. That is why we shall be voting in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u179	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u180	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u181	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, President Renzi has asked all of us for unity of intent, political action and joint responsibility. I greatly appreciated President Renzi's invitation and the immediate response to this from my Group. Today, however, I was shocked by behaviors that did not follow what Renzi said. When President Gasparri explained the ratio of the two amendments declared inadmissible, but that they were not, having been modified by the House by Article 7-a and introduced a direct responsibility of the safety committees, I would have expected the Government to share the ratio of those amendments and remedy them in another measure. And from the parent group of the relative majority party, President Zanda, I would have expected that in that perspective, in that work of union, as we did at the time of internal terrorism in our country, your group would temporarily give up a place in the Security Committee, waiting for the approval of the norm to ensure the participation of all in a joint assumption of responsibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u182	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u183	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u184	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I have asked for the floor to say, in dissent from my Group, that I agree with Senator Caliendo and I agree with his reflection. On this occasion, I would ask that the vote be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u185	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u186	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u188	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Madam President, on 1 December the World Day for the fight against AIDS was celebrated, which has almost passed into absolute silence, as if this tragic disease had already been eradicated. In recent years, public attention on the issue of AIDS has fallen considerably, despite new cases of infection in developed countries such as ours are stable. A strong awareness-raising and information campaign must therefore be re-launched. In 2014, the majority of new HIV infection diagnoses are attributable to sexual intercourse without condoms, which make up 84.1 percent of all reports. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u189	Excuse me, but since - among other things - it is facing, as always, an important topic, I would ask colleagues to lower their voices and not to scream from one place to another: you go out if you do not want to listen. Please, Senator Romani.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u190	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Thank you, Madam President. Of these, 43 percent are heterosexual and 40 percent are given from male to male. In 2014 27 percent of people diagnosed as HIV-positive are of foreign nationality: 4.7 new cases per 100,000 Italian residents and 19.2 new cases per 100,000 foreigners residents. Among foreigners, the largest proportion of cases are female heterosexuals (36 percent) while among Italians from male to male (49 percent). In 2014, 26.4 percent of people diagnosed with HIV had an HIV test for HIV-related symptoms, while 10 percent were HIV-positive in another disease. It is very interesting to note that since the beginning of the epidemic (1982) more than 67,000 cases of AIDS have been reported to date, of which about 43,000 have been reported as deceased. Between 2006 and 2014 the proportion of people arriving at the declared AIDS stage increased, ignoring their HIV-positiveness, from 20.5 percent to 71.5 percent. In the light of this, the Commission is also urged to involve basic doctors in contact with their young patients in order to provide them with all the necessary information, believing that prevention remains essential, whose tools are at the choice of people: abstaining from risk reports, regular use of condoms and so on. We Senators of the Italy component of the values of the Mixed Group believe that the path to be taken is that of primary prevention, through simple and effective actions. For this reason we have tabled a motion that commits the Government to go in the following directions: to promote within schools, starting from the last year of middle school, the culture and knowledge of sexually transmitted pathologies; to bring within schools professional figures to educate in good practices and prevention; to promote advertising progress for popular and informative purposes; to involve the basic doctors in making contact with their patients. For this reason, I thank those who have already signed the motion and call on all senators of any membership to sign it. [[Applause from the Mixed Idv and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u191	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u192	Does he intend to speak on the issue of AIDS? Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). No, I changed the subject. I intend to speak on a statement by the Vice-President of the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You know it has to be communicated. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). I've made this change communicate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in a public statement it was said: I am not surprised that Sicily can be considered out of the risk of ISIS infiltration due to the presence of the Mafia. The same statement goes on to state that not even terrorism had ever taken place in Sicily, as "What Ours also had a function of armed surveillance on the territory". "Also," the statement continues, "ISIS terrorism is so liquid that it has no possibility of predictability, even for those who so far have considered that they can guarantee indirectly and in parallel a sort of public and private order of the territory." On everything about mafia and terrorism, extreme caution must be exercised. I believe that these very serious statements are destabilising in the fight against the mob because they generate public opinion the conviction that security is guaranteed by criminal organisations and not by the State, which will remain unarmed and inert in this respect. These statements have also been harshly commented on by the public prosecutor Nino Di Matteo, who during a television broadcast reiterated the danger that the mafias operating in Calabria, Sicily and, in general, on the Italian territory want to place themselves in the eyes of the public as guarantors of tranquility in the territories they govern, adding that all this is very sad because it means that they look at the mafia as a counter-attack with respect to terrorism and the possibility of attacks. Those statements, in my opinion irresponsible, are even more serious because they are issued by a person with a specific institutional role and who, precisely for this task, should not even think of recognizing the Mafia's powers even above the State. In view of this, the Italy component of the values of the Mixed Group asks that he resign or be relieved of office. As Italy of values does not have representatives in the bicameral anti-mafia Commission, I make this statement in order to be taken into account and I ask it to come to the attention of those who have to do so, so that the anti-mafia Commission can express its views on the appropriateness and compatibility with the role of Vice-President of those who today hold it, Mr Claudio Fava, nomen.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u195	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I rise to ask as a matter of urgency for information to be provided in the presence of Minister Padoan regarding Decree-Law No 183 of 22 November 2015 (so-called decree-law saves banks). It is alarming that there are some 200,000 savers in the situation as a result of the provisions of this unholy decree-law, which will be absorbed by the bill of stability currently under discussion in the House of Deputies. Therefore, he'll come armored to the Senate. It is unacceptable that people should not know and explain what has happened to them. We have seen fraud, both figuratively and effectively, against small savers. This decree-law was issued on 22 November 2015, on Sunday. It would have been better if the Minister had respected the parties. We are faced with a decree-law in my opinion unconstitutional, because it does not respect Articles 47 and 117 of the Constitutional Charter, because in it the rights of small savers are violated, getting to zero the value of small shareholders, even in cases where the bank has assumed obligations against them, which have seen zero the savings of a lifetime. This is unacceptable and I consider it unconstitutional because, at the time, citizens, savers and small savers were not aware of the risk that the bank was facing. Because of a few, I find it unacceptable that many people pay! [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S groups and Senator Bignami]] About 200,000 small savers! This is unacceptable! We must intervene immediately, because it is the savings of a life and the sacrifices of families. I urgently request the presence of Minister Padoan in this House for information during the question time. I am asking you as early as next Thursday, and as a matter of urgency. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u196	While I was giving the floor to Senator Amidei, I had not heard Senator Bencini refer to the Vice President of the Anti-Mafia Commission. Senator, I remind you that on this point in this House we do not accept references that are so heavy that they are made in this way. Therefore, the Presidency disassociates itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u197	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u199	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, I agree with Senator Amidei, because the rescue of the four banks in crisis or, better said, in failure (Banca Marche, Banca Popolare dell'Etruria e del Lazio, Cassa di Risparmio di Ferrara e CariChieti) is a transaction whereby the value of the shares and subordinated bonds has been zeroed. Virtually, a volatilization of savings accumulated with the sacrifices of a lifetime to the detriment of thousands of savers. Tens of thousands of shareholders and bondholders will pay out of their pocket the rescue of four banks that had, and have, the habit of gambling. We are not talking about millionaires, but about ordinary savers: in the case of the Bank of Daddy Boschi, the shareholders are about 70,000! These people found each other day with the classic wax, the classic rag paper in their hands. On the part of savers, who have seen the values of shares and subordinated bonds reset, the sacrifice is very high. The fault is done with a suspicious timing, through a written decree of haste and fury at the last minute, a few weeks before the entry into force of the new European rules on the rescue of the banks, which provide the possibility to put their hands also on the money, in extreme cases, of those who have a simple bank account. In fact, the losses accumulated over time by these banks, assessed with prudent criteria, were absorbed at first hand by the most risky investment instruments: the shares and "subordinated obligations," the latter by their nature also exposed to the risk of the enterprise, as explained Bankitalia. At this point the question arises spontaneously: but the money of the savers used to partially offset the losses of the banks where they end up? It was, in essence, a pleasure for the investment funds, closing the game with a public guarantee from the resolution fund of about 400 million. In this case, it is State aid, but it is tolerated because the sale would be made to market values and would not violate competition. Bankitalia says the bailouts will be at no cost to taxpayers. False. And it is false for the simple fact that the mandatory contribution of the banks participating in the rescue makes the payments made deductible for IRES purposes. Given that these amount to 3.6 billion, and that the IRES rate is 27.5%, the State (and thus the taxpayer) renounces an IRES revenue of about one billion euros. This amount could also be added to the tax credits accrued from the application of the new rules on the DTA, due to the devaluation of bank suffering. I conclude, President, by pointing out a unique case of a country close to that of my colleague Blundo: a country that has 4,233 inhabitants, of which more than 1,000 had bought, saved and invested in the shares of the Bank Etruria, one of the four institutions saved by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers; decree that - as said - has condemned thousands of savers to the classic wax in hand: zero value shares and bonds. The 5 Star Movement, now the last and only bulwark of honesty for Italian citizens - even those who do not remove the ham before their eyes continuing to vote for you - will be at the side of all those who do not want to credit anyone, except their rights. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u200	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u202	CARDINALI (PD). Madam President, on 25 November, it is the international day against violence against women, and in Perugia, just that day, a young woman of forty-three was killed by her husband, a real estate agent, while the six-year-old was in the bathroom. The same husband then warned the Forces of Order, saying he did "a serious thing." The investigation is now under way. Again this time the scene is repeated; a wealthy family that once again leads us to abandon some stereotypes: that of degradation is not the place where violence is nested. It was a very wealthy family, and she, originally from Brindisi - I say this today because yesterday there was the funeral - had never denounced anything out of fear. At first nothing emerges; then, with the passing of days, the photographs that she sent come out, from which it is evident that she had been beaten on more than one occasion by her husband. Now, beyond what it will be, what I want to say today - and I am very pleased that you are here, particularly the Presidency, because I know your commitment to this issue forever - is that we must not and cannot talk about these issues only on 25 November, just the day you remember. We must do this every day and we must start not only from what is done in Parliament, which is certainly important (there is a good law on feminicide, which is obviously not enough); we cannot do this just because, as we say a little rhetorically, we must allocate resources - and that is right - but because we need joint action by all those involved in education at all levels. I am thinking, for example, of the theme of education to affection, with actions aimed in particular at males, men, children, then from childhood, in schools. I am thinking of initiatives such as the one organized in Perugia by a journalist from Corriere della Sera, when, speaking in a university room, he urged women to denounce, and a student got up denouncing in that place some violence suffered by the former boyfriend: what never happened before because of fear of the parents. Well, what we have to do is this kind of synergistic action. I applaud initiatives such as those of the President of my Region, who strongly wanted, with his proposal, the refinancing of anti-violence centers, because it is important that these structures have funding and resources, but it is equally important that, in addition to measures related to the penalty - we often intervene on this front downstream, when it is necessary to strike (and sometimes not enough) those who have done these acts, we encourage as much as possible the issue of prevention. I conclude with an article, which impressed me very much, written by a journalist, who on November 25, about the red shoes - which have become a little 'the symbol - said: I don't wear them today, I want to get them out from tomorrow, I want to wear them every day because I want to use them to meet those women, and to help them, who do not have the courage to denounce them. I read this passage because I believe it is the warning that must start from this Chamber as well: I will walk with my red shoes every day of the year and try to get to every corner of the world to explain that there are no laws that can protect us if we are not the first to have that love for ourselves that makes us react to the first slap, to the first humiliation. I will tell my humiliation and my slaps, I will discard my soul and face to show the women who think they have ended up in a street without exit, that the exit is there, that the wall they see in front of their eyes pulls down, one brick after another, one day after another. I'll be there, with my red shoes, next to any woman who raises her eyes beyond that wall and thinks, "Oh, my God, it's too high." I'm gonna look for a ladder for you. I'm gonna turn myself into a ladder if I have to. I'll give you a nice pair of sneakers, maybe just red, to run away, if this is the only possible solution. Because there is nothing wrong with escape when it means salvation. And I would add that there is nothing normal about the use of violence in any kind of interpersonal relationship. [[Applause from the Misto-Idv Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u203	He knows when to intervene in prevention instead and then I appreciate the fact that women are in themselves strong: we just have to support them in this force.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u204	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u206	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, on 3 December 1981 the World Day of Disability was established by the United Nations. The European Day of People with Disabilities was established on 3 December 1993. In Italy, today, not forty years ago, 70 percent of disabled parents manage without real family support. 75% of those entitled, i.e. persons with disabilities, do not work and 70% of those working (so the remaining) do not have regular contracts, but payrolls and tips for the most part. Without thinking about the questions I have never had an answer to (and here I am 100% certain). Who is responsible for Francesca's exclusion from the school trip? How many kids have been through this? I don't know. Who is responsible for the two years of school lost by Anna because school staff are not qualified and refuse to administer the antiepileptic drug to the child, forcing her to stay at home? How many guys are in this condition? I asked, but I don't know. How many hours of support are allocated in response to those requests? It's not us parents asking for it, it's the neuropsychiaters. And I don't know that either. These questions do not have a value ad personam, but serve to frame the phenomenon in a broader way: for example, to understand how many disabled children live in a condition of discomfort in Italian schools. There are videos of centres with disabled adults tied to the wall bars and fed with threats and force. What are we talking about? Naked children in rooms, abandoned to themselves. Is this inclusion? Forts use centers to divide money and leave disabled people at the mercy of themselves. Let us stop doing these days of hypocrisy in Italy, but let us ensure that every time we work, we do not work according to the mentality of assistantism, gain and revenue, but in the perspective of rehabilitation, physical and mental inclusion, with the recognition of individual skills, strong of the fact that none of us is equal to another and that from close up no one is really normal. Our Constitution, mother of all, in Article 3 requires us to remove the obstacles; remove them, do not pretend not to see them. In the law of stability you have rejected the proposals that provided essential funds for the Provinces, the metropolitan cities for educators and transport for high school children, who will be home from January. This is the real disability I see: yours! Your blindness not to see the problems; your deafness in not listening to your neighbor; the dumbness with which you answer the questions; the delay with which you solve the problems you yourself have created. This is what I would have liked to say this morning in Montecitorio, where during a very beautiful institutional ceremony the good school was exalted. Speaking from personal experience, I feel I contradict undersecretary Pharaoh, who today said that support teachers are heroes by choice. Just one example: my son's educator doesn't know how many degrees and masters, but he doesn't have any training or experience on the disabled. On Sunday, in Milan, a crying mother told me that she has a support teacher with fifty years of age, who has always taught English and has never done an hour of support; well, despite this, they have assigned her a case of mental retardation. These, then, are not heroes, dear my Pharaoh. These are heroes of work: don't support your placement! This is the reality of school support in Italy, not the one so exalted. Today is December 3rd and yesterday, not by chance, a tragic episode of violence took place in a disabled center in California. In addition to expressing condolences to the families and friends of the victims, I ask you to go beyond the hypocrisy that distinguishes you, to take your responsibilities and to help me to help the last. Because if you act like this, you don't do massacres like you did yesterday, but you kill slowly. Kill our children's dreams, the dignity of the last and hope for a better future. I remind Renzi that they vote not only for eighteen-year-olds, but also for the disabled, their families, parents and all those around them. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Fattori.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u207	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u209	CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to join with the assessments made by my colleagues Mrs Amidei and Mr Castaldi on the solution which the Government and the Bank of Italy, in close cooperation and in agreement, have found in order to resolve the crisis of four banks, namely the Bank of Marche, the Bank of Etruria, the Ferrara Savings Bank and the Chieti Savings Bank. The solution found does not convince us at all, because it provides for the zeroing of the value of shares and subordinated bonds. We believe that all responsibilities must be established before this is done. Firstly, those of the Director-General of the Banca delle Marche, who took office in 2004 and in eight years collected a total of EUR 17 million between salary and exit. We also ask that the responsibilities of the members of the Board of Directors, the Board of Auditors, the audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers, the Bank of Italy and CONSOB be verified, because when, two years ago, the capital was increased the situation of the bank was known to all and nobody spoke, with the consequence that savers threw there 180 million euros of personal savings. We are not convinced at all of the solution to the devaluation of the credits of 83%, so with respect to an original value of 8.5 billion euros the credits have become 1.5 billion, and we ask that the government come and discuss the subject here, in this House. The loophole of incorporating an amendment into the Stability Act is absolutely not good for us: the Government is here to report on the situation and to say what it intends to do to protect savers. We shall then see in Parliament who is on the side of savers and who is on the side of the scoundrels. The government needs to understand that the situation is falling. A few moments ago I received the news by e-mail - I received it here because our e-mail is clogged - that Veneto Banca has resolved to devalue its shares from 39.5 to 7.3 euros: again there is an 81 percent reduction in value and I believe that in this situation there are many other banks. We cannot slaughter savers from all over Italy, who are a resource of this country. I am referring to the capacity of Italians to save compared to other European citizens, our ability to set aside some resources for businesses, for children and their future. The government must not wait for Italy to catch fire, for the revolution to break out. There are 200,000 families who have interests linked to these banks and, if we go to see, it is a situation that has been dragging for years because the story of the Veneto Bank comes from the purchase of the savings bank of Fabriano and Cupramontana. We are following previous scams, those responsible for whom they are still at large. No one is responsible for the damage done to this country and for the scams to savers. I believe that this problem must be addressed: it is not just a problem of four banks that hold one percent of the savings: here there is a country that is exploding and we consider so little a problem like this, which is true that involves few people - 200,000, not 60 million Italians - but that concerns a general situation. We adopt a measure that serves to bring to light all the critical conditions that in this country concern the banks: the other European countries have saved their banks before the new Community legislation came out and only Italy will face this unarmed problem, because everything will fall on the shoulders of savers. [[Applause from Senators Amidei and Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u210	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u212	FUCKSIA (M5S). Madam President, I support and endorse all the words just made by Senator and Mr Ceroni. I would remind you that on 29 May 2014 a question was lodged which, as usual, did not have an answer and which asked to ascertain, with regard to the billion hole of the Bank of Marche, the responsibilities and the role of the supervisory bodies (CONSOB, Banca d'Italia and more). The posthumous awakening of Deputy Minister Morando follows not a sleep of the righteous, but a guilty sleep. In fact, the State has not only respected Article 47 of the Constitution - as has been mentioned - but also the Directive of 2004/39 of the European Community, the so-called MIFID, which provides for the protection of competitiveness, investors and the protection of fairness, binding the banks to information obligations. To these savers the banks lied knowing to lie, saying that the capital would still be preserved and that it was only a matter of change of interest. Subordinated bonds have been signed in which there is also formal vice, because the item "subordinate" is missing. There was, therefore, the complicity of foundations, leaders and politics, which he could and did not do despite solicitations. At this moment the saver and the Italian citizen feel abandoned and we do not protect the best Italy. We must not lead to the flight of neither entrepreneurs, nor citizens, nor small savers. We absolutely must do an exemplary act: these people in part must be compensated and the blame must be blamed on the ill-management, with the seizure of the assets of the management, the auditors and the inspectors of the Bank of Italy, which is state, to date, only for 5% (INPS) and, otherwise, it is of the big shareholders, who are the usual and we know them, Intesa Sanpaolo, Unicredit, Generali, Carige and others. We must therefore intervene. Come the Minister, answer the question made some time ago (probably it would not have come to this point); the prosecutor, meanwhile, has investigated, so the government also bears the fruit of that work. I also urge another bill, urgent more than ever, the Senate Act n. 906, at the first signature of Senator Vacciano, signed by the entire 5 Star Movement, in which the reform of the banking system is delegated to the Government through the separation of commercial banks from speculative ones. [[Applause from Senators Amidei and Ceroni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-548.ana.u213	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.59 p.m.
