ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u1	The sitting is open (4 p.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-01255 on the regularity of the appointment of two directors-general of the Ministry of Health. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u4	Madam President, Senator Fucksia, on a preliminary and general basis, I would like to remind you that, following the reorganisation of the Ministry of Health under the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 11 February 2014, No 59, in force since 23 April 2014, the organisation of the Ministry of Health is currently divided into a General Secretariat and 12 Directorates-General. Pursuant to article 19, paragraph 2, of the aforementioned decree n. 59 of 2014, the Minister of Health was obliged to proceed to the conferment of the 12 places relative to the general directions within the maximum period of six months from the entry into force of the reorder, therefore by 23 October 2014, also in consideration of the fact that the operation of the new structures was expressly conditioned by the same norm (specifically, from article 19, paragraph 2) to the conferment of this assignment. The Ministry has made known the new managerial positions of general level, also through their publication in the appropriate section of the institutional site, and a preliminary survey was started among the directors general of the Ministry, to collect their manifestations of interest. Following the preliminary recognition that also affected the senior management of the Ministry of Health temporarily in service in other administrations, the Minister formulated, with the consent of the managers concerned, a cumulative proposal for the conferral - from 15 September 2014 - of 10 positions of general management on 12 available posts, ensuring the maintenance of the assignment for all entitled persons, taking into account both Directive No 10 of 2007 of the Department of Civil Service, concerning the discipline of the procedure of entrusting, changing and withdrawing the positions of management of the management offices, and of the act of address, adopted by the Minister of Health protempore on 16 June 2010, which governed the criteria for the conferral of managerial positions at the Ministry of Health. It should be noted that, also taking into account the provisions of Law No 190 of 2012 and the three-year plan for the prevention of corruption, adopted by decree of the Minister of Health on 31 January 2014, the criterion of rotation of management personnel for 8 out of 10 positions has been applied. At the outcome of this first phase, two posts were therefore vacant, to be assigned also according to the ordinary procedures of questioning. In particular, the Directorate-General for Health Programming would have remained vacant since 5 August 2014, as the outgoing holder would have taken on a new post at Agenas from that date; while the Directorate-General for Health Prevention would have remained vacant since 15 September 2014, for the transfer of the former holder to the Directorate-General for Food and Nutrition. Consequently, on 24 July 2014, on the basis of the professional requirements identified in relation to the nature and characteristics of the objectives set, and to the complexity of the structures concerned, communicated to the general office of resources, the organisation and the budget, the interrogate procedures were initiated. Acquired the nominations for the two positions, coming from internal executives and other public administrations, the Minister of Health formulated, on August 8, 2014 and confirmed on August 29, 2014, the reasoned proposal to bestow on Dr. Raniero Guerra, technologist director of the Higher Institute of Health and Scientific Officer at the Italian Embassy in Washington, the position of director of the Directorate-General for Health Prevention, as considered - and I will also try to give you some elements of merit - the best candidate to hold this post. With regard to the general direction of health planning, not having noted among the nominations received the professionalism necessary to carry out the delicate function, the Minister, on 5 September 2014, formulated the reasoned proposal to confer the position of management to Dr. Renato Alberto Mario Botti, already subcommissary to health of the Lazio Region, who had manifested his willingness in this regard. The three-year assignments were completed by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 9 September 2014 and regularly registered by the Court of Auditors on 30 September 2014. Having said that, it is emphasized the correctness of the work of the Minister of Health and the administrative regularity of the procedures adopted. In particular, it should be pointed out that the questioning procedure is not a public competition. Legislative Decree No. 165 of 2001 and subsequent amendments (General rules on the organization of work in the hands of public administrations) provide for two separate procedures for access to the management of the first belt of the State. On the one hand, Article 19 (4) describes the procedure for conferring general management positions; on the other hand, Article 28-a regulates the competitive access to the position of manager of I band. The procedures in question concern the first of the two hypotheses: they do not constitute public competitions, subject to the relevant rules, but mere interrogate procedures. The exercise of the discretion of the Minister (the power to propose the appointment to the President of the Council of Ministers), being measures relating to general tasks, and therefore characterized by the close connection of the functions carried out with the political-administrative guidelines expressed by the summits of the state structure, cannot ignore also the so-called trusts related to the level of the function, especially in an organization now based on a general secretariat and Directorates-General, and not - as once, before this reform - on departments. The assignment of the assignments took place, in the manner referred to in article 19, paragraph 1-a, for which the administration makes recognizable, also through publication of a special notice on the institutional site, the number and type of the positions of function that become available in the organic endowment and the criteria of choice; acquires the availability of the managers concerned and the currency. In particular, the publicity of the procedure and the pre-determination of the criteria of choice which the administration intends to put on the basis of the procedure for the evaluation of candidates to cover the posts declared available must be ensured. In this respect, the procedure for conferring the duties in question has respected all the legal canons. As for the publicity of the acts of interrogate, they have been, as on all other occasions, transmitted to the central and peripheral offices of the Ministry of Health, sent by e-mail to all the managers of the second group of the Ministry in service, made available in the Company Intranet and, as provided for in article 19, paragraph 1-a, published in the appropriate section "transparent administration", present on the institutional site of the Ministry, whose structure meets both all the criteria indicated in legislative decree n. 33 of 2013, in the matter of transparency of the public administration, and to all the successive implementing directives, precisely in the part dedicated to the leadership, in which all the news about the available functional positions and the related periodically activated questions by the administration are usually published. In addition, the Ministry's internal regulations, adopted by the above-mentioned act of address of 16 June 2010, provide for a deadline for the acquisition of applications of at least 10 continuous days; this indication, in the present case, has also been respected, as the interested parties had eleven days available for this purpose (from 24 July to 4 August). The questions contained, as provided for in the legislation, an indication of the criteria for the selection of candidates, on the basis of requirements relating to the health policy objectives set by the governing body and all applications received have been evaluated in depth. In particular, with regard to the prior indication of very stringent requirements, it should be noted that the pre-determination of the criteria for the evaluation of applications is an element which the case-law of the Court of Auditors considers essential, since, otherwise, an explanation of the choice made ex post, i.e. on the chosen person, would be unlawful, since it would be contrary to compliance with the principle of good performance and the obligation of transparency of the action of the public authorities. Therefore, the administration is obliged to determine ex ante the criteria of choice which it intends to establish on the basis of the procedure for the evaluation of candidates for the coverage of the posts declared available. Given the current economic phase of the country and the need to ensure, on the one hand, the long-term sustainability of the health service and, on the other hand, the best use of the limited resources available, also in order to free part of them in favor of investment policies in health care for the recovery of the economy and employment, for the Directorate-General for Health Planning, an expert in the health sector with strong competence and professionalism of economic type and able to deepen an economic account or a balance sheet of an ASL or a Region and to dialogue at the technical table with the analogous leaders of the General Accounting of the State. Similarly, taking into account the evolution of the migratory phenomenon in our country and the health implications that this entails (one of all the situation of alert related to the Ebola virus), it appears in line with the current objectives of international prophylaxis to have identified, for the Directorate-General for Health Prevention, a doctor of international standing, with proven professional experience in national, European and international public health institutions, and in the management of health cooperation projects in developing countries and with specific competence and in-depth knowledge of the health aspects of migratory phenomena. With regard to the legitimacy of the recourse to professionalism outside the Ministry of Health, it should be specified, on the one hand, that this Ministry, after careful evaluation of the internal candidatures, has moved within the limits of the quotas provided by law for this type of assignments, using for Dr. Guerra, manager of other public administration, one of the two places available pursuant to article 19, paragraph 5-a, and for Dr. Botti, professionalism outside the public administration, the place available pursuant to article 19, paragraph 6. Paragraphs 5-a and 6 of Article 19 regulate exactly these two cases. The question therefore, in the cases under consideration, has basically assumed the function of prior verification of the availability of adequate internal resources (comma 6, for the custody of an entity outside the public administration), that is, of internal resources that can be assessed at the same professional level as the manager of other candidate administration. It should be noted that Dr. Guerra's application was acquired by the Ministry's computer systems on 30 July 2014 and, therefore, was known by several subjects before 1 August 2014, the date on which they would be filed by the journalist of the newspaper "Il Fatto Quotidiano," cited in the question, the names of the directors-general. From the economic point of view, it must be ensured that, on the one hand, the use of external professionalism does not lead to increased expenditure, since even if the task had been conferred on an internal manager, that manager, not registering for the management situations of supernumerary in the Ministry, should in turn have been replaced with other unit and therefore the total expenditure would not have changed. On the other hand, it should be remembered that Dr. Guerra and Dr. Botti come from positions for which a compensation is paid respectively by the Higher Institute of Health and the Lazio Region, therefore in any case borne by the Erario and that, indeed, the change of assignment consequent to the ministerial appointment has resulted in a reduction of the emoluments in question, which the interested parties have accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u7	FUCKSIA (M5S). Undersecretary, thank you very much for your sincere commitment and for your continued presence, both in the Health Commission and in this House. However, I cannot be satisfied for several reasons. Firstly, this answer is late, having spent more than a year and the Minister herself had responded with an open letter when it would have been preferable, questioned, to find an opportunity for direct response in the institutional fora. I would also like to point out that no one questions the high professional profile of Dr. Guerra and Dr. Botti, however, the perplexities are not resolved, even in the light of the fact that two people of such a high profile, once they have been appointed, have been left in a residual position with regard to the living of the problems in charge of the Ministry of Health. In fact, every decision seems to be headed not so much by the Directors General, but by the Head of Cabinet of the Minister, who has expressed himself several times, first by the condition of the Minister's pregnancy and then also on other occasions. I am referring, for example, to the regrettable episode of the decision of sanctions on doctors in the prescriptions, which the Minister herself has somehow corrected. It makes me a species that recalls the usefulness of these profiles, which were so specific, while in reality they were little used and that that figure that was to be third-party, a controller of acts, has become the decision-maker of the most binding acts. I expected that in the absence of the Minister it would be the Director-General or the Secretary-General who would respond, acting as the Minister, which was not the case. All things considered, therefore, the perplexities remain. Another contradiction is to try, on the one hand, to justify a profile and motivations by calling for transparency - but we cannot talk about transparency when we talk about ten days of publication in an internal mail, because we can also say that we are transparent, but if you are hidden, you are not very visible - and, on the other, to emphasize the trust role. If we put it on the level of trust, that is enough and goes on and at this point I say to you that, as Secretary of the Commission for Health and Health and as a Member of Parliament, the act of trust I am doing to you, hoping that certain tasks will be given to those who, besides adopting acts and other provisions, also have the propensity to listen that leads to concrete and sensible measures.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-02053, on the right to health of a child in the province of Latina. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u9	Madam President, it seems appropriate to point out in advance that the Ministry of Health was not, frankly, aware of the matter set out in the inspection document under consideration, so detailed information has been requested from the Latin Prefecture. The aids in question are the kit called DMO (dynamic movement orthoses) and a car seat. In the first case it is a solution composed of elastic orthesis to be applied, such as a garment or suit, on different body segments of subjects, usually minor suffering from developmental pathologies, with brain lesions or with specific musculoskeletal, postural, balance and movement problems. On the basis of some positive experiments carried out in the field of neuromotor rehabilitation and in order to prolong the positive effects found after the rehabilitation sessions, these kits were designed to facilitate an improvement of the postural structure, the ability and precision of the set movement and the correct postural alignment of the trunk, favoring the abduction and stabilization of the hips. Generally, the kit is worn at home during everyday life, so its action can be prolonged over time, resulting in an effective and well tolerated system by the assisted young people (usually, suffering from diplegae and ataxies) to improve its stability and balance. Unfortunately, this is a device that is currently not included in the tariff nomenclature referred to in Ministerial Decree No 332 of 1999, even if it has been included in the proposal to update the nomenclature and the essential levels of assistance currently being examined by the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Regions, for assessments of their respective competence. The Ministry's proposal to update also included this device. Moreover, for its supply is not applicable due to functional homogeneity, pursuant to article 1, paragraph 5, of the aforementioned ministerial decree, since this institute is referring to cases in which the medical prescription identifies a type or model of aid not described in the lists of the nomenclator, but functionally homogeneous to an included device and which, compared to this, is considered more effective and beneficial to the user. The aid attributable, however, must at least belong to the same category of aid included, according to the international classification and in the case in question this circumstance is not satisfied. In the second case, it is true that in the nomenclator is not specifically described a car seat, but vice versa there is the reduced and/or folding stroller that, in almost all models on the market for the use of disabled people, can be adapted - according to our assessments - to the needs described in the case in question (car transport), being able to release the seating system of the assistance from the base of transport with the wheels. The territorial prefecture-office of the Government of Latina has acquired the following data from ASL in Latina. With Resolution No. 7 of 13 January 2014, a thorough reorganization of prosthetic assistance was initiated by the local health company in Latina, according to principles of prescriptive appropriateness and homogeneity in the delivery and authorization processes. Among the various measures, a company technical table has been established with the mandate to deepen any issues related to the sector. For the case in question, the following formal and substantive aspects have been identified: because it is a neurological pathology, the prescription must be written only by specialists in neurology or in physiatry. Although the prescription has been signed at the bottom, ASL informs us that the stamp affixed by the doctor of the Polyclinic is A. Twins do not document the possession of a qualification. In this regard, ASL of Latina states that, from a view carried out on the FNOMCeO website, the doctor turns out to be a specialist in psychiatry; in the prescription there is not an organic individual rehabilitation project nor, let alone, a detailed program where the time of application of the method is well explained, the necessity of orthesis within a rehabilitation training in the home and/or outpatient environment, as well as a rehabilitation prognosis in the short, medium and long time. Since the elastic-dynamic Lycra suit is not included in the list of the tariff nomenclator referred to in the aforementioned Ministerial Decree n. 332 of 1999, the doctor has considered to use in his prescription to the institute of relativity, invoking the homogeneity functional to a bust in cloth and sticks and to a long series of rigid guardians for the upper and lower limbs. I apologize if I describe everything in punctuality, but these are the questions and so I have to proceed in this way. The amount of the estimate of expenditure was € 2.101,25, at the total expense of the ASL, without contribution from the assistant. Strong evidence of inappropriateness for this prescription, the Latina ASL rejected the application on December 17, 2013, after also consulting the specialists of the district evaluation unit prosthetic assistance district 2. However, for further analysis, the issue has been brought to the attention of the company's technical table for prosthetic assistance, in its first useful session. This collegiate body, on 4 April 2014, as a preliminary act, carried out a reconnaissance on the other business districts in order to verify the existence of any previous prescriptions and authorisations of such devices, which had actually already happened. After examining the documentation, it was found that all the prescriptions were always carried out by the same doctor of the Polyclinic A. Twins, all the garrisons - I mean literally - always came from Frosinone's own company and, with the same device, type of pathology and age of the patients, the estimates appeared even very different, differing also for several hundreds of euros, while there were no quotas charged to the assisted ones; all the prescriptions were carried out in a regime of traceability to individual rigid and static guardians, probably assembled, not detecting the functional homogeneity with a device that, on the contrary, has peculiar characteristics of elasticity and dynamism. The company's technical table examined the most scientific and substantive aspects of the issue: the requirements reached are not supported either by a comprehensive rehabilitation project or, even less, by a well-explained rehabilitation programme which, in view of the cost of the care and the growth of the subjects, defines the path and use of the care not only in the rehabilitation institution, but also at home, as well as the short, medium and long term rehabilitation prognosis; the appropriateness of the organization in question, and of other similar subjects, does not appear definitively acclaimed, because, by the revision of the scientific literature, some studies are still in the preliminary phase and concern the tolerance of patients to the treatment, and in no study is there any comparison with the traditional rehabilitation centres in question, and other similar, does not appear to be definitively acclaimed, because, by the revision of the scientific literature, some studies are still in the preliminary phase and concern the tolerance of patients to the care, and in no study is set out in comparison with the traditional rehabilitation centres, which can be conced to the most of small adaptations, and there is an absolute necessity for functions not supported by other principals; it is not understood by the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the actual costs of the cost of such as they are required in the equipment are in the patient's built on the patient's built by the patient's of the trial, i, i, i, i, i, i, i have been communicated to be told, i, i, i rather, i rather, i rather, i rather as to be told, i rather, i rather, i rather, i rather as to be told, i rather as to be required by the trial, i rather, i rather, i rather required by the trial, i rather, i rather, i rather, i rather, i rather, i rather, i rather, i rather, i rather, i rather, i rather, i rather, i rather, i rather, i rather, i rather, i rather, i rather, i rather, irather , i rather as to be used by the or I might be used by the or I might be used by the use of the use ofindustrial , irather , irather , irather , irather , irather , irather , irather , irather , irather , irather , irather , irather , irather , irather , irather ,i The technical table, not ascertaining any elements of replicability and appropriateness, has rejected, as a precaution, all the requests of concession, including that of the minor concerned, of the elastic-dynamic orthesis in lycra, still in an experimental field and of unproved clinical effectiveness. Last but not least, the Azienda Sanità di Latina has specified that it has provided the patient, from 12 March 2013 to 24 June 2015, with prostheses and aids for a total of 14.368 euros.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u12	VACCIANO (Mixed). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr De Filippo for his very articulate answer, which goes far beyond my specific powers on this subject. I note above all the last part, in which there is a suspicion that there are interests on the part of the companies that produce these busts, to introduce surreptitiously a form of authorization that then guarantees for future production. In all these beautiful answers, for which I am grateful, because technically they say a word of clarity on the matter, there is one element missing, called Aida, a three-year-old girl who, for one reason or another, because of a health company (which has been widely justified) or because of a company (which could play on it), but certainly not because of a desperate family, sees her constitutionally guaranteed rights damaged. At the beginning of your reply you announced - and I note this very positively - that this type of support will be included in the upcoming nomenclatures. But I have before me a three-year-old who may not have time for this insertion. And I believe that, in comparison not so much with Article 32 of the Constitution, but with Article 3 of the Constitution itself, if the State sees the possibility - and I have certainly looked at the child - to render through this support, or even through other media that have the same practical value as that provided to the child temporarily experimentally, the life of this child of three years closer to normal even for 1%, the State must bear it. First of all, to quickly approve the inclusion of this garrison in the nomenclator and above all to find a temporary solution that does not leave this child without experimental support. We can discuss whether this support is provided by a single company and we can try to check if there are equivalent possibilities; but what we absolutely can't do is wait, because for a three-year-old a day or a month more make a huge difference, there is no need for me to Tell you about it. I invite you to look into the eyes of this little girl, through the pictures that are quietly found where I found them, that I came across by chance in the story of little Aida, and to assess how the technicality of these answers can be compared to humanity and the need for a three-year-old girl.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u13	Following is the question 3-01316, on the identification procedures of a group of Syrian refugees landed in Crotone in October 2014. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I answer the question on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior. With the question on the agenda Senator Manconi draws the attention of the Minister of the Interior on the story of the landing of 127 migrants, occurred on October 10 last year in Marinella di Isola di Capo Rizzuto. I would point out that on that occasion the boat on which the migrants had embarked was sanding, so much so as to induce some of them to reach the beach by swimming. The aforementioned were immediately rescued, receiving the first medical assistance from the doctors of 118. For five of them the hospitality was necessary, while the others, all in good health, were transferred to the center of Isola di Capo Rizzuto for the subsequent reception operations, consisting, among other things, in a more in-depth medical examination, in an interview and in the identification. A multilingual flyer (written in Italian, English, French, Arabic, Farsi and Tigrino) has been delivered to all of them to bring to their knowledge the legal obligations related to identification through the acquisition of generalities and photosigning. Immediately after reading the leaflet, foreigners, evidently having the intention of leaving immediately the Italian territory to go to Northern Europe, began a hunger strike, in the belief that photosigning would lead to a probable restriction of their personal freedom. Subsequently, the same, reassured on the modalities and the real purposes of the photosignalazione, have voluntarily submitted to the related procedures, which have been carried out, without resorting to any form of violence, at the Cabinet of scientific police of the police station of Crotone on 11 and 12 October. I would also add that the collaborative settlement of migrants has facilitated a significant judicial police operation, conducted by the mobile team, in collaboration with the Finance Guard, concluded with the arrest of a Turkish citizen who is held responsible for the aggravated aiding crime of illegal immigration. These are the facts, to complement which I refer that the judicial authority, activated by an exposure of the Authority guarantor for the childhood and the adolescence of Calabria, has not recognized extremes of crime in the procedures of photosignalazione carried out at the police station of Crotone. With regard to the circular of 25 September last year, mentioned in the question, I inform you that with it the Department of Public Security has provided operational indications to the prefects and quaestors on some issues related to the management of the exceptional migratory flows in place, including precisely the identification and photo-reporting of migrants. As highlighted in the document of address, in accordance with the Italian legislation in force and in accordance with Article 8 of the Community Regulation No 2725 of 11 December 2000, the foreigner must always be subjected to phototyposcopic and signal relief in cases where he has been rescued on the high seas and carried out on national territory; he has been stopped by the competent control authorities in relation to the irregular crossing - by land, sea or air - of his own border from a third country; he has applied for asylum. The identification is conducive to repatriation if the foreigner is not entitled to stay in Italy. Where, however, he has applied for asylum, identification shall be used to verify whether he has previously applied for international protection in another Member State. For the purpose of achieving these objectives, the photosignaletic card of the migrant is inserted not only in the national database AFIS, but also in the database Eurodac, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned Community Regulation. For completeness, I inform you that the circular of the Department of Public Security also contains a series of indications related to the activities of health control of migrants, the need to carry out a careful evaluation of their personal situation through the interview, as well as the distribution to each of them of the leaflet informative to which I mentioned earlier. I conclude by making sure that the police forces pay the utmost attention to the identification in the immediacy of the landings in order to guarantee the full respect of the rights and dignity of the foreigner who enters our country. Moreover, this activity is carried out with the help of qualified cultural interpreters and mediators who promptly communicate to the staff of the police station the presence of unaccompanied minors or any conditions of vulnerability or, still, protection requirements represented by the immigrants themselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u17	Mr Manconi (PD). Madam President, Mr Secretary-General, I should like to make a preliminary general point, given that the answer to this question comes after more than 12 months of your submission. This is also made even more serious by the fact that the subject dealt with in this question concerned personal freedom and the very sensitive issue, which is crucial in the overall protection of rights, which is habeas corpus, to the point that the question had well indicated the notation of its urgent nature. This figure, which has already been mentioned in the first question put by Senator Fucksia, gives me a general reference. Over the past few weeks, thanks to the very efficient and intelligent contribution of the Senate services, I have been able to carry out a statistical survey of the inspection union and what is the answer, or rather the lack of response, to the activity carried out by the senators. Well, a statistical survey of this parliamentary term shows that only in 19% of questions and questions get answered and that the average response time is one hundred and twenty-seven days. This - extremely critical - fact is, in my opinion, even more problematic and worthy of deepening, since we have come from a period of debate on institutional reforms, and we are still at the centre of parliamentary activity on institutional reforms, which - it is virtually unanimous - nevertheless tends to shift the centre of gravity of legislative action more towards the Executive which, through decrees and delegations, assumes a prominent role compared to the traditional balancing of powers between executive and legislative. On this point, which I consider to be extremely important - also because the inspection union is a crucial activity for the public action of all Members of Parliament - I have presented to the Government an accurate documentation, to which I have received a first very accurate and detailed response from the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and for relations with Parliament, in which precise commitments are made and a series of initiatives are ensured aimed at improving the quality, and in particular the response times, by the Government, to the inspection activities of Members of Parliament. On this, I can do nothing but give confidence and credit to what has been communicated to me and in the next few days I will publish this documentation because I believe it is the interest of all Members, and in this specific case of the senators, to have full knowledge of it. When I come to the substance of the question I have put (and with me by 19 other senators), I am pleased with the answer I have received, but I would like to point out how the issue raised, beyond the episode that gave rise to the question, and that, precisely, it would have deserved a much faster and more diligent answer than the twelve months it has requested, is a general theme that periodically re-appears, because the issue of identification, in this case of asylum seekers, is a very sensitive issue. Many episodes have been, in fact, documented - without having a comprehensive response like that given today by the Undersecretary - of a use of force, therefore of the recourse to physical coercion, in the face of the resistance opposed by asylum seekers to the collection of fingerprints and the activity of photosignalation. As many people are now aware, thanks to the debate in recent months, this is primarily due to the binding and coercive aspect imposed by the so-called Dublin Regulation, through that constraint, which means that those who arrive in a European country, once identified, are forced to remain there. This is one of the essential procedures of the Dublin Regulation which we hope will be overcome, as many people have the sensitivity to demand. The Italian Government itself has repeatedly said that it intends to do so. I therefore believe that overcoming that mandatory and binding rule, which has caused so much suffering, is the main incentive for identification to be possible for free choice by the persons concerned and not for the use of coercive mechanisms. I am beginning to conclude, indicating a possible solution, with respect to conditions such as those described and to situations of extreme delicacy: we must bear in mind that these are often invasive procedures and that, however, have to do with the protection of the fundamental rights of the person, his integrity and therefore, as I said in the beginning, with the fundamental question of the habeas corpus. I believe that it is probably useful for the Department of Public Security and the Department of Civil Liberties and Immigration to provide for the presence, when identifying procedures, of a third party authority and therefore of persons with professional competence in legal assistance, in order to ensure that identification procedures are carried out in full compliance with the guarantees, which must be decidedly and unconditionally assured to all those who are subject to this identification procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u18	Senator Manconi, with regard to the Presidency, I believe that the question of the effectiveness and effectiveness of the exercise of the function of inspection union must be addressed in general, also through a confrontation and an understanding with the Government, because it is an essential instrument of parliamentary activity and of the relationship between Government and Parliament. The following is Question 3-02132 on the taxation of oil platforms at sea. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u19	Madam President, in view of what the interrogating senators asked for, after hearing the offices of the financial administration, the following is represented. It is appropriate, first, to address the question of the existence of the obligation of the declarations in the register by persons having real rights on the oil platforms installed in the territorial sea. With regard to the registration in the register of oil platforms installed in the territorial sea, the former Agency of the territory has expressed itself in the recent past with a circular letter of 1 December 2008, addressed to the regional directions and provincial offices, representing that, in the light of the regulations that regulate the current cadastral system, for these assets there is no obligation to declare in the cadastral. In particular, Article 1 of the Royal Decree-Law of 13 April 1939, No 652, converted, with amendments, by the Law of 11 August 1939, No 1249, according to which it is ordered... the execution by the State of the general assessment of buildings and other stable buildings not recorded in the rustic land register, as well as Article 6 of the single text of the laws on the new land register, approved by Royal Decree of 8 October 1931, No 1572, according to which the termination of the municipal territories will be done by the municipal administrations. The termination of the properties included in the individual municipalities will be carried out by the respective owners. From a technical point of view, the "termination" activity consists of the operation of inserting "cippi" into the ground which materializes an administrative boundary or a property and necessarily presupposes the existence of the soil to be referred to in the cadastral map. This activity does not include the territorial sea, for which it is competent the Hydrographic Institute of the Navy, which in law 2 February 1960, n. 68, is identified as one of the Cartographic Bodies of the State, like the Cadastral Administration. Therefore, in the opinion of the Revenue Agency-Area Territory, it must be considered that the oil platforms are not subject to inventory in the acts of the land register and therefore there is no obligation to declare them pursuant to Articles 20 and 28 of the aforementioned Decree-Law No 652 of 1939. With reference to what has been said by the interrogators regarding the stacking of "an industrial structure entirely realized in the Ionian Sea by Essola italiana SpA on the sea in front of the Municipality of Melilli (Syracuse)," the Agency of the revenues specifies that this structure is not realized in open sea, but consists of an equipped pier, connected to the mainland, for the docking of oil tankers. The arrangement of this structure, therefore, has taken place in line with the provisions of the abovementioned note of 1 December 2008 which, excluding - as mentioned above - the cadastral invention of the plants constituting the "oil platforms situated in the open sea" instead provides for the obligation of stacking of buildings "located in a natural extension of the lands emerged or connected to the mainland through an isthmus also artificial." The interpretative orientation expressed by the Revenue Agency was shared by certain tax committees but on the question, as evidenced by the interrogating senators, it must be recalled what the Supreme Court of Cassation established, that in judgment n. 13794 of 2005 recognized the ICI power of the Municipalities on works located in the territorial sea, considering irrelevant for the impositive purposes that the allocation is at sea territorial belonging to this territory of the Italian State. In particular, the courts of legality point out that: "over the entire territory of the State, including the territorial sea, coexist and exercise the powers of the State at the same time as the powers of the Regional Authority and the Local Authorities. It is therefore not conceivable that the powers of regional and local authorities do not coexist on a portion of the territory which is understood in the broad sense on which the sovereignty of the State is exercised. If, in fact, for absurdity, on part of this territory, covered by the territorial sea, the administrative powers of the Region and the Municipality were not exercised, it would result in the necessary consequence that, in the case of construction on stilts in the territorial sea, the municipalities would have no possibility to exercise the administrative functions their own. It is incontrovertible that in the same state territorial division also acts the Municipality, as an autonomous and autarchic public body, and that the whole territory of the Republic is divided into Municipalities, for which there can be no parts of the territory of the Italian State, and aggregates of living persons on the Italian State, who do not belong to a Municipality. On the basis of this qualification the Guardia di Finanza-nucleo of tax police of Ragusa, in conjunction with the naval operating sections of Siracusa and Pozzallo, has carried out an inspection against Edison SpA and ENI SpA for the verification of the correct application to the marine platform called VEGA of the ICI and IMU discipline relative to the annual ones from 2010 to 2013. As a result of the activity, the plant - consisting of the aforementioned VEGA platform, the floating unit (called LEONIS), the anchoring buoy, as well as the connecting pipes (SEA LINES) - has been qualified industrial building and, since it is permanently fixed to the seabed and with functional and redditional autonomy, as well as the buildings located on the mainland used for the same purposes. Consequently, the general command represents that violations related to the omitted stacking of the installation have been found as well as the failure to declare and pay, for the purposes of ICI (2010-2011) and IMU (2012-2013), of a total of 11,495,993.59 euros. The general command also pointed out that the minutes of the finding, drawn up at the outcome of the intervention, was deposited on 7 August 2015 at the Municipality of Scicli, in the province of Ragusa, which, to date, has not issued the relative notice of investigation. Finally, the Finance Guard reports that, to the state, this control represents the only inspection intervention carried out by the Body.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u22	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, I thank the Deputy Minister, but I cannot be satisfied with this answer because the intention of the question is very simple: we are in the presence of a clear discrepancy in the treatment of economic operators. Those who work in the sea for drilling and extraction do so because of course it earns a profit, even quite substantial, from the activities that it sets in place, and it is absolutely normal, banal and just that it is subject to taxation, as well as any other company in the Italian territory. As the Deputy Minister recalled, there has been a decisive position taken by the Supreme Court of Cassation, which has recognized the power of taxation of the municipalities, and we demand that Government and Ministry help, each with their own powers in the context of their own faculties, to ensure that the enforcement of these rights is carried out in a regular manner. This is simply a matter of trivial tax justice. As we can explain to our entrepreneurs, who are burdened by taxes of all kinds (as we know we have an extremely high tax system), that there are other business people who have substantial gains, obviously to some extent legitimate, but who are facilitated in two ways: firstly, the exemption, up to now, of ICI and IMU taxes and, secondly, the failure to pay for externalities, the famous environmental externalities that are also produced by these plants. Therefore, we strongly ask that Government and Ministry take action to help to support the municipalities in this work of tax exaction absolutely due. We will continue to go deeper and we will also check the situations of other oil platforms or similar plants located in the Italian sea. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u23	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-530.ana.u24	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 27 October, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.58 p.m.
