ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11:01 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 21 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 11.04).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1719, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators Pegorer and Susta, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Pegorer. [[Brusio.]] I invite you to lower the tones of your conversations to allow the work to begin.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Assembly is called upon to examine the bill, already approved by the House of Deputies, for the ratification and implementation of the Agreement, signed in January 2014, between Italy and the United States for the improvement of international tax discipline and for the application of the US law of the Foreign account tax compliance act (FATCA). The measures are part of an international economic environment marked by the need to step up the fight against international tax evasion and to ensure greater transparency at tax level, as is often hoped for in the main international fora. The FATCA legislation aims to counter the practice of using foreign investment instruments for tax evasion purposes. For this reason, foreign financial intermediaries are expected to identify and report to the tax authority their clients with tax residence in the two countries. A long negotiation confrontation that the United States has started with some European countries (France, Germany, Italy, United Kingdom and Spain) has allowed to prepare a model of bilateral agreement for the automatic exchange of information between financial administrations, to and from the United States, and to reduce the impact and the burdens for the financial institutions of the various States concerned deriving from the application of the US discipline for the tax control of offshore capital. This model has been used for the drafting of this Agreement, which consists of 10 articles and two annexes. The first annex regulates the identification and reporting obligations of Italian financial institutions for accounts held by US entities and for payments to non-participating financial institutions. The second annex describes, on the other hand, the Italian financial institutions which are not bound to such communications and exempt Italian products. The importance of the Agreement lies also in the fact that the FATCA model, structured on the reciprocal and automatic exchange of information between financial administrations, is destined to become an international standard, already made by the OECD. With regard to the Commission's profiles of interest, Articles 2 and 3 setting out the obligations, timing and arrangements for the exchange of information relating to the accounts to be reported are highlighted. As regards the tax treatment of accounts, Article 3 specifies that in Italy the amount and nature of payments made in relation to a US account can be determined in accordance with the principles of Italian tax legislation, while in the USA, for Italian accounts, reference can be made to US federal tax legislation. Article 4 regulates the application of the FATCA legislation to Italian financial institutions and lists the obligations of identification, communication and application of the withholding tax to access the benefits brought by the Agreement. The following Article 5 defines the procedures to be applied in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of the understanding. On the other hand, Article 6 aims at the commitment of the two States to increase the effectiveness of the exchange of information and fiscal transparency, under conditions of reciprocity. It is also noted that Article 7 recognizes to Italy any better treatment contained in an agreement of application of the FATCA legislation that the United States should in future sign with other countries. The bill of ratification consists of 12 articles. In addition to the order of execution, the financial invariance clause and the entry into force, there are additional provisions on the exchange of information arising not only from the agreement with the US, but also from additional commitments to be concluded by Italy with other States, as well as from the resulting technical arrangements. On all these aspects it will certainly and usefully relate the colleague of the Commission's finances. I would just like to point out that a wide-ranging and in-depth debate took place in the Commissions, which touched on the various aspects of the text and enabled, thanks also to the intervention of the representative of the Government, to clarify some points on which there were some uncertainties. I would also like to point out that some agendas presented by colleagues from the Mixed Group and the 5 Star Movement Group have been accepted by the Government. In particular, with the agenda at the first signing of Senator Molinari, the Government has accepted the commitment to assess the possibility of defining in a more stringent way the sanctioning regime provided for by the bill. With the agenda before Mr Vacciano's signature, the Government accepted the commitment to assess how to ensure that the principle of reciprocity in the automatic exchange of information was respected in a more stringent manner, which had also emerged during the debate in the Commissions meeting. The Government has also accepted two agendas at the first signature of my colleague Bottici, committing itself to foreseeing the possibility that the financial institutions indicated in the agreement dedicate to third parties the fulfilment of the obligations provided for in the agreement of acquisition, verification and communication of data and to provide that such third parties, suppliers of services, make such documentation available to the financial institutions of reference. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u6	I call the rapporteur, Senator Susta.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not have much to add to what has already been said by Senator Pegorer, who has well framed, in terms of international relations with the USA, the sense of this US-Italy agreement that we are called upon to ratify. As rapporteur for the 6th Commission, I cannot fail to highlight the importance of an agreement that strengthens cooperation between the US and Italy in the fight against tax evasion and for greater transparency in the exchange of fiscally sensitive data, through the creation of an information network based on the principle of reciprocity, in which information about taxpayers will travel very quickly, restricting the spaces of those who circumvent tax obligations in large countries like ours. The US-Italy agreement that is under examination of the Senate Assembly, after having been approved by the Chamber, is part of the recent agreements reached within the G20, which, with the Common reporting standard (CRS), has in fact incorporated the FATCA legislation (US law approved in 2010) and other instruments prepared in the OECD at a global level to pursue the unlawful possession of assets and capital abroad. With these agreements it becomes increasingly difficult to find safe areas of banking secrecy. In addition, the fight against international tax evasion and the lack of transparency in financial operations becomes part of the more general fight against organised crime. The Italian Presidency of the European Union has contributed to this positive international framework, which has accelerated the adoption of a model for the exchange of information between the countries of the Union, enshrined in the decisions taken at the Ecofin meeting of 14 October 2014, in which all European countries have undertaken to adapt their legislation by 31 December 2015 and to implement the new Directive on the exchange of information from 1 January 2016 (Austria will do so from 1 January 2017). In Berlin, moreover, 51 countries of the world have signed the agreement to start the exchange of information in 2017, while 35 countries will start it in 2018, and on 19 November 2014 Switzerland has also signed the Common reporting standard (CRS). In short, this ratification, albeit a little late, takes place at a time when, if we consider also voluntary disclosure, our country is in step with others in the fight against tax evasion and havens. In summary, Article 1 specifies the meaning of the terms used in the Agreement, Article 2 establishes which information should be communicated and exchanged in relation to bank accounts. The system provides for a regime in 2016, but the most important obligations for the United States have already entered into force in 2014. Article 3 establishes the timing and modalities of the exchange of information between the two countries and Article 4 regulates the application of the FACTA legislation to Italian financial institutions. Article 5 regulates the procedures to be applied in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of the Agreement by financial institutions. Article 6 aims at the commitment of the two States to increase the effectiveness of the exchange of information and tax transparency. Article 7 ensures to Italy - as already mentioned - every better treatment contained in an agreement of application of the FACTA legislation that the USA had in the future to sign with the other countries and article 8 regulates the possibility of consultation and modifications. Finally, there is the incorporation of two annexes: Annex 1 regulates the identification and reporting obligations of Italian financial institutions and differentiates between pre-existing accounts and new accounts, after 1 July 2014 and Annex 2 defines Italian financial institutions not required to report and exempt Italian financial products. It seems obvious to me to conclude by pointing out the importance that the Senate of the Republic - as already done by the Chamber of Deputies - ratifys this agreement, thanking the offices for the collaboration, the president Senator Marino and the colleagues of the 6th and 3rd Standing committee on contributions to the debate, as well as my colleague, Senator Pegorer, who shared this responsibility with me. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u8	I declare the general discussion open. Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the law of ratification of the international agreement which we are debating today raises many concerns and concerns. Not only for the purposes it aims to achieve, but for the serious effects that it could have in the Italian legal order. The history of this agreement, known in the US as Foreign account tax compliance act (FATCA), stems from the need to counter the flight of capital from the US and the consequent tax evasion. The Agreement, in fact, aims to identify the current accounts of American citizens residing abroad and introduces in fact the principle of the supremacy of US law over Italian law. It requires, inter alia, the Italian authorities, such as the Revenue Agency, to fulfil obligations for the communication and transmission of sensitive data of American citizens resident in Italy, if they are held of bank current accounts for an amount of more than $50,000. Now, beyond the doubts raised by many authoritative experts about the real effectiveness of FATCA legislation, what strikes is not only the economic impact that this agreement can have on our financial institutions, called for a data collection that will certainly cost, but even more serious are the legal consequences. The Italian authorities would act not only as intermediaries to those of the United States, but would be hierarchically subordinate to them. All this leads to a clear contrast with the constitutional dictation, which does not provide for a complete transfer of sovereignty of the Italian State, but only a restriction on equal conditions, which certainly does not occur at the time when the powers of administrative sanctions are conferred on the US courts, which are granted the privilege of imposing fines on the Italian authorities if they do not report in detail the sensitive data of US citizens, such as the name, address, tax code, the current account number with its balance. It comes to the point that, in the case of a custody account, the U.S. judicial authority may request the disclosure of the total gross amount of interest. Therefore, if the Italian authorities do not comply with the communications provided for certain facts which have occurred on the territory of the Republic, they will face the risk of being sanctioned by a foreign country. This is expressly provided for in the second paragraph of Article 5, which, using the expression "serious non-compliance", leaves a wide margin of discretion to the US authorities. This is a new, irreversible transfer of sovereignty. This is not only the most serious aspect because the FATCA even affects the interests of Italian investors, who receive their income from the United States, even if these investments are made in an Italian bank on the territory of the Republic. Again, the data of these citizens could be requested by the US authorities for their verification. In the light of this reality, it is clear that such an agreement opens the doors of sovereignty to foreign legislation, which fully enters our legal system and is above the Constitution and ordinary laws. A situation that closely recalls the recent events that led to the arrest in Switzerland of FIFA officials - I would like to remind you that it was a detention of foreign citizens who had no connection with the USA - on the basis of an investigation promoted by the FBI. We have even reached the point of asking, against all basic legal principles, for the extradition to the United States of persons accused of crimes committed in the European Union. Is it the law of the United States applicable in any European State? Is it possible to imagine that an Italian citizen can be called upon to respond to an American court for crimes, whether real or presumed, committed in Italy or in Europe? It is clear that, in this way, our transformation from a sovereign state to an American protectorate is enshrined in law as well as in fact. We are starting, in essence, to become a simple territorial area called to implement Washington's directives and to conform to its interests. Before being accused of anti-Americanism, I recall that the agreement in question was strongly opposed in the United States itself, even by some authoritative representatives of Congress. I quote a few passages from the letter that Bill Posey, a member of the House of Representatives for the State of Florida, wrote to the Secretary of the Treasury, Jack Lew, regarding the approval of the FATCA: I am concerned about the adoption of rules that require US banks to collect sensitive data from foreign citizens and that will not bring a dollar into the treasury, but on the contrary will have the opposite effect, that of discouraging investment in the United States. It is quite clear that the FATCA should be amended or rejected, and replaced by a cooperative agreement that hinders tax evasion, without involving outsiders or innocents. In conclusion, this agreement is nothing more than a further step towards global surveillance. A modern panopticon, the prison designed by the philosopher Jeremy Bentham to allow the overseer to control at once all the prisoners of the facility. As much as I try, in all of this I cannot find anything to do with the principles of the Constitutional Charter, which should be the foundation of our free, democratic and labour-based Republic.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u10	I address the greetings of the entire Assembly to the students, pupils and teachers of the State Art School "Via di Ripetta" in Rome, who follow our work. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, the ratification of the Agreement under consideration aims to develop the exchange of information between Italy and the United States for tax purposes and to provide financial intermediaries with a comprehensive regulatory framework on the obligations to be fulfilled by them. The mechanism contained in the Agreement derives from the FATCA (Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act) introduced by the United States Congress on 18 March 2010 in order to provide appropriate tools in anti-delusive function. The aim is to target those of US origin who use foreign intermediaries to conceal their income from the U.S. tax system. The United States has therefore drawn up a law addressed to foreign financial institutions which manage their accounts or reports either directly or indirectly. In February 2012, Italy, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Spain and the United States, with the common objective of stepping up the fight against international tax evasion and adopting an intergovernmental approach to the application of FATCA, defined an intergovernmental agreement model in order to exchange on an automatic basis a series of information that financial institutions will provide to their respective tax authorities. This initiative, aimed at making the financial wealth held abroad transparent and traceable in order to reduce tax evasion resulting from international capital movements, has triggered a virtuous process, intended to extend very quickly. This is evident from the fact that the FATCA has been a source of inspiration, within the OECD, for the development of a common system for the collection by financial intermediaries and the automatic exchange of all relevant information for tax purposes. From this point of view, the FATCA model is also intended to serve as a lintel of the new rules that will in fact extend, from July 2015, the obligation to identify and report all customers with a foreign tax residence, to their respective competent authorities. It is therefore clear that progress is being made on transparency and international cooperation between States, adding to the changed attitude of all major financial institutions traditionally inclined to maintain banking secrecy. One example is Switzerland with which Italy recently concluded an agreement that ended banking secrecy. In conclusion, the merit of this agreement is that it has transformed a unilateral act belonging to American legislation, imposed on States, into a bilateral act of international rank based on the principle of reciprocity which is carried out in an exchange of information not only from Italy to the United States, but also from the United States to Italy. The FATCA, despite the lack of national legislation on the matter, has been made operational in our country since 1 July 2014, and therefore today we cannot miss the opportunity to follow up the approval of the ratification order in order to equip our internal system with an appropriate tool to fight international tax evasion. As the Forza Italia Group, I can only appreciate the content of the agreement and therefore hope that it will be quickly approved. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u12	The general debate is closed. Since we are awaiting the opinion of the Budget Committee, I shall refer the continuation of the examination of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u13	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 1801, already approved by the House of Deputies. The working rapporteur, Senator Compagna, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to examine the draft law ratifying the Agreement between Italy and the Government of the Cayman Islands on the exchange of information in tax matters. It is recalled that the Cayman archipelago consists of three small islands located in the Caribbean Sea, south of Cuba, and inhabited by almost 60,000 people. The Agreement follows the model drawn up by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and is in line with the guidelines shared by Italy in various multilateral forums to combat the phenomenon of international tax evasion. It is a model adopted for similar agreements recently ratified with the Governments of Jersey Island, Cook Islands, Man Island and Gibraltar. The purpose of the agreement is therefore to facilitate cooperation between the tax administrations of the two parties through an exchange of information necessary to ensure adequate levels of transparency. The Agreement consists of 13 articles, the first of which define the object and scope of the understanding and the jurisdictional areas. The taxes subject to the possible exchange of information are taxes on income, productive activities, VAT and inheritance taxes. The Agreement also regulates the arrangements for the exchange of information, regulating in detail the types of information that may be required, including the overcoming of banking secrecy, in accordance with the priority objective of combating evasion and the OECD standards in this area. The Agreement also provides for an obligation for the parties to adopt internal legislative amendments necessary to implement the understanding. No financial charges are foreseen in any rule. The ratification of this Agreement would therefore, in the Commission's view, represent a significant step forward against tax evasion and avoidance in tax havens, thus allowing the Cayman Islands to be included between those States and those territories with a tax regime that complies with the standards of legality and transparency adopted by the European Union. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u15	As you are not registered to speak in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene, we proceed to the examination of the articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u18	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u19	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u22	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, in the vote on this ratification, the Group of the North Legacy will abstain. I want to clarify the matter. We know that in so-called tax havens, such as Caymans and Barbados, between 21 and 32 billion dollars are deposited within banks and large financial corporations: a hyperbolic figure, comparable to the GDP of a large country. The disconcerting thing is that, in this calculation, the works of art are not counted and added up (and are also held many, very important), jewels, precious metals, even racehorses and mega yachts that precisely fly the flag of Cayman or other tax satellites. If we go to verify who owns this immense heritage, always on the basis of data provided in a serious way by international institutes, we realize that it is about 91,000 ultra billionaires. This means that it is 0.001 percent of the global population, and we all know that, but it is good to stress that. This Agreement certainly represents a step forward towards greater transparency and greater collaboration between our country and, in this case, the Cayman Islands. There is, however, an article, which is the cause of our abstention, which provides for the possibility of rejecting a specific request. I must admit that it is quite full-bodied, well written and certainly by important, qualified and capable international financial advisors. When Article 7 tells us that the provisions of this Agreement do not impose on a contracting country the obligation to provide information when such information may be of commercial, industrial, professional secrecy or the same commercial process, you well understand then that international consultants, very prepared from this point of view, would (or will) go to wedding in addressing an international procedure for requesting information on that road. Therefore, it is certainly a good thing to ratify this Agreement between our country and the Cayman Islands on the exchange of information in tax matters, but we consider it a little watered down, and that is the reason for our abstention. We could certainly vote against it because, if we read it even more punctually, we realize that it is really weak. But in any case, we appreciate the effort made. The hope is that such agreements will be more and more effective and fiscally sound, and we hope that in the near future we will be able to achieve a more solid agreement that does not leave us perplexed. For these reasons, our vote will be one abstention. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u25	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am speaking only to announce that the People's Area Group is voting in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u28	MARAN (PD). Mr President, I declare the Group's vote in favour of the measure precisely because the Agreement under consideration follows the model drawn up by the OECD in the framework of the initiatives for fiscal transparency and appears to be in line with the guidelines shared by Italy, in the various multilateral fora, for strengthening the instruments to combat the phenomenon of international tax evasion. It is no coincidence that the Foreign Affairs Committee has already, during this parliamentary term, examined similar agreements with the Governments of Jersey, the Cook Islands, the Isle of Man, Gibraltar and so on. The purpose of this bilateral agreement is to facilitate cooperation between the tax administrations of the two parties through an exchange of tax information necessary to ensure that adequate levels of transparency are achieved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u31	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u32	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u33	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 1803, already approved by the House of Deputies. The working rapporteur, Senator Compagna, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u34	, f.f. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to express ourselves on a bill of ratification and enforcement of a 2013 Agreement and its Protocol, between Italy and the China Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong, aimed at avoiding double taxation and preventing tax evasion. The text reproduces the model of other international agreements of similar content, recently concluded. Among its effects is to help our companies operate in Hong Kong under competitive conditions compared to economic operators in other countries, regulating in more balanced terms the tax aspects related to trade relations. The agreement applies to natural and legal persons resident in one or both of the Contracting States and concerns taxes on the income of natural persons, companies and productive activities. The taxation of real estate income is envisaged in favour of the country in which the real estate is located. Business profits, on the other hand, are taxable exclusively in the country in which the company is established, with the exception of those produced through a permanent establishment. With regard to the mechanisms to avoid double taxation, the Agreement provides, for the Italian party, for the use of the ordinary method of imputation, which limits the amount of credit relating to foreign tax to the Italian tax quota attributable to the income elements taxable in Hong Kong. In the fight against tax evasion, the provisions on the exchange of information, which strengthen administrative cooperation, inter alia, make it possible to overcome the barriers to banking secrecy, are particularly important. The charges are quantified in approximately three million euros per year, starting in 2015, due to revenue losses in the taxation of dividends and capital gains. The entry into force of the Agreement will, however, contribute to the achievement of higher levels of transparency, the emergence of a tax base and the reduction of fraudulent behaviour. For these reasons, it is suggested by our Commission to the House that the measure be approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u35	As you are not registered to speak in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene, we proceed to the examination of the articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u38	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u39	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u42	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of the Agreement with the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. However, in this case too, we should stress the weakness of Articles 7, 9 and 10, i.e. those which take into account the profits of companies, the same associated undertakings and dividends. Without technically going into the matter, we would like to point out that we stressed these weaknesses very strongly when, in this very House, we approved the important agreement for the Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP), in which the behaviour of the various companies and the various profits was also defined. On that occasion we had found great weaknesses in the matter of impres and off-shore or of companies themselves belonging to holding companies or multinationals and based in certain countries (in that case, it was a Swiss canton), which created serious difficulties with regard to the taxation of profits of companies and dividends. We will vote in favour, but we would like to stress that these agreements, although they are all too often useful from that point of view, are too weak. And I believe that serious action by the Government must be directed much more precisely, in order to ensure that these international finance mechanisms do not always find a trap in which to avoid or escape payment of profits and dividends and, consequently, also of what is due to the various countries in the matter of contributions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u45	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am speaking only to announce the support of the People's Area Group (NCD-UDC) for this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u48	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Agreement under consideration is in favour of the Five Star Movement Group. This Agreement between Italy and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China will prevent double taxation of income taxes and prevent tax evasion. The initialling of the Protocol is quite recent (raised in fact to 2013) and the act is inserted in the general context of widening the network of conventions in order to avoid the double impositions stipulated from Italy, proposing itself as legal framework of indispensable reference to the Italian enterprises in order to operate in the Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong under conditions fully competitive regarding the economic operators of other Countries with advanced economy. What is represented and contained in the Agreement in title is objectively the fundamental aspect of the Agreement itself. The 5 Star Movement Group will therefore vote in favour of it, in order to find a solution to the problems faced every day by Italian traders operating with Hong Kong. Thanks to it, in fact, administrative cooperation between Italy and the Hong Kong Regional Government, on the exchange of information - in order to avoid double taxation, but above all in the fight against tax evasion - will certainly be intensified in accordance with the OECD standards in this area. For these reasons, Mr President, I declare the 5 Star Movement Group's vote in favour of bill No 1803. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u51	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà Group XVII Legislature. It is important to facilitate companies, businesses and companies that have relations with Honk Kong, a very important region that is going through, and has gone through in recent years, a very difficult phase, given its passage under the People's Republic of China which, undoubtedly, has compressed the freedoms it enjoyed in the past. It must also be said that there is a possibility that elections will be held in this region: it is undoubtedly more an embryo of elections than of real elections, but this is always a positive step that perhaps, in the long run, will infect the entire Chinese giant. Therefore, even in view of this, it is appropriate to vote quickly and to make a particularly positive assessment of the fact that ratification in Parliament is being achieved relatively quickly, compared with the average times during which these procedures are usually carried out. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u54	MARAN (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I declare the PD Group's vote in favour of this measure, which incorporates the model of other international agreements of the same content and aims to help Italian companies operate in Hong Kong under competitive conditions compared to economic operators in other countries, regulating in a more balanced way the fiscal aspects relating to economic relations between the two areas. I note - as we pointed out during the examination in the Commission - that the economic relations between Italy and Hong Kong are constantly growing, also because the Chinese area represents for many Italian companies a commercial support point for all that reality. Therefore, the text consistently streamlines the double taxation system by allowing the emergence of possible forms of tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u57	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u58	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u59	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1599. Senator De Pietro, acting as rapporteur, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this House is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying and implementing the Agreement on Scientific and Technological Cooperation signed by Italy and Chile in 2007. The text aims to promote and support joint initiatives between the two countries in the field of science and technology, strengthening links between universities and research centres, ensuring intellectual protection and promoting joint research projects on topics of mutual interest. The Agreement lays down the scope of cooperation in the field of basic sciences and sciences applied to technological development (Article 2); it lays down the operational arrangements for cooperation (Article 3); it provides for the establishment of a Joint Committee for the implementation of the Understanding (Article 4) and regulates the clause on intellectual property in the context of the projects carried out (Article 6). The draft ratification law consists of four articles providing for approval of ratification, order of execution, financial cover and entry into force. The charges for scientific missions are estimated at around 39,000 euros for 2015 and around 45,000 euros from 2016, mainly for mission expenses. The remaining costs for implementing the cooperation arrangements are estimated at around €180,000 per year. The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, Community law or other international obligations entered into by our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u61	As you are not included in the general discussion, and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles in the text proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u64	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u67	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, I speak quickly and quickly. As a Parliament, we are called upon to ratify and implement the Cooperation Agreement between Chile and Italy on scientific and technological issues. The report by the working rapporteur, which is very narrow, says a lot about the fact that it is clearly necessary for the two countries to continue to cooperate. In the four articles, also these very short ones, are well specified, also from the economic point of view, the issues that concern this measure, which I believe goes in the sense of strengthening the links between the two countries in the phase of joint projects and of mutual interest. As far as the issue of brain drain is concerned - which we are sometimes talking about, and even to the contrary - I believe that agreements of this kind can find a common interest in maintaining exalted minds on our territory. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u70	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this measure by our Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u73	MARAN (PD). Mr President, I declare the Group's vote in favour of this draft law. The Agreement aims to promote scientific and technological cooperation with one of the most interesting countries for economic operators, also linked to Italy by a long history of immigration. The measure will allow the overcoming of a previous agreement of 1991 which, in this case, aims to promote and support joint initiatives between the two countries in the field of science and technology, strengthening the links between universities and research centres, ensuring intellectual protection and also aiming at the realization of joint projects on issues of mutual interest through the exchange of teachers, experts and researchers. Therefore, I confirm our vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u76	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u77	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u78	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1600. The working rapporteur, Senator De Pietro, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion of the two Agreements stems from the desire to improve judicial cooperation with Panama, with which Italy is intensifying its economic relations, in the context of the more general strengthening of the fight against international crime. The Treaty on Legal Assistance, which consists of 26 articles, lays down the mutual obligation of cooperation in criminal matters. Article 1 includes, inter alia, the notification of documents, the recruitment and transmission of testimonies, the search and identification of persons. The Treaty also provides (Article 2) for the temperament of the principle of double indictment, allowing legal assistance to be provided even if the fact is not a criminal offence in the other Member State. The Treaty also defines cases in which legal assistance may be refused or postponed, including where there are grounds for believing that the request for assistance has persecutory purposes for reasons of race, religion or political opinion. Other forecasts include Article 18, which does not include banking secrecy as grounds for refusing assistance. The second, closely linked Treaty, aims to strengthen cooperation in extradition procedures. In accordance with Article 2, extradition shall be granted, in accordance with the principle of double indictment, for the offences provided for by both laws and punishable by penalties of at least one year or where the penalty still to be served is not less than six months. The Treaty also regulates cases where either party must or may refuse extradition, including, among others, cases of political crimes (excluding those for terrorism) and where there is a legitimate reason for possible discrimination. Extradition may also be refused if it is not compatible with the age, health or other conditions of the requested person. The text also provides for the possibility of provisional arrests in cases of urgency and requests for extraditions made by several States, and provides for a simplified procedure if there is the consent of the requested person (Article 16). The charges are estimated at around 23,000 euros per year for the Legal Assistance Treaty and around 32,000 euros for the Extradition Treaty.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u80	As you are not included in the general discussion, and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles in the text proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u83	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u86	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, this is the relationship with a state on which we have all our attention, with regard to existing economic interests and relations. In her report, the rapporteur explained the content of the 26 articles, which are discreetly complex in their management in terms of the legal issue, but give the idea of the importance of the Treaty. As far as we are concerned, we will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u89	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this measure by our Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u92	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of the measure, as has been done in the past in cases like this, and I quote just a few of the previous examples: Act No. 1053 (ratification of an Agreement with the USA), Act No. 1143 (ratification of an Agreement with Niger), Act No. 1166 (ratification of an Agreement with San Marino), Act No. 1329 (ratification of an Agreement with Mexico), and many others in this legislature. The Movement will not hesitate to support the ratification of acts aimed at effectively prosecuting - at least hopefully - the prevention and persecution of crimes also on an international basis. I will not dwell on the substance of the measure, which the rapporteur explained at the beginning of the discussion. However, I would like to take a closer look at the Contracting State of the Pact Agreement itself, Panama, which is the State that perhaps, most of all in recent years, has catalysed and raised dirty money from all over the world. By strengthening the diplomatic relations woven by the Government of that country, which often met our country, without jeopardising the presence of businessmen then revealed criminals (any reference to the Lavitola case is obviously to be understood as voluntary), the Panamanian State, in exchange for substantial impunity vis-à-vis managers of financial funds of dubious origin, has welcomed all kinds of activities on its territory, causing its gross domestic product to grow out of proportion and creating a city worthy of the Manhattan skyline, but at the same time leaving millions of Panamanian citizens in the state of total poverty. Panama has been the subject of investigations, and not only journalists, in recent years, and this should put a lot of attention to the ways in which our country can and must interface with the Caribbean State. The measure we are about to ratify, on which - as I said - the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour, is only the first and fundamental instrument by which the magistrates of both countries will be able to prosecute crimes of all kinds. With the hope that the powers conferred by our Constitution on the Government in matters of international politics can increasingly be directed in this direction, the 5 Star Movement announces the favorable vote on the Senate Act 1600, which authorizes the ratification of the Treaty of judicial assistance in criminal matters between Italy and Panama. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u95	MARAN (PD). Mr President, I declare the Group's vote in favour of the draft law implementing the treaties on judicial assistance in criminal matters and extradition signed between Italy and Panama. The two Agreements make it possible to improve judicial cooperation with Panama, a country with which Italy is intensifying its economic relations, as part of the more general effort to combat international crime.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u98	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u99	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u100	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 1804, already approved by the House of Deputies. The working rapporteur, Senator Pegorer, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u101	, f.f. Mr President, this House is called upon to examine the Agreement between Italy and Canada on social security, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The purpose of the Agreement, like others of the same species, is to regulate certain social security aspects and to determine the coordination between the social security laws of the two countries, extending and improving the levels of protection for workers and their families. After offering a definition of the terms used (Article 1) and specifying the laws to which it will apply (Article 2), the Agreement provides, in Article 3, for its applicability to persons who are or have been subject to the legislation of one of the parties and to their family members or survivors, while laying down general principles of equal treatment and exportability of benefits. The understanding establishes a wide derogation from territorial legislation in favour of workers posted by national undertakings to the other contracting country (Article 7) and that specific rules for personnel employed in marine installations for the search for hydrocarbons and minerals located on continental platforms (Article 8) and for personnel employed on board ships and aircraft (Article 9) or in public administrations (Article 10). Of note are also the articles that provide for facilitated access to pension treatment for old age, disability and for the benefit of survivors, through the possibility of aggregation of the accredited contributory periods in the two countries. The Agreement also identifies the arrangements for administrative cooperation between the authorities and institutions responsible for the application of the bilateral text, for the exchange of information and mutual assistance and for cases of health checks. The subsequent articles provide for the exemption or reduction of taxes, taxes and other charges for the issue of certificates or documents necessary for the application of that legislation (Article 25), the application language arrangements (Article 26) and the automatic transferability of applications for benefits made in a State other than the competent State (Article 27), as well as the possibility for each national administration to pay in its own currency the benefits provided for in the Agreement under consideration (Article 28). Article 29 of the Agreement lays down the procedure for consultation between the two States on the interpretation or application of the Agreement, including the use of an arbitration panel, while Article 30 provides for the possibility of concluding social security arrangements between the competent Italian authorities and any Canadian province, provided that they do not conflict with the provisions of the Agreement in question. The draft law ratifying the Agreement consists of four articles which form the basis respectively of the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the financial coverage of the relevant charges and the entry into force of the text. Article 3 calculates the costs arising from the application of the Agreement in EUR 521,600 for 2015 and in approximately EUR 2 and a half million from 2016. The technical report contains an analytical explanation of the criteria adopted for the quantification of the number of possible beneficiaries of the Agreement and the charges resulting from its application in the long term, up to 2024.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u102	As you are not registered to speak in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene, we proceed to the examination of the articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u105	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u106	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 1 (continued the vote). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u109	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, there should not have been such a rush to ratify this agreement, as it has been twenty years now. Moreover, it was supplemented by an additional Protocol back in 2003, which is why it was perhaps not really considered urgent. The Italian-Canadian agreement on social security was signed by the Dini Government while the Additional Protocol of 2003 is the work of the Berlusconi Government, so I do not believe there will be any problems to the approval by everyone, therefore in absolute convergence, given the opportunity to finally launch the measure. However, past time has made some adjustments necessary, in particular in order to make the economic consequences of the measure sustainable and compatible over time with the constitutional dictation. It was therefore necessary to raise EUR 0.5 million for the current year and a further EUR 2.5 million from 2016. The fact that the Agreement extends social security protection in favour of Canadians resident in Italy and Italians resident in Canada is in accordance with the values of our legal system and does not, therefore, create any particular problems. As the Lega Nord Group and Autonomous Group, we will vote in favour of this agreement, even for a further political reason: every time an international agreement is ratified, on the other hand, a judgment is expressed in some way on the other side, which can only be positive. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u112	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, here too I am speaking only to announce our Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u115	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u116	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u117	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 1805, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Compagna, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u118	Mr President, the House must express its opinion on a bill of ratification, already approved by the House, of an agreement between Italy and Israel on social security which dates back to February 2010. The text regulates the social security relationships between the two countries, in particular by guaranteeing transferability of benefits and access to the aggregation of contributions paid in the two different social security schemes. The Agreement, which consists of 28 articles, applies to persons who are or have been subject to the social security legislation of the two countries and to their family members and survivors. A level playing field is ensured for nationals of the other Contracting State and for the territorial transferability of benefits. The employee, sent by an undertaking to the territory of the other Contracting State for no more than two years, shall remain subject to the legislation of the State of origin. However, where the posting extends beyond two years, the competent authorities or institutions may agree that the person remains for a further two years equally subject only to the legislation of the State of origin. The Agreement allows for the aggregation of insurance periods of less than 12 months (so that they are not eligible for a benefit), which may be linked by the competent institution of the other Contracting Party to payments made within its jurisdiction. Articles 13 and 14 specifically concern Israeli legislation, respectively on old-age or survivors' pensions and invalidity pensions, and in relation to those rules lay down the criteria for the aggregation of contributions. Similarly, Articles 15 and 16 relate to the application of Italian legislation for the purpose of contributions in the case of invalidity, old age and survivors' pensions, respectively, and to the methodology for calculating such pensions by the competent Italian authorities. Provision is also made for administrative cooperation and exchange of information. The costs resulting from the application of the Agreement are quantified in EUR 490,000 for 2015 and in EUR 1,719,000 from 2016. The technical report accompanying the draft ratification law contains hypotheses on the quantification of the number of possible beneficiaries of the Agreement and on the burdens arising from its application in the long run (until 2028). The survey takes into account the number of Israeli citizens who contributed to the INPS in 2011 and previous years (about 1,000 on average) and the number of Italian citizens residing in Israel registered at AIRE (about 3,000). The assumptions are made in relation to the forecasts of a aggregation of contributions paid in Italy or Israel only, with the exception of those for third countries. It is expected that approval of the Agreement will also result in lower social security charges for the INPS. For all these reasons, the Commission recommends that the House approve the draft law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u119	As you are not registered to speak in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene, we proceed to the examination of the articles. SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u122	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, as the Lega Nord Group, we will be voting strongly in favour of the Italian-Israeli bilateral agreement on social security for a variety of technical and political reasons which we will not express at this time, even on matters of synthesis. The extension of social protection for the citizens of the two countries seems to us an important fact, taking into account the close links between Italy and Israel. Hence the need and opportunity for the technical step that is taking shape today. Of course, the political fact also counts for us. The Northern League, in fact, considers itself as a sword supporter of the State of Israel that sees both as a garrison of democracy and progress and as a bulwark, in the Middle East, compared to the rising tide of radical political Islam. That is why our vote will be in favour. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u125	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, here too I am voting in favour of this measure by my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u128	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I shall be brief. The 5 Star Movement will not vote in favour of the measure to our examination, preferring the abstention to the contrary vote. The reasons underlying this decision are the same as those already expressed by the Members of our Group during the passage of the measure into the other branch of Parliament. The signing of a Social Security Agreement is an important act of the Government that should be preceded by other acts aimed at guaranteeing and protecting existing social security services in our country. As everyone knows, unfortunately, this has not happened and does not happen in Italy, a country in which, in recent years, the social security system has literally been stripped of an infinite series of rules that have ended up destroying the public welfare system. Only a few weeks ago, the Constitutional Court had to deal with this incredible situation, and it had to be said that it was necessary to return malt to pensioners (all of them!). Having said that, we are faced with the Government's request to ratify an agreement which would give rise to the extension of social security schemes to over 2,000 Israelis resident in Italy and almost 8,000 Italians residing in Israel. Without going back to the explanation of vote on the problematic nature of the measure relating to financial cover - which would threaten to depress even more the already depressed appropriations of the Social Policy Fund - I would like to remind you, however, as a discriminatory reason that cannot lead the 5 Star Movement to vote in favour, the lack of clarification as to the inapplicability of the provision of pacts to the occupants of territories not recognized by international bodies, which Israel continues to occupy in lawlessness. Thanks to this treaty we will see the extension of the rights, already greatly compressed in Italy, to Italian citizens who live and have worked in the territories illegally occupied by Israel, obtaining the perverse result of providing an international legal basis to an illegal situation for every international jurisdiction currently operating. This is not how our country's international diplomacy can and must work. A 2010 agreement, brought to the House today for ratification, will not be the way to solve problems between Italy and a confessional state such as Israel. However, because of the national governments, the citizens of the two states risk seeing their already restricted rights further compressed. For these reasons, the 5 Star Movement will abstain from voting on Senate Act No. 1805. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u131	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I am voting for my Group's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u134	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for the vote to be taken simultaneously by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u135	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u136	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 1806, already approved by the House of Deputies. The working rapporteur, Senator Pegorer, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u137	Mr President, the draft law ratifying the Agreement between Italy and Japan on social security, signed in February 2009, is largely similar to those we have just examined with Canada and Israel. The agreement, already ratified by Japan, aims to meet the need for coordination between the social security laws of the two countries, in order to improve the condition of the moving workers and members of their families. The Agreement, made up of 24 articles, aims to regulate, through the rules of international social law, the relations between the two countries with regard to certain social security aspects relating to the applicable legislation, including the protection of workers in the wake of companies in one country posted to the territory of the other, ensuring the transferability of social security benefits and avoiding posting companies and self-employed workers to pay the double contribution. After offering a definition of the terms used (in Article 1), the Agreement (in Article 2) lists the Italian and Japanese insurance agencies to which it will be applicable (and the relevant exceptions). In accordance with Article 3, the application of the understanding will concern persons who are or have been subject to the legislation of one of the Contracting States, as well as other identified categories of persons who have derived rights (essentially family members), under conditions of equal treatment (Article 4) with nationals of the other State. The following Articles provide: in Article 5, the territorial transferability of benefits, including in a third State in relation to Italy or Japan, and lay down (in Article 6) that a person employed or selfemployed in the territory of one of the two Contracting States shall be subject exclusively to the legislation of that State, unless otherwise provided for. The following Article 7, which is the central point of the understanding, provides that the employee sent to the territory of the other Contracting State shall remain subject to the legislation of the State of origin, unless the period of secondment exceeds five years (paragraph 1). Where that period of secondment extends beyond, the competent authorities or institutions may agree that the person shall also remain subject only to the legislation of the State of origin (paragraph 2). It is also laid down (paragraphs 4 and 5) that the provisions for the posting of employees shall also apply in the case of a person temporarily employed in the territory of the other Contracting State. In accordance with Article 10, the competent authorities or institutions of the two States may allow exceptions to the determination of the legislation applicable under the previous Articles of the Agreement in respect of particular categories of persons, at the request of a self-employed person or, jointly, an employed person and an employer. The Agreement also provides for administrative cooperation between the two countries. The relevant bill of ratification consists of four articles which form the basis respectively of the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the financial coverage of the related charges and the entry into force of the text. Article 3 calculates the costs arising from the application of the Agreement in approximately EUR 10 million for the year 2015 and subsequent years. The technical report accompanying the bill of ratification amounts to almost 3,000 Italian citizens residing in Japan and enrolled in AIRE and nearly 8,400 Japanese residents in Italy. As a result, there is a significant burden on INPS, due to the much higher number of Japanese workers employed in Italy. Moreover, this burden is slightly mitigated by the fact that, in the event of the entry into force of the Agreement, the contribution of Japanese workers to the INPS would cease and therefore the increase in the contribution benefit due to them under Italian legislation at the time of retirement and return to Japan would also be reduced.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u138	As you are not registered to speak in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene, we proceed to the examination of the articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u141	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u142	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u145	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, this measure follows the previous ones. There is a need for social security between Italy and Japan, with the main aim of protecting workers in the wake of companies posted in the territory of another country, also in order to avoid double contributions. This ratification was called upon by Japan on more than one occasion because Japan itself had already promptly ratified the Agreement, also taking into account the fact that our country is the only one in the G8 that has not yet ratified it. I therefore believe that we really need to align ourselves with the other states. I am of the opinion that this ratification is urgent and it is therefore clear that it is not just a matter of avoiding some damage to the image of our country but of putting us in a position to complete the process of the Agreement. That is why the Group of the North Legacy voted in favour. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u148	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I rise to announce, again, my Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u151	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, as in the case of the previous draft law n° 1805, the 5 Star Movement will abstain on the draft law under consideration. I will not dwell in the explanation of vote on the reasons that lead our Movement to take this decision, however I renew the doubts about the government's work on social security services and internal social security and I do not understand how this system, now marked by decades of robberies, can be extended, outside (or within) our borders, to Japanese citizens without generating further problems, perhaps even more serious than those that all Italian citizens suffer daily. Moreover, I would like to stress that the measure is from 2009, i.e. from a geological age it does in the field of social security services: just think how many times, from then to date, has returned to the whole of the rules that govern this sector. Finally, but not for reasons of importance, I cannot fail to mention the problem, which is not sufficiently evaluated, of the reciprocity of the covenant provisions. The technical report, which accompanies the draft law of ratification, notes a considerable burden on the INPS following the entry into force of the Agreement under consideration due to the almost double number of Japanese workers employed in Italy by Japanese companies compared to Italian workers active in Japan on behalf of Italian companies. The net burden for the INPS under the scheme would be more than EUR 10 million per year. For all these reasons and inconsistencies, the 5 Star Movement, although regretted that it could not extend rights, already strongly compromised in itself, announces its abstention on the measure under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u154	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u155	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u156	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 1807, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Compagna, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u157	Mr President, the purpose of the bill is the one you referred to. The Treaty follows a consolidated model on this subject, on the basis of the 1983 Strasbourg Convention, which was last used in a treaty with Brazil; the aim is to facilitate the rehabilitation and social reintegration of sentenced persons, which can be better achieved if the penalty is granted in the social environment of origin. Article 2, which sets out the general principles of the Treaty and which provides for its applicability also with regard to children under special treatment in accordance with the laws of the two parties, is of particular importance. The conditions for the transfer are that the sentenced person must still serve at least one year's sentence, that his conduct is also a criminal offence for the executing country, that the sentence is final, that the transfer is consenting and, finally, that it is agreement between the two parties. In accordance with Article 5, the transfer may be refused if one of the parties considers that it poses a threat to its sovereignty and security or if criminal proceedings against the sentenced person are in progress. The consent to the transfer must be voluntary and informed and the executing State must be placed in a position to adequately verify the correctness of the relevant procedure. The sentence to be served in the executing State may under no circumstances exceed the maximum laid down by the law of the executing State for the same offence. The expenses arising from mission expenses are estimated in approximately 33,000 euros per year from 2015. The additional costs, mainly relating to the translation of documents and documents, amount to approximately EUR 4,500 per year. For all these reasons, the Commission proposes to the House a vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u158	As you are not registered to speak in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene, we proceed to the examination of the articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u161	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u162	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u165	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I declare the League's vote in favour of the measure which, not only goes to establish important relations with new countries, specifically talking about the transfer of convicted persons, but goes beyond the text we are talking about. We are talking, in fact, of countries in Central Asia, which have a great interest and look towards the West for a social, economic and, in this case, also judicial model. We will then have a second treaty that talks about military agreements. The Agreement recognizes each other and the respective citizens, once they have a final conviction, provided that this exceeds the year of detention, can be transferred. The two jurisdictions are recognized; the validity of their respective judgments is recognized and - more importantly - the two criminal law systems are aligned because the crime, in order to be covered by this Treaty, must be foreseen by both countries. This means that the two judicial models will increasingly overlap; it means that the European model that Italy incarnates can also be exported to the countries of Central Asia. Looking at what is happening in the Middle East, where there is a delicate situation, indeed extremely worrying, we understand the importance of having other countries that are attracted by our model and not by models of tribal justice that could take over in those areas. Let's think, for example, about what could happen to the Baptists case if we ratified a similar treaty with Brazil: for years we have not been able to get a sentence executed because that country does not recognize the judgment issued by our country. Therefore, on behalf of the Lega Nord and Autonomy Group, I am voting in favour of the draft law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u168	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, on behalf of the People's Area Group (NCD-UDC) I am voting in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u171	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 5 Star Movement Group will abstain on this measure because it considers that it does not meet the minimum requirements for a free and democratic state to sign acts of international significance. The Contracting Country is governed by a substantial dictatorship with which our country seems to establish fruitful diplomatic relations, since only today we ratify two treaties with this State. I would, however, like in previous cases, like the explanation of vote on the content of the measure under consideration, point out that the bilateral treaty signed comes after Kazakhstan's refusal to sign the Convention promoted by the Council of Europe on the subject of sentenced persons, signed in Strasbourg on 21 March 1983 and open to the signing and accession of States which are not members of the Council. As reported in the explanatory report preceding the draft law under discussion, as well as in very useful notes from the Chamber of Deputies' Studies Service, this Convention is the most applied legal instrument in the matter of international transfers of prisoners in order to execute final sentences. However, our country cannot abide by this Convention in order to have relations in this area with its Kazakh partner. For this reason an act was signed with a dictatorial government, in order to transfer the three Italian citizens today detained in Astana and the four Kazakhs detained in Italy. Finally, but no less important, what will happen in the event of requests to Italy about the extradition of possible opponents of the Kazakh regime is not clarified. Not to mention the fact that the reservations provided for in Article 5 would make it possible to frustrate the entire scope of the commentary act. For these reasons, the 5 Star Movement Group will abstain on Senate Act No 1807 of ratification of the Treaty with Kazakhstan on the transfer of convicted persons. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u174	TONINI (PD). Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will also vote in favour of this measure. The measure is now part of a long line of bilateral agreements that allow to serve the sentence to those sentenced in the country of origin, so as to avoid an additional affliction that is to have to serve a penalty for a crime committed and for which they have been condemned definitively in a context so alien to the natural one. Of course, my colleague's concerns are to be taken into account when it comes to countries other than our own, from the point of view of the rule of law and from the constitutional point of view. However, this kind of collaboration is also a lever that allows a country like ours to promote an evolution in the sense of respect for human rights and the rule of law also in other contexts and countries. Therefore, by assessing the measure as a whole, the positive elements for us are by far the most important. So we support this ratification.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u177	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u178	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u179	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1729. The rapporteur, Senator Fattorini, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u180	Mr President, this House is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying and implementing the Cooperation Agreement between Italy and San Marino on broadcasting, signed as early as March 2008. This is the fourth bilateral agreement between the two countries examined by Parliament during this parliamentary term, after those relating to double taxation, financial cooperation and cooperation for the prevention and repression of crime. The agreement, already ratified by San Marino, essentially commits Italy to the payment of an annual flat-rate contribution for the use of radio frequencies assigned to San Marino by the International Conference on Radiocommunications in Geneva. These frequencies are needed by RAI to allow the migration to digital terrestrial transmission systems in the territories bordering San Marino. The Agreement also promotes cooperation between the public service concessionaires of the two countries, extending their catchment area with a project aimed mainly at the Balkan-Adriatic area. The Agreement specifies the terms of cooperation between public service broadcasters, in particular in the development of programmes and content for television and radio channels, in the provision of television products, in the use and sharing of broadcasting facilities and in the development of projects in the web and televideo sectors. A commitment is also made between the Parties to work towards a better functioning of the plants, in line with the development of the new technologies and the establishment of a Joint Committee to monitor the implementation of the Agreement. Economic burdens are quantified in just over three million euros per year.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u181	As you are not registered to speak in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene, we proceed to the examination of the articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u182	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u184	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u185	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u186	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u188	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, we shall abstain on the vote on this draft law. In fact, we believe that, since we are facing, in a very serious and very demanding way, in the Commission of reference, the 8th, the reform of RAI, the scenario that we will see in the coming weeks and months in the country will certainly be very different from what we have at this time. Even from the political point of view, let me point out that if good morning is seen from the morning, it will be a very stormy day. There is one thing that leaves us quite perplexed in this Agreement. Basically it has reason to exist and it is a fact that our country must have solid relations with San Marino also with regard, for example, to the issue of television. However, what leaves us quite perplexed is that, in some parts, it seems to us written in a somewhat distorted, somewhat ambiguous and unclear way. I'll explain. To write, again, in an Agreement, that the use of these frequencies will allow the passage from the technique of analogue transmission to the digital one of the Regions Emilia-Romagna, Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia is a consolidated fact. This was done and therefore, this thing could also be omitted. But this is technicalism. The strangest thing - which, at least personally, seems very strange - is referred to Article 4, which states that the Republic of San Marino and the company San Marino RTV can access any satellite consortium to develop any activity in this area, in particular the one relating to the implementation of a programming aimed at the Adriatic area and the Balkans, aimed at spreading the Italian language, culture and so on. So I wonder - I don't want to be evil - what we want to do: perhaps the sixteenth RAI channel to cross the borders of the country? We certainly don't need it. In fact, maybe RAI needs to review its programming a little bit. This part - I repeat - seems to us to be written a little bit in a sibillina way from this point of view. Then there is the question of frequencies. The tacit renewal of this Agreement is not established here in time order. Probably in a few years - possibly even before the expiry of this Agreement - the frequencies will be reallocated in Geneva and it may happen that Italy takes them back or even that technology tells us that they are not available. Therefore, we are somewhat doubtful about this Agreement, which is certainly written in a precise and precise manner with regard to the formalisms in the international sphere; however, from a technical point of view, since we are in a very difficult and difficult terrain, we would not like our country and state television to assume at this moment, in some respects, too particular commitments that would undermine future decisions. For these reasons, we will not vote against it, because, as I said at the beginning of my speech, it is right that the ratification of this Agreement with San Marino be done. However, we believe that, by virtue of what I have just said, if perhaps the text had been accompanied by a more detailed technical report on the future scenarios of transmissions and RAI agreements such as to foreshadow RAI developments by focusing attention on what we are trying to do at the moment, perhaps this would have helped us to make a more serene decision. Therefore, we will abstain. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u189	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u191	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to speak in favour of this measure too. As far as the concerns expressed by Mr Crosio are concerned, they seem to us to be politically legitimate, but I do not think that the ratification of this Treaty provides for an expansion of RAI towards neighbouring countries through the Agreement with San Marino. So, as he himself admits, by making an abstention vote and not a vote against, ratification does not foreshadow anything for what are the subsequent implications and parliamentary deadlines for the reform of the radio and television system.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u192	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u194	MARAN (PD). Mr President, I declare my Group's vote in favour of this measure. The agreement, which has already been ratified by the Republic of San Marino, renews a previous collaboration agreement between the two countries in the field of radio and television, which dates back to 1987. The use of radio frequencies assigned at international level to San Marino is necessary to RAI in order to allow the movement towards the transmission systems of digital terrestrial in the neighboring territories; it can also allow to extend the catchment area, with a project - as we have remembered - mainly aimed at the Balkan-Adriatic area. I would like to remind you that one of our colleagues, Senator Zavoli, has made a great effort to lay the foundations for this agreement. I would like to remember that, because it is another good reason to vote in favour of the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u197	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u198	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u199	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 1879, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Fattorini, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u200	Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Deputies, for the ratification of the agreement between Italy and Kazakhstan on military cooperation. The agreement responds to the need to develop and regulate bilateral cooperation between the Armed Forces of the two countries, with the aim of consolidating their defensive capacities, as well as to induce positive indirect effects in some productive and commercial sectors. Kazakhstan, despite the lack of progress in democracy - as we know - and respect for fundamental rights, is, however, experiencing a period of growing economic and industrial development and is engaged in an effort to modernise its armed forces. It is a country that occupies an area of particular strategic and political value also for Italy, given our country's international commitments in the region of Central Asia and in view of the progressive decommitment from neighbouring Afghanistan. The Agreement consists of a short preamble and 13 articles. The main areas of cooperation are: defence policy, military training and the import and export of arms and military equipment. The agreement regulates how cooperation can be implemented, including official visits, operational meetings between their delegations, exchanges of experience, etc. Article 5 lays down in principle the right for the host country to judge the staff hosted for crimes committed on its territory, except in cases of penalties provided for in the host country which conflict with the fundamental principles of the State of origin. The Agreement provides for an annual military cooperation plan, including the activities, periods and places of conduct, as well as the responsible bodies and their sources of funding. The financial aspects of the Agreement shall be defined on the basis of the principle of reciprocity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u201	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Cotti is enlisted to speak. As he is not present in this Chamber, he is intended to give up his speech. The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u202	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u204	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u205	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u206	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u208	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, I would just like to say that in the previous vote I was wrong to vote: my real intention was to cast a negative vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u209	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u210	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u212	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, those red lights that pointed out the votes against on the articles of the measure imply a position: we have already heard how the 5 Star Movement feels about the relationship with authoritarian regimes. However, I would like to point out that Kazakhstan may not be a hyperdemocratic regime, but since it gained independence in 1991, it has embarked on an important, even dizzying, process of growth, so much so that the population has never changed its vote. It is true that the Presidents are elected by more than 90% of the votes, but it is also true that, as long as this is the case, no one would want to reverse that kind of path. With this measure we are talking about military cooperation which we are in favour of, because it is a transmission belt, which also involves industrial and commercial relations. With that area we have great mutual interests: in those areas we produce energy, which we need extremely much, while we have so much interesting technology for them. Let us remember that our military should have returned from Afghanistan in 2015, but from there we do not return by air. It would be very expensive to transport materials and means in this way: either they abandon themselves there or we have to take a different path. Kazakhstan has made itself available for our troops to pass, and it is therefore important to have a military agreement in this respect. I would like to say a second thing: since Article 4 of the Agreement also provides for the implementation of the import and export of defence materials, I would like to remind you that the Italian defence and aerospace industries constitute points of excellence. In Kazakhstan there is another very interesting thing for us, namely the base of Bajkonur, which is the most interesting point of the globe for the launch of satellites into space. This type of cooperation affects both countries and if we can find in that area of Central Asia a market for our defence industry, which like the whole Italian industrial sector is struggling at the moment, I do not consider it such a negative fact. I therefore vote in favour of the Northern League Group. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u213	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u215	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am speaking only to announce our vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u216	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u218	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, the draft law No 1879 of ratification and implementation of the Agreement between the Italian Government and the Kazakh Government on military cooperation may, at first sight, appear to be one of the many Security Agreements that our country has been making for some time in every part of the world. According to this Agreement, Italy will provide, in addition to intelligence and training services for the Kazakh army, assistance and supply of ships, aircraft and heavy weapons, with their ammunition. So more than an agreement on defence, this bill is in fact an agreement for the sale of arms to a country that does not respect human rights and democracy. It is clear that Kazakhstan's democratic gap has been in office since 1991 with the same President, who has always repressed all kinds of opposition in blood and imprisonment. The Shalabayeva case is only the last in chronological order, demonstrating how the Kazakh opposition is more formal than anything else. Suffice it to say that at all elections Nazarbayev wins with percentages above 90%; this condition, which any democratic country would define at least anomalous. It should also be remembered that the power of Nazarbayev extends uncontrolledly, even reaching collective punishments, as in the case of the protest of oil company workers in Zhanaozen, born to claim better wages and living conditions and repressed in blood with 16 deaths among the protesters, the imposition of curfew by the government and even the denial of the right to vote for the 50,000 inhabitants of the city in which protests took place. Another point to emphasize is the cult of the personality of Nazarbayev, who does not hesitate to promote his image by any means. These are some examples of the situation in Kazakhstan. On several occasions the humanitarian organizations have denounced practices of censorship by the Government, as well as real actions aimed at threatening or arresting political dissidents. The oil companies, including ENI, are, of course, responsible for the exploitation and poor working conditions of the Kazakhs, who rightly protest, but encountering government repression, which in these cases acts in harmony with the oil companies, or perhaps it would be better to say by proxy. A European Parliament resolution of 15 March 2012 calls on Kazakhstan to adopt anti-repressive policies regarding the right to strike, the right to assembly and freedom of the press, subjecting these actions to the conclusion of agreements of both a political and an economic nature and above all a military one. Well, Mr President, in the agreement we are debating today, there is no reference to actions to improve democracy, freedom of the press and freedom of demonstration, but there is explicit reference to the supply of arsenals, ships and heavy weapons and their ammunition. If respect for human rights has been the official cause of interventions in Iraq and Libya, if respect for the individual is the basis of the support of European states for Syrian rebels, then I wonder why, with regard to Kazakhstan, no mention is made in the agreement on improving the country's democratic conditions. Who guarantees that these weapons, once obtained, will not be used against the population? Nazarbayev is now 74 years old and has not yet indicated a successor and it is presumable that his exit from the political scene, sooner or later, will condition the stability of the country. The absence of human rights certifies the absolute irresponsibility of this agreement, which does not pay any attention to the consequences, but obviously is content to close a good economic agreement for the sale of weapons for our companies, perhaps in exchange for primary energy resources, of which the country is rich, and to which Senator Divine mentioned. So, Mr President, is economic data enough to clean up a dictatorial state? In 2013, trade with Kazakhstan reached 4.6 billion euros. Italy's exports to Kazakhstan amounted to 733 million euros, while imports amounted to 3,877 million euros. Italy remains in 2013 the second supplier country of Europe after Germany and the eighth supplier in absolute, and is the first recipient of goods from Kazakhstan (especially for energy products). Italy is therefore in third place among Kazakhstan's trading partners, after Russia and China, and is among the main European investors (no country for capital invested in absolute terms) especially in the oil and construction sectors. Indeed, the President of the Renzi Council did not ask many questions during his visit to the country last June. He had gone to sign oil and military transit agreements for our contingent in Afghanistan and to close the Shalabayeva case, right with Nazarbayev. If that is the consideration for human rights, then seem at least grotesque, the excuses that led to the invasion of Iraq and Libya, and the attack by proxy to Syria, all countries that do not respect human rights as well as Nazarbayev. But oil and the interests of the ENI are known to cure any democratic problem. Due to its geopolitical position Kazakhstan is also a central actor for the recent syno-Russian strategic agreement, as the country borders North with Russia and East with the People's Republic of China. This particular situation makes Kazakhstan increasingly unstable, for obvious reasons of geopolitical predominance of the two giants. The supply of arms to Kazakhstan will not be seen with good eye either by the Russians, or by the Chinese, who will consider Italy as strategic partner of the Kazakh dictatorship, and as a result will also act against us, in an already tense diplomatic situation, especially with the Russian Federation. The PD and the gallopers who support this Government are aware of this and assume the responsibilities of this agreement to the end. We are giving the tools for a potential massacre of the Kazakh population and we are making it aware of what might happen. These, Mr President, are the reasons why we are voting against this agreement. Vote in favour of us means associating with a bloody and totalitarian dictatorship, which will bring nothing good to the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u219	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u221	MARAN (PD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of my Group, also because the agreement responds to the need to develop and regulate bilateral cooperation between the Armed Forces of the two countries with the intention not only to consolidate their respective defensive capacities, but also to produce positive effects in some productive and commercial sectors, explicitly. Of course, progress on democracy and fundamental human rights is still scarce and they are not what we would have liked, but our foreign policy is inspired by the basic idea that, through law, association and what is called engagement, political civilisation can be produced, that right, association, involvement and inclusion form the most appropriate framework for promoting political learning processes for inclusion and for making progress. Kazakhstan is experiencing a period of very intense economic and industrial growth and development, and is a country located in an area of particular strategic and political value, especially for our country, since the commitments made by our country in the international and central Asia region, also in view of the progressive decommitment from neighbouring Afghanistan, make it even more central.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u222	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u223	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u224	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u225	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u226	Mr President, I am particularly pleased that you are here because I would like to raise two problems which concern all the senators and also the role they play. The first problem concerns two articles that appeared on "Il Fatto Quotidiano", which anticipate that a few dozen MPs and senators would have a guarantee notice or would be suspected for having visited my colleague Totò Cuffaro in prison. Among other things - again according to this daily newspaper - a Senator Undersecretary would already have received the request for resignation from the 5 Star Movement Group and other colleagues it is not clear whether they were charged with this visit, the question of collaborators or the content of the talks. Of course, as soon as I read the news about "Il Fatto", which is usually well informed about the judicial events of this strange story, I turned to the top of the penitentiary administration who fell totally from the clouds and replied that to them, in press review, never arrived the news of an ongoing investigation in Palermo on all the parliamentarians who went to visit Senator Cuffaro, so they knew nothing about it. I would point out that this is not an inquiry into a single Senator or Member of Parliament but, according to the report, an investigation has been carried out into all Members who have visited Totò Cuffaro and the manner in which these meetings have of course been authorized and always accompanied by the prison police and the prison director. Now, I think one of the works of mercy is going to visit the prisoners. I would not want this principle to be called into question in our country as well. I would therefore ask the President of the Senate to look into the matter further, since "Il Fatto" is an authoritative newspaper and has published two articles on this subject, making names and surnames of senators of various Groups that would be indicted. The reason for the investigation is not clear, but the political repercussions have been immediate. A group has already asked for the resignation of a Senator Secretary, referring precisely to these articles, so I ask the President of the Senate to look into this issue which very closely concerns the prerogatives of the Members of Parliament. Secondly, once again this year Members of Parliament have not been invited to the local police party and I am not even thinking about that of the Carabinieri. Of course, I have been informed, since I have been a Member of Parliament for many years and I have never missed the party of the Police to which Members have always been invited if nothing else because in this place the commissioner illustrates the situation of public order in the Province: what are the emergencies related to crime, what problems concern mafia crime and how can be addressed on the territory the problem of emigration. So from the quaestor's voice a parliamentarians can learn about crucial issues both because they are elected there and because for their parliamentary activity they have to take advantage of what the quaestor reports just to give an example, the quaestor can talk about the fact that the phenomenon of thefts in homes has intensified. I understand that the President will tell me that this circular is not significant and that obviously there will be someone in the Government who will have thought well to do so, but I believe that the President of the Senate - and I am asking him that - can intervene in this form of delegitimation of Parliament because if Members are not invited even where they are elected and where they can relate to local and regional councillors (because according to the circular, local and regional councillors are invited, while Members are not) I would like to know what remains of the parliamentary function and the reasons why this practice is changed after decades, unless we want to say that Members and senators are not invited on principle because there would be a negative prejudice in the press about them. Mr President, both of these issues seem very important to me and I would like the presidency of the Senate, since they concern the prerogatives of Members, to be able to inform itself and perhaps to communicate this information to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u227	Senator Giovanardi, I can answer immediately the second question you raised: the Feast of the Police and the Feast of the Carabinieri, this year, were made in such a minor tone that not even the President of the Senate, the President of the Chamber and the institutional bodies that usually participate were invited, precisely because of the absolutely minor and particular tone of the feast. From this point of view, therefore, I can already give you a partial answer. Of course, I will look into this further, as well as informing me of your first request. Mr President, I am referring to local parties. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll go deeper, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u228	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u229	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u230	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to denounce a very serious fact which I think is of real interest to all Italians and, in particular, to Members of Parliament. Since June 1 in North America, South America and Canada you no longer see RAI. This happens because RAI has not closed the contracts with the overseas signal distributors, so what was once was RAI International, RAI Italia, which brought information to our fellow countrymen abroad and which was the showcase of Italy abroad, is currently obscured. This is particularly serious because, first of all, it is mandatory, in the public service contract, that RAI carry out this function. Among other things, the public service contract, which we voted unanimously in the RAI Supervisory Committee, lies in a drawer of MISE and Director Gubitosi. This is further serious because the last service contract is 2012. It was voted, but it was never signed. Moreover, if the RAI does not fulfil the contract, it risks losing the agreement with the State to do the public service. Still, from the citizens abroad, resident in America, we received five million dollars of canon, which currently cannot be requested and which, above all, was used to pay the distributors of the RAI signal abroad. This is an unprecedented fact, especially in the light of the reform of the RAI that we are doing, Mr President. I will certainly put questions to the RAI Supervisory Committee, but here the Government and the Presidency need to put pressure on Gubitosi. The responsibility should be RaiCom and its CEO De Siervo, but I imagine that the responsibility is not only his and that there are higher levels of responsibility. This is precisely in the light of the examination of the reform of the RAI that we are dealing with today's general debate in the 8th Commission. It is an unlikely situation, especially if the announcements of all political forces were to reform the RAI and make it more efficient. Therefore, Mr President, let us start here. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u231	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u232	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u233	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, unfortunately, the Lazio Region still has yet another scam on waste management, particularly in the province of Viterbo. This morning at dawn the operation Vento di maestrale took place, which involved about 120 operators of the Forces of the order between agents of the Road Police of the province of Viterbo, Carabinieri of the same province and other Carabinieri of the NOE of Rome. There have been nine arrests, not only in the province of Viterbo, but also in that of Rome, Latina and the Umbrian province of Terni. There have been several searches in administrative offices of public bodies. A plant for the biological mechanical treatment of waste has been seized in Casale Bussi, in the province of Viterbo, where there seems to have been fraudulent conferral of waste of Lazio and, in particular, of the province of Rome. Many of the crimes contested, such as fraud, fraud in public supply and office abuse. In short, too many crimes are being recorded in this country on the subject of waste, and we, as the North League, want clarity. This is what Italian citizens and in particular the citizens of the Province of Viterbo want, where these crimes have occurred. As for the failure to comply with the waste directive, which is often the result of poor public-private links, it is worth recalling the different convictions of the European Court of Justice, which have condemned Italy to pay several fines on waste and landfills. I want to remember the last one, on December 2, 2014, where Italy was called to pay a fine of 42 million euros every six months. So we want clarity by denouncing this yet another negative fact. For this reason, the Group of the North Legacy will present a parliamentary question. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-457.ana.u234	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.29 a.m.
