ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time), under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on interventions for business crises and support for companies and energy initiatives, with particular regard to renewable sources and mining activities, to which the Minister for Economic Development, Dr Guidi, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. So let us turn to questions about interventions for business crises and support for businesses. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u6	VALDINOSE (PD). Madam Minister, the European Commission's latest economic forecasts are encouraging. According to these forecasts, gross domestic product will grow on average in member countries by 1.8% in 2015 and estimates for Italy are also positive. The Commission indicates GDP growth for our country of 1.4% in 2015 and also predicts an improvement in public finances both in terms of deficit and debt. ISTAT has also published, just today, encouraging data both on GDP and on investment growth, stimulated by the improvement of the conditions of access to credit, but above all they welcome the prospects for increasing employment and the forecast reduction of the unemployment rate that will be expected, again according to ISTAT, to 12.5%, to decrease further in the following two years. I am convinced that these are tangible signs of the recovery taking place in the country. But some signs are still too weak, such as those relating to the unemployment rate; in particular, the rate of youth unemployment is still too high: almost one in two young people, I would point out, are out of work. On the labour market the Government intervened effectively with the decontribution of permanent contracts provided for in the law of stability and with the jobs act. Beyond the high level of data, I believe that the fruits of these choices will be seen in the next period: it will be the economic recovery, certified by all, that will drive the recovery of employment. Is it possible to intervene to speed up the recovery? That's the question I ask myself and I ask you. I am convinced that the government must push with conviction on the path of innovation, especially with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises, since always the fundamental fabric of our economy and productivity. I want to take the example of my land, Romagna, and the Province of Forlì. [[Recalls of the President]] Have I finished my time yet? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, there's live television and I have to force you to respect the times. VALDINOSE (PD). Of course. I would like to add one question: what are the initiatives and activities that the Ministry for Economic Development has already put in place and is implementing in relation to the use of resources, which are very large (EUR 80 billion in seven years), provided for by the Horizon 2020 European programme?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u9	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, in recent months new business disputes have been opened, which are now innumerable and which involve the most disparate sectors of activity and many thousands of workers. Italian entrepreneurs, in addition to multinational companies (such as Electrolux, Acciaierie di Terni, Whirlpool) close or relocate, creating real social dramas. Those who do business in our country suffer from the inefficiency of bureaucracy, which does not give answers and creates unbearable operational obstacles, a taxation that has reached unacceptable levels, the inefficiency of civil justice, which unfairly benefits the debtor against the creditor, the fact that the State is still too slow in paying its debts to companies. The 2015 DEF tells us that the government is preparing to rationalise the tax breaks for businesses by 0.15 percent of GDP. We ask the Minister when the government finally decides to take concrete initiatives so that, instead of witnessing continuous corporate crises, the conditions are created for international capital to invest in our country. These initiatives are implemented by simplifying and making bureaucracy efficient, taxing in a reasonable way, enabling creditors to protect their rights, having a good example of a state, pays their debts on time and makes clear and credible commitments in the management of business facilities, especially in the field of research and supporting the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u12	CASTALDI (M5S). Minister, in all industrial sectors, with the exception of food and pharmaceuticals, the loss of production has taken on worrying dimensions. The government now confines itself to multiplying the tables of confrontation. We are in the age of "tables" which, as we know, often produces results opposite to those desired. Let's think, for example, of what is happening with the operation that Renzi, in one of his lying shows, called fantastic: Operation Whirlpool. It is not enough to say: I personally spoke to the Americans at Palazzo Chigi in order to prevent the closure of the factory from being proposed. Incidentally, we (with the present town Moronese in the front line) will accompany the struggle of these workers until we have the certainty that the direction Whirlpool has changed its mind about the closure of the plant in Carinaro. We are not satisfied with the requests for careful reviews of industrial plans with the priority of safeguarding employment levels. We simply want an industrial policy. I would also like to mention the case of the WHOA-Golden Lady: eclipsed establishments in Serbia and workers without more protection and wages. Economic policy must pay particular attention to the industrial sector, but with ideas other than usual economic incentives, subsidies and public funding. These brief reflections lead me to ask what models of intervention, in your opinion, must be changed and what accompanying policies are intended to be defined in order to prevent the decline of the industrial sector from becoming irreversible. Finally, I take advantage of these few seconds to ask if, in your opinion, it would not be better to value Italian strategic companies before selling their shares.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u15	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Minister, with the amendment of labour market legislation, the Government had expressed its intention to create the conditions for an increase in employment. We have news from the agencies responsible for measuring social dynamics that this is not happening. But something else also happens. I would like to talk at this moment about the situation of Auchan, who throughout Italy is substantially reducing the economic treatment of his staff, putting the staff themselves in front of the choice between a reduction of the rights deriving from the contracts signed or the dismissal or, worse still - because it is a form of hypocritical dismissal and masked - the transfer to points of sale distant from the residence of the person concerned, which is not conceivable, waiting for the majority (about 60 percent) of the employees of Auchan to have a part-time contract around twenty hours. Moreover, Auchan has inexplicably kept all the managers out of the dismissals, involving the same only low-skilled staff. The doubt that comes to us is that this is in some way prodromic to a replacement of the contracts of the employed staff: from old contracts, less interesting for the company, to contracts deriving from the regulations just modified. What we ask of the Government is what it intends to do; especially if it wants to try to interpose between the parties, waiting for the datum part in no way awaits the requests of interlocution carried out by the unions, and if it intends at least to try to have an interlocution that has at least a minimum possibility of being effective.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u18	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, I would like to ask a question which may be of interest to both of the subjects we are discussing today. I am referring to interventions for corporate crises in support of companies. Given that the producers of electricity and heat from renewable sources give jobs to thousands of people in a direct and indirect way, that the sector is strongly in crisis and that already the first companies have submitted an application for agreement; a possible failure of the sector would cause the loss of the huge investments made by the operators, estimated in about one billion euros; considering that the activity receives until the end of 2015 incentives through green certificates, that the producers sell monthly on the market transforming them into money, but from 1 January 2016 the GSE will pay the producers an incentive in cash equal to the amount of the green certificates; also considering that this modality of change from green certificates to payment of a direct incentive has already entered into force, while still it is not clear how often the GSE will erode the incentives, it is asked, Minister, if the Ministry and the Government do not consider it appropriate and necessary to provide for the monthly supply of the incentive that, from 1 January 2016, will replace the green certificates, in order to help resolve the problem of liquidity and produce a substantial improvement of the monetary cycle for the benefit of the enterprises of the sector.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u21	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Minister, in recent years, Italy has lost important parts of its industrial heritage as an accomplice to the economic crisis. According to the Competitiveness Report published by the Commission of the European Union from 2007 to 2012, Italy lost 20 percentage points in the industrial production index and, with regard to productivity, lost many positions even compared to economically weaker countries. The report also shows that, without structural reforms, the Italian industrial position is only set to worsen. The proliferation of corporate crises in every part of the territory generates heavy consequences on the country's economy, feeding the industrial and occupational depletion of the territories themselves. There are about 150 open business crises, which see the employment of about 450,000 workers. Of particular importance we have the AST of Terni, the Lucchini of Piombino, the Alitalia, the Electrolux, the Indesit, but also the ILVA and the Meridiana leaving aside some dramatic crises, such as those of textiles and construction. As a result, the induced companies, especially those of micro and small size, which are on the verge of failure, are also heavily affected by the crisis. With this question we ask the Minister what immediate initiatives he intends to take for the structural relaunch of the Italian industrial system, ending the proliferation of corporate crises in the country and the serious loss of jobs. However, Italy's economic decline is due to the lack of an industrial policy strategy at national level.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u22	I call the Minister for Economic Development, Dr Guidi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to briefly outline some of the instruments we have put in place as the Ministry of Economic Development. In the short time I have available I will also try to give some reading of what have been called crisis tables or, however, the main situations that we have faced in recent months regarding the corporate crises. Certainly there is a general recovery in place, which must be supported. Of course, however, we still have a long tail of a dramatic period, which we have behind us. So we still have to deal with the effects of this period of crisis that - I believe - we have now definitively behind us, with certainly growth prospects ahead of us. I don't think dealing with individual crisis situations with tables is useless. Some of the companies that Senator Council mentioned earlier, such as Ilva, Electrolux di Piombino, Acciai Speciali Terni, Meridiana and Lucchini, have actually found a solution in recent months. So, I think this is a piece of industrial policy: trying, in the meantime, not to disperse many of the industrial assets that we have in our country. Certainly not all situations are the same: some are still in progress, some are complex, some have had some solutions I would say definitive, others are still being monitored to define of course the follow-up. However, we have consolidated some situations that, only a few months ago (five or six months ago), were really very serious, maintaining and saving many jobs. With regard to some of the most recent crises that you have mentioned, such as that of Whirlpool, we have a table convened permanently, not only because we gather people around a table, but also because from it we expect you to find, as in other recent cases, a solution. From the first hours, the Government has highlighted some positive aspects that in the industrial plan Whirlpool there are, but certainly it has not hidden - it has said with great force - the non-sharing on some points of the plan that foresee, in particular, the closure of some plants, like that of Carinaro. On this point we are also working in these hours - we have done so in the last few days and we will do so in the next few hours - and we do not just want to find solutions that use social shock absorbers: we want to find industrial solutions and arrive at a change in the industrial plan that allows us to maintain real jobs, with solid foundations from an industrial and productive point of view. As far as the Prysmian Group is concerned, this is also a situation in which we are proud, in the process of becoming, and which we are following. Here too there is an open confrontation with the company. Here too we have said that we are looking for solutions to avoid the risk of a closure that has been announced for the time being. I do not exclude the possibility of identifying formulas or instruments which, in some way, are able not only to promote reindustrialisation, but also, for the time being, to keep the production site open. We are committed, also in this case, to make the company willing to follow a path that does not lose jobs in Ascoli Piceno. Before I was asked a question about the story of Auchan, which is at the initial lines: there was a contact, there were negotiations between the company and the trade unions. The Ministry is fully available, also in this case, to enter, to open a table, to be an active party and to try to identify all possible solutions that can prevent the current situation, namely the opening of a mobility procedure. Here the reasons that the company puts forward are others: there is a need for a comparison with the trade union organizations. As we have often done in many other cases, the Government offers itself to host negotiations typically union at the Ministry, not only to assist and host in its own spaces, but to be active and to seek in every way to identify a point of mediation that, as always - this is our guideline from the beginning - makes sure to limit, if not totally avert, the risks with occupational impact. I would also like to give some information on some of the instruments we have put in place to try not only to limit these situations and resolve them, but also to give prospects for the future. First of all, I would like to mention Law 181 of 1989, which provides facilities for industrial crisis areas. With a reform of the discipline of reindustrialisation interventions in crisis areas, forms of intervention have been introduced in support of so-called complex crisis areas which provide for the preparation of industrial conversion and redevelopment projects through the signing of certain programme agreements. I mention only some of the most recent ones, namely those related to the areas of Trieste and Piombino, for which the agreement to the Ministry was signed today. These are tools that are working. As regards the facilitations for research and development projects under the Sustainable Growth Fund, we have launched a number of actions with a first call for research and development projects for small and medium-sized enterprises in the areas identified by Horizon 2020, with a budget of EUR 300 million, aimed at supporting the regulatory proposals of companies, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises. 75% of applications submitted were approved and a total of some EUR 200 million were granted. Also on the thematic calls, in October two additional interventions of the Fund with a total budget of € 400 million were implemented. Both calls are aimed at promoting, again in this case, the implementation of major research and development projects in the field of electronic information and communications technologies - issues related to the digital agenda - and in the field of so-called sustainable industry. With regard to the program agreements with the Regions, with the decree 1 April 2015 it is possible to finance research and development projects within the framework of agreements concluded by the Ministry of Economic Development with the Regions and with other public administrations in order to promote the competitiveness of companies of significant size of specific territories. Some of the agreements that are being developed with the regions concerned have also been used to resolve some cases of corporate crises, such as Electrolux, and the financial resources from the Sustainable Growth Fund are EUR 80 million. Another instrument that is having great success is the so-called development contracts. Overall, 49 strategic investment programmes were facilitated, with investments of more than €1.7 billion and employment safeguarded or in any case created of 29,000 units. Recently CIPE has authorised an additional 250 million for new development contracts covering the entire national territory and the window will be operational from next June. Another measure, which has been strongly requested by companies, is the one introduced by the Stability Act, with which we have established a 25% tax credit for incremental investments in research and development in the 2015-2019 five-year period. For the costs associated with highly qualified personnel employed in research and development, as well as for the costs of research carried out with the university and research organisations and other companies the tax credit from 25% was increased up to 50%, with a click-day mechanism, without tap, then with a certain and automatic mechanism. As for investment support measures, as you know, we have financed the new Sabatini law for the period 2014-2016. We are talking about an instrument that has had a great success and that is still widely used today. The Sabatini Act provides for a soft loan for all small and medium-sized enterprises for the purchase of capital goods. Reservations of finance by small and medium-sized enterprises have already exceeded the ceiling originally made available: requests for funding received in one year amount to €1.8 billion. Other facilities have been provided for the creation and development of innovative enterprises, including self-employment and self-employment. I recall, in this regard, the so-called Smart & Start decree, which we have already issued in 2014, with the first edition dedicated only to the Regions of the Mezzogiorno, which financed 442 companies, for a total of 75.4 million in terms of concessions granted. Since last February, there has been a new intervention with a budget of approximately EUR 200 million. The applications submitted today in relation to the so-called Smart & Start decree are about 720, for a total of facilities required of 390 million euros. Other facilities were also provided for access to credit: the Central Guarantee Fund, which is a very important instrument, granted more than 86,000 guarantees in 2014 alone, triggering new bank financing for small and medium-sized enterprises totalling almost EUR 13 billion. The whole of these measures that I have described to you naturally aims, first of all, to reactivate the cycle of private investments, the fall of which of about 25% during the period of recession was certainly one of the main determinants of the loss of competitiveness of the Italian companies, who had not been able to support a technological evolution in facing the new markets and the future of the enterprises precisely because of the fact that they failed to adequately support their development projects. We estimate that in this way, with all this series of measures that we have put in place, incremental investments of around EUR 10 billion in capital goods can be activated. Moreover, and I conclude, the Government and the MISE are working precisely for a great project of deregulation and simplification: we want to reduce the burdens and obligations on companies. From this point of view too, it is a question of working to give certain and faster times on many of the administrative and bureaucratic procedures. Certainly the situation is improving. As I said before, I believe that we need to act on two fronts: to maximise the remaining complex crisis situations that we have, trying to cover a transitional period and, at the same time, to put in place measures such as those I have tried to describe quickly, which can consolidate new foundations for growth, development and competitiveness on the markets from here to the next few years. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u26	VALDINOSE (PD). Very briefly, I thank Mrs. Minister for giving us a broad and comprehensive picture of the activities and initiatives put in place by her Ministry. I believe that the hub of innovation and research is really fundamental and that the use of European funds is strategically based. Of course, we are at the beginning of the programming period, although the incentive initiatives and activities are already different and very significant and important. Over time, we will have to pay attention and monitor closely the good use and effectiveness of these funds, which are really relevant and which must serve to increase our production system and, above all, to reduce the unemployment rate, so as to provide a truly great prospect for our young people.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u29	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr Minister, apart from your sincere respect and appreciation for your person, I must say that your answer did not satisfy me. The economic situation in your opinion is improving: I fear that the Italians have not noticed it. Companies, whether Italian or foreign, remain in Italy or come to Italy if the economic conditions are favourable, otherwise they go away, there is nothing to do. The government devotes itself with great intensity to institutional reforms: beyond merit, they are important but do not serve to solve the problems of the economy. In the economy the Government did not reduce public expenditure and therefore did not create the premises to reduce taxes. Moreover, the process of simplification and deburocratisation is far from even being initiated.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u32	CASTALDI (M5S). Minister, of course, I am dissatisfied with your answer, not least because I do not see any strategies. A short time ago I read an article in which it is said that Whirlpool workers will probably be transferred to St. Peter's Finally to work on some parts of the F-35. I repeat, I don't see any strategies. Moreover, citizens must know that you have created these situations by not including in the agreements the safeguard clauses for workers. Those who participated in those tables said that you didn't open your mouth, only the representatives of the companies spoke. It's important to know. Then, there is no doubt that there are objective difficulties, which we recognise and which have existed for a long time: low quality of infrastructure, inefficiency of public administration, contradictory rules. But what does this government do? Think of the great works, to worsen the functioning of the public administrations, to increase the regulations and not to simplify them, to implement an electoral law of the fascist era to save the "sederino" to the appointed parliamentarians (which we will have again), so I do not see industrial strategies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u35	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Minister, thank you for your answers. At the moment I would like to suspend the judgment and not express a negative one, because I believe that the political controversy in the face of the tragedy of job loss must take a step back. I hope that you will actually promote these meetings and check that companies do not play the lion's part, since in the context of this opposition they clearly represent the strong part. There are people who already earn very little and in a situation such as the present one I believe that none of us, political representatives of opposition or majority, can allow other jobs to be lost. Therefore, beyond the important distance that separates us from the point of view of political vision, I hope you will take note of what your role is at this time and assume it as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u38	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, I am sure you will give me the answer when you address the issue of renewable energy, because my question has certainly been put in that context. I therefore await that procedural moment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u41	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Minister, you have listed the many actions that the Government has done and intends to do. Some of these are considered positive, but their effects will be clear in a few months or a few years. At present, therefore, these forecasts remain on paper. The figures say that our hypothetical recovery is still much lower than that of other countries in Europe. We have unemployment at 13-14 per cent and youth unemployment is between 42 and 43 per cent. We have an increasing public debt, although there are some positive economic data such as an oil price never so low and an extraordinary release of liquidity by the European Central Bank. We did not worry about relocations, because we considered them a conquest of foreign markets, and we did not even see a sketch of industrial strategy capable of significantly overturning the very negative economic trend. Senator Carraro is probably right: only the Government has noticed all the positive things you have listed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u42	We now come to questions on energy initiatives, with particular reference to renewable sources and mining activities, which will be answered by the Minister for Economic Development, Dr Guidi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u45	SCALIA (PD). Minister, past governments - not really this, which, perhaps even with some forcing, have sought and are trying to remedy the situation - have focused a lot, with very strong incentives, perhaps exorbitant, on renewable sources, such as photovoltaics and wind, which have proved very expensive and above all not yet programmable. The A3 component of the energy bill, on which these incentives affect, has now reached almost 13 billion euros, of which about 7 are dedicated exclusively to photovoltaics. The dispatching costs have almost doubled: in the four years 2010-2013, in which installation of plants has been concentrated more, they have increased, precisely because of the non-programmability of these sources, at the rate of 500 million euros per year. Hydropower obviously did not have equal attention from past governments, if the production capacity remained firm in the 1960s (about 50 terawattora) and even decreased in 2012 (to 44 terawattora), but continues to be the main renewable source in our country, since still in 2013 it produced 47 percent of the entire production from renewable sources. It is the most flexible source, obviously the one with accumulation, and more programmable, which therefore allows to reduce and reduce the dispatching costs. To get to the point, better maintenance of the large and medium dams would be sufficient to greatly increase the production capacity of this energy source. The Italian National Committee for the Great Dams has estimated that half of the invaded has interred, with a reduction of the average capacity of invaded of approximately 47 percent: this means that freeing the invaded, besides being necessary work for environmental and safety purposes, would almost allow to double the production capacity of those plants, all the more considering that not its Ministry, but that of the infrastructures to this would be held by the decree-law save Italy of 2011, which had given two years of time to identify and at least plan the interventions to do, but to date it turns out that this has not yet happened. The question is therefore whether its Ministry, in future planning, intends to give greater attention to hydropower in the energy mix, compared to other renewable sources.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u48	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Dear Minister, in Italy the renewable energy sector covers 16.7% of final energy consumption. There are however some critical issues, in particular for the expiry of incentives for renewable electricity sources, with the exception of photovoltaics. In general, the price of energy is still too high compared to the other countries of the European Union - even 70% on the average - and is burdened by taxes that slow down the processes of investment and growth and of course severely damage the competitiveness of all our companies. It seems strategically fundamental for our country the valorization of the great sources of supplying and the creation of great international and intercontinental energy distribution networks. We therefore ask you, Minister, what action the Government intends to take to promote at European level the development of two-way cross-border networks for the transport of energy, in view of a surplus of electricity production that could be sold to other countries. What measures and resources does the Government intend to take to continue supporting the renewable energy sector in the coming years, including with a view to improving the profitability of incentives? What are the measures that the Government intends to take in the field of fuels of biological origin, which in our country cannot currently be used, contrary to what happens in several other countries, even in the developing world? Finally, what measures have been taken and will be taken to combine the commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which have been taken against the opinion of this Senate in two different legislative acts, with the objectives of industrial growth and economic recovery?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u51	GIROTTO (M5S). Minister, the economic convenience of renewable generation systems (so-called efficient user systems, SEU) is based on the opportunity for self-consumption energy to pay the variable component of the system charges only to a small extent: 5% of what the customer pays as a system charge for energy from the grid. The Decree-Law No 91 of 2014 established the measures in order not to reduce the total amount of consumption subject to the payment of the charges: in order not to decrease the total revenue of the charges with the increase of the distributed generation, a gradual increase of the variable component of the system charges paid for the self-consumption energy, without retroactive effects, must be implemented. The Authority has opened the consultation for the reform of network tariffs and tariff components (...) for domestic electricity customers and provides for the remodulation of charges. The Authority has expressed preference for the T2 tariff, which, by providing for a balance of the revenue from the charges to 50-50 between fixed component (proportional to the power) and variable component (proportional to the withdrawals), goes to modify the current part, which instead sees the variable component prevailing. The Authority follows its own political position in the reporting to the Government n. 348 of 2014, in which it was asked to give addresses to the Authority for the purpose of a complete and homogeneous redistribution of the coverage of the general charges of the system, pointing out that it considered that it would be preferable to obtain explicit forms of incentive if still necessary for the promotion of efficient plant solutions. The government never responded. The Authority now takes over the political-legislative power to eliminate substantially the EUS, emptying its convenience in the domestic environment, which today is the most widely used. All this in violation of the provisions of Decree-Law No 91 of 2014 and nullifying the efforts that the companies of the field are doing for years to continue the industrial activity in the field of the distributed generation from renewable source. The above has already been reported to this Government by means of a parliamentary question. It is intended to ask whether the Government has indicated to the Authority the need to operate within the powers assigned to it and to ensure compliance with the provisions of Decree-Law No 91 of 2014 and the survival of the SEU.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u54	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, Minister, Article 38 of the Italian Decree-Law, whose text during the parliamentary process of the Senate was unfortunately armored without the possibility of improving its contribution, provides for simplification measures relating to the granting of oil exploration, research and cultivation activities. In order to enhance national energy resources and ensure the security of the country's supplies, it qualifies the exploration, research and cultivation activities of hydrocarbons and those of underground storage of natural gas as activities of strategic interest of public utility, urgent and indifferent. At the same time, with the 2013 European delegation law, Parliament delegated the Government to transpose Directive 2013/30/EU on the strengthening of the environmental safety conditions of offshore oil and gas operations, the origin of which stems from the environmental disaster of the Deepwater Horizon oil platform, which took place in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010. This Directive appropriately emphasises a close relationship between the major risks of possible accidents that may occur, the verification of the economic guarantees by the applicant company to cover the costs of an accident and the application of all necessary measures to identify those responsible for compensation in the event of serious environmental consequences. Finally, during the discussion of the draft law on environmental crimes, the House of Deputies removed the rule prohibiting the use of air gun as a research and prospecting technique; the rule had been included during the Senate examination, with the approval of an amendment by the opposition on which cross-cutting convergences had taken place, resulting from a common concern about the excessive liberalisation of oil research and exploration activities that would endanger the protection of the environment and the territories. Minister, I ask you to know how many and what concessions have been granted following the entry into force of the simplification measures provided for in Article 38 of the Italian Decree, in the absence of the application of the new rules provided for in Directive 2013/30/EU; whether it is not appropriate to anchor these new concessions to the European legislation being transposed, in order to ensure higher levels of environmental safety; whether, in order to ensure better financing of new investments for hydrogeological failure, for the health of citizens and for the protection of the environmental quality, it is not the case to allocate a share of 20% of the revenues deriving from the payments of the recipients of new concessions for the cultivation or extraction of liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons to the regions concerned by these activities; considering the importance and delicacy of the topic, as well as its strong topicality, which are the reasons why the Government has not yet issued the legislative decree implementing the delegation provided for in the European delegation law mentioned.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u57	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr Minister, next December, as I hope you will know, the decisive 21st Conference of the Parties to the Framework Convention on Climate Change is being convened in Paris, during which fundamental decisions will have to be taken on energy policies and the prevention of global warming. The Government has not yet clarified what direction it intends to take in view of this important international deadline and in particular what energy policies and emission reduction targets it believes it will take to implement the commitments that the European Union will take and which are already outlined in the guidelines adopted by the European Council and the Commission. I therefore ask you how this context of international commitments is reconciled with the insistence of the Government on fossil sources, reaffirmed not only by Decree-Law 133 of 2014, the so-called unblock Italy, but also by the vote on the provision on environmental crimes, in the Chamber of Deputies, which abolished the norm approved by the Senate in the matter of extractions through air gun. As you will be aware, Minister, on 3 March 2015, in conjunction with the discussion on the measure on environmental crimes, an agenda was approved by the Senate that commits the Government not to grant new authorisations for exploration, research, cultivation, storage of hydrocarbons at sea, to not follow up the procedures in the course of investigation and to suspend any proceedings in itinerantly not complying with the requirements of Directive 2013/30/EU and to bring it back into the context of the forecasts of the directive. In light of this, I ask you whether you do not think it necessary to revise Article 38 of the so-called decree unlocks Italy, thus reopening the dialogue with the Regions on energy choices. I therefore ask whether it does not consider it appropriate and urgent to direct the Commission's priorities for action towards energy saving and efficiency and the development of renewable sources.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u60	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Minister, already in February this year the current incentive ceiling of EUR 5.8 billion for renewable sources other than photovoltaics was exhausted. The Ministry of Economic Development had already planned to issue a new decree to increase this incentive limit. Currently, the incentive mechanism is blocked, causing great uncertainty, both for the plants already under construction, with a view to accessing incentives, and for the new plants in project, which are waiting for the definition of the new incentives to be realized. In addition, simplification of qualification procedures and access to incentive mechanisms, in line with other European countries, would be desirable. Minister, I would like to ask you whether and when a new government decree on incentives for renewable energy other than photovoltaics is planned to be issued, whether and to what extent an increase in the incentive ceiling is envisaged and whether, and in what terms, measures are envisaged to simplify the procedures for the qualification of plants. As the producers of electricity for own use, owners of plants that entered into operation before December 31, 2014, have until May 31, 2015 to qualify their own plant in the system of efficient systems of users (SEU), I ask you if the Government does not consider necessary and urgent to provide quickly for an extension for such qualification.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u63	RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Mr President, Minister, in line with what has been said by a number of speakers, on the agendas approved in this House, with the Government's favourable opinion, and by the Commissions on the substance, we had to block everything concerning Article 38 of the so-called Italian decree-law, which I have always defined - and even today - the drills. In fact, this is an operation that only benefits the oilers and to the total disadvantage of the territories that have been targeted. So much so that the President of the Council Renzi had to declare more than once that of Sicily and Basilicata you would have made of it the new Texas, but neither Sicily, nor even the Basilicata have this opportunity. I am referring to Sicily in particular, the ruins of Augusta, Milazzo, Priolo, Gela, territories that have been truly destroyed. And do we want to go back to oil again? Another question is the following, Minister: why has our Government - you - failed to implement what is happening regularly in Europe with regard to the certainly more precise procedure for granting concessions? Instead, with a sponge stroke you have also deleted European procedures. Oil is the prospect, is it the future of this country? You sold it as a moment of employment and development in our country, but at least I don't believe it. The real alternatives, which also mentioned Senator Scalia in his speech, are for example the hydropower, on which there is a lot to do and which offers many opportunities, as well as for other alternative sources. I think it is right and proper that this Government should stop to avoid this further disaster for our future generations.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u66	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Minister, the question that the League Group is asking today concerns the issue of energy. The national energy strategy, on paper, should be, in line with Community guidelines, to promote the development of energy from renewable sources, with the aim of strengthening and rationalising the renewables system in order to increase its efficiency. However, in order to allow for the effective development of renewable energy sources, it is essential to adopt regulation in the sector which is able to guarantee operators the possibility of planning investments and the stability of standards over time. The incentive ceiling has already been mentioned, these EUR 5.8 billion which have already been used to a large extent (EUR 5, 4 million). The fear is that the maximum ceiling of these 5.8 billion will be reached before the expected deadlines with the risk that a sudden interruption of the incentive mechanism will occur, leading not only to the impossibility for many small plants in the construction phase of being able to access the incentives, but also to a situation of confusion that risks blocking the investments in the sector. The sector - we remember - of renewables is strategic for the economy of this country as it generates a significant contribution in terms of wealth and employment and the Government itself has long announced the imminent launch of ministerial decrees aimed at confirming the support to renewables. To date, however, no measures have been taken in this direction. There is an urgent need for action to define the rules for the sector that are valid for the coming months and, in general, for the coming years. We therefore ask the Minister if he would like to make known the details of the subsequent incentive mechanism for renewable energy plants in order to give continuity to investments in the sector and what are the times of adoption of the ministerial decrees announced.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u67	I call the Minister for Economic Development, Dr Guidi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u68	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would like to answer the question that I owed Senator Berger regarding the payment mechanism and the passing of green certificates. I believe that overcoming the green certificate mechanism needs to be deepened, and so I agree with you. With regard to the possible different methods of payment, some of which you mentioned, I believe that we will have to - and we will - make a careful technical assessment of the impacts that individual solutions can have. As far as energy policy is concerned, I would say that one of the government's objectives is to ensure the competitiveness, accessibility, security and sustainability of our supplies. Of course, we also have some constraints. The first is what comes from the European directives; the other is what comes from the international context; the third is that linked to the legacy of the past. Of course, starting from this point, we must remember that already in 2013 Italy had basically achieved, seven years in advance, the European targets for the promotion of renewable sources, because they covered 16.7% of gross final energy consumption, compared with a target of 17% in 2020. There is, therefore, a real possibility of achieving the most ambitious objective, which we have indicated in the national strategy, of 19-20 per cent. Of course, this is an important and ambitious result, which has also been achieved thanks to a strong incentive policy. From here I also connect to the future. I believe that in this context we must also read the pro-future incentive policies, both that of self-production and self-consumption, and that of European climate policy. As far as the promotion of renewable energy is concerned, the latter, together with energy efficiency, are certainly one of our priorities for action, including in the long term. That is why we need to strengthen the elements of rationality, coherence and organicity in our incentive policies. For photovoltaics, the roof of 6.7 billion euros annually was reached in June 2013, so since July 2013 explicit tariff incentives are no longer available for this technology. For the other sources - here in advance a next decree in the process of being issued - the roof, as has been mentioned, is fixed at 5.8 billion euros per year. Currently the GSE counter indicates 5.7 billion euros per year. As a Ministry we will issue, by the month of May, a new measure that re-use in favour of the sector the resources that become available. A calculation mechanism will apply, taking into account the moment when new installations actually access the incentives to which they are allowed and in any case subject to the maximum ceiling of 5.8 billion. Therefore, a decree will be issued in which will be adopted selective methods of allocation of resources, based on the greater impact on the productive system and the promotion of the most innovative technologies. The new measure, therefore, will serve to give continuity of support until the end of 2016. In the meantime, of course, we will start working on defining the rules for the period from 2017 to 2020. This split into two phases is also necessary to comply with the above-mentioned European guidelines on State aid in the field of energy and the environment, which specify not only how to support renewable energy but also how to adapt to the new principles which Italy shares - I repeat - in line with the new principles. With regard to the hydroelectric source (especially the large one), I can only reiterate that it is certainly a resource of strategic importance for the country. The issue of maintenance, as is well known, is also interwoven with the competences of other administrations, in particular regional ones. In any case, I agree with the need to safeguard hydropower production to the maximum and to continue to support it. On this issue, as well as on the regulation of the sector, I guarantee the utmost commitment and attention of the Ministry. The government's support for the development of renewable sources is not only of a financial nature, but also of the issue of simplifications. The qualification procedures have long been overcome by other procedures for access to incentives. Again, I take this opportunity to announce that very soon I will sign a ministerial decree aimed at radically simplifying the procedures for solar panels with a power of less than 20 kilowatts, through the compilation of a single model. This brings me to the SEU issue. As you will recall, the Competitiveness Decree states that the general system charges for self-production and self-consumption configurations are determined by referring exclusively to the electricity consumption of the final customers or to parameters related to the connection point. Therefore, from a formal point of view, it is considered that the Energy Authority, moreover, in a consultation document, is working on evaluations within the parameters defined by law. But there is another reason, perhaps much deeper and not more formal, for such a forecast of law: reasoning at the limit, if all consumers were to produce the energy they need and if payment took place only on the basis of energy consumption, all would be exempt and no one would pay the costs of maintaining and developing the network and the same system charges, in spite of the obvious positive externalities deriving from the existence and the maintenance in operation of the network. This shows that, just thinking of a growing evolution of distributed self-production, the old system that was based only on variable parts is no longer current. Of course, the burden sharing between the two parties (fixed and variable) must be balanced. The Government will compare with the Authority and will monitor the topic, also in view of the implementation of a specific forecast of the same decree competitiveness. With regard to the expiry of the deadline for the qualification of EUS, it derives from the implementing regulation issued by the Energy Authority and GSE, and there are no grounds for urgency for further action. However, it will be possible to deepen and possibly point out to the subjects already mentioned the opportunity of terms even less stringent. I come to the European strategy for promoting sustainability, which also goes for the integration of markets. Integration has its own regulatory and physical dimension; the first is translated into the so-called market coupling at the Italian-Slovenian, Italian-French and Italian-Austrian borders, and is now operational. The second involves - and I answer another question - the realization of appropriate cross-border infrastructures: this is a priority both Italian and European, which also finds space in the Juncker plan. Among the projects of interest of our country are particularly important the electrical interconnection projects developed by Terna, respectively with France and Montenegro. With regard to France, it is a link able to increase the capacity of about 1,200 megawatts, also exploiting the route of the motorway tunnel of Frejus, while the intervention on Montenegro is even wider and has the ambition to connect the Italian electricity grid with those of all the Balkan countries. More generally, however, the Italian commitment is fully part of the European effort to promote the decarbonisation of the economy. This is an objective that Italy has not only shared, but to which it has contributed in the first person also trying to define the instruments regarding the reduction of emissions, through the promotion of renewables and the improvement of energy efficiency, always, however, in the context of a strong attention to the cost-benefit ratio and a principle of technological neutrality and innovation. Therefore Italy will be in Paris, fully aligned with the European Union, of course: we will ask for the international community to take on ambitious objectives and we will be at the forefront, as we have been up to now, in doing our part. Compared to the question if there is a contradiction between this and the exploitation of our subsoil, I answer that I do not think so. I believe that decarbonisation is a process that must be pursued, it must be completed, but first of all it must be feasible, and this presupposes a transition to a truly possible future. In this context, ignoring national resources, in a context of strong environmental constraints, would be an incomprehensible choice. Finally, with regard to biofuels, Italy is not only in line with the European objectives, but, also thanks to the decrees adopted between the end of last year and the beginning of 2015 by the Ministry of Economic Development, it has recently equipped itself with a discipline even at the forefront at the European level, which sets challenging targets and values advanced biofuels. With regard to the resumption of mining activities, the Government certainly wanted to give a strong impetus to this recovery, while at the same time strengthening the guarantees on the protection and quality of the environment. If we exclude the great producers of the North Sea, Italy occupies the third place for certain reserves of oil and the fourth for certain reserves of natural gas of Europe. In our opinion, the so-called unblocking Italy goes in the sense of rationalising the discipline in the matter of exploitation of the subsoil, while ensuring sustainability of the activities of exploration and production of the infrastructures, with particular regard to the protection of the environment and the health and safety of the workers. The exploitation of mineral resources is, of course, also an important source of tax revenue. In this regard, the Ministry also welcomes initiatives aimed at ensuring greater resources for measures to combat hydrogeological failure, and in this respect a hypothesis such as the one discussed under the last Stability Act I think should be deepened, although of course there are budgetary constraints that we must take into account. Attention to the environmental impact of upstream activities will, however, be further strengthened by the transposition of the offshore safety directive. The transposition text of the Directive is basically ready and will be adopted as soon as possible. Of course, in this respect we have also sought to further strengthen safety at sea in the conduct of oil and gas operations, by establishing requirements common to all the countries of the European Union, to prevent serious accidents linked to these operations and to limit their consequences. The scheme of the legislative decree of transposition provides for the direct involvement, in the management of security, of the Italian institutions that, according to the national legislation in force, are competent in this matter and are of course responsible for carrying out the tasks provided for in the directive. Also in relation to the safety of activities and also in the mores of the definition of a complete regulation of the matter by all the competent national and regional authorities, the Ministry, however, for its own competences in the matter of mining, has considered to have to proceed also and timely to the development of guidelines for an advanced and integrated monitoring system. These guidelines can also be applied, through appropriate adaptations, to all human activities involving large artificial basins, geothermal activities, underground storage of CO2, mining extractions and, more generally, underground activities also at sea. The first phase of application on pilot cases is planned and has already been started and the development can be followed and monitored also on the website of the Ministry. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the interrogations, for a minute, true, each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u71	SCALIA (PD). Minister, I am pleased, not only for the timely answer to my question, but also for the synthesis that has taken from the energy policy of your Government and for the emphasis - I am merely referring to this point, for short - that has made it to energy efficiency, which I also interpret as the will to engage on measures that have a technological and industrial relapse in our country, ending with the madness of the past, such as the encouragement of sustainable biolimits. We are giving hundreds of millions of euros to Indonesia and Malaysia for palm oil that is burned in Italy and that also pollutes. They are resources and incentives that weigh on the component 3 of the bill, which all go to other countries without having any relapse in our country. There is a rule and there is a decree, which your Ministry must adopt - please do so quickly - precisely to facilitate the escape from this form of energy production, which is really insane.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u74	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Minister, it is undoubtedly difficult to intervene with the time available, which does not allow to deepen all the arguments. You have given us an answer on biofuels, so we are at the forefront. Then, perhaps, at another stage, he will explain to us why, however, they cannot be used in Italy. Secondly, the underlying problem is electricity which - I have seen the latest data I have been able to find on the European electricity markets - sees in Italy cost 45 cents what in Germany costs 30 cents and in France 20 cents per kilowatt hour. This is undoubtedly necessary for our companies already in difficulty for a justice that does not work and for a tax and a suffocating bureaucracy. This strategy is paid for by the mistakes of the past, with those who wanted a referendum that deprives Italy of a particular source of energy, which has practically made our entire energy plan, which, on the other hand, was also wanted to repeal with the same referendum.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u77	GIROTTO (M5S). Minister, the answer is completely unsatisfactory. We demand that energy policy choices be implemented in a transparent manner and in the relevant forums. Moreover, the regulatory emptying of efficient user systems is part of a more comprehensive and general obstructionism de facto to the spread of distributed generation. See, in addition to what today denounced, the non-enablement of renewable sources and the distributed generation to participate in the market of dispatching; the block of closed distribution systems with impossibility to use in self-consumption the installed plants on the buildings; the lack of recognition of forms of preventive question of the GSE with consequent explosion of a dispute of enormous size and cost between GSE and the energy producers; the impossibility of defense for the small producers of energy regarding the determinations of the GSE (the cost of an appeal makes it anti-economic); the block of any possibility of adaptation to the technological development in the systems encouraged with the new GSE rules; blocking the operation of ESCOs in the private solar thermal sector through the imposition of energy service contracts; the failure to prepare contracts and standard notices to allow public administrations to tender, without excessive costs, for the installation of distributed power plants.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u80	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, Minister, I am unfortunately not entirely satisfied with your reply, because I expected precise dates for the adoption of this transposition measure. You have spoken of planned times, but the time is July 2015, so in our country - as I say in this House - we are currently living in a great contradiction. Article 38 of Decree-Law No 133 of 2014 has liberalised this sector, without the Senate being able to intervene in this respect, in a considerable and broad way, without applying those guarantee rules that Europe has asked us for and that we decided to transpose in October last year. Minister, I expect the Government to be quick to adopt a measure by the President-in-Office of the Council, because this House is about to approve the amended text by the House, where the ban on air gun has been lifted. I have pointed out in my speech that that vote is transversal, not casual, but son, according to my assessment, of a concern that can only be reset by the immediate execution of an act due by the Italian Government. We have to adapt to Europe; we have said that we want to do so, so let us do it before we vote on the final text of the draft law on eco-reactors; in this way we will give a response to the citizens and the signal to be consistent with the rules of Article 38 of the Italian Unblocking Act, but also with what Europe demands. Europe has asked us - and we have said yes - to adopt the rules of security and guarantee given to dealers, who, thanks to Article 38, will have concessions for forty years, and who thus far escape the application of the European standards that we wanted to transpose, but which we have not actually transposed because there is no delegated decree. This gives rise to my partial dissatisfaction, because I would have expected the Minister of the Environment to report to us on his transposition into the Council of Ministers; I hope he will do so next time, and I hope that it will happen before this House meets to vote on the final text of the draft law on eco-reactors which will be amended by the House. [[Applause from Senators Castaldi and Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u83	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I find myself completely dissatisfied. Mr Minister, you, among other things, on the specific point on which I asked you to respect also the commitment that had been made on the agenda voted by the Senate, it was absolutely omertosa, and I say this knowing exactly what I am talking about. It is clear that Article 38 was a trick to circumvent the entry into force of the directive. We also officially ask you what is the number of permissions you have issued knowing that this attitude of the Government is producing a risk for our country also in terms of infringement procedures. Not only that, but the same act of erasing the anti-air gun rule means that this Government is harming national interests, because that technology is mainly used by foreign companies; you know it perfectly well, and the phrases made on the Paris Conference and the commitments on decarbonisation are contradicted. You know perfectly well that this madness of drilling is not in favor of the interests of the country or the communities, but only of the usual known ones, which perhaps you know well. [[Applause from Senator Castaldi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u86	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Minister, I am pleased with your reply and thank you for being very timely. I would simply ask you, as you said about converting green certificates to direct payments, that the payment methods be monthly so as not to create additional economic problems for companies that are already in great difficulty.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u89	RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Minister, I am completely dissatisfied with your answer, because you have not answered my question or the similar questions put by other Members. You may feel embarrassed not to give us an answer, but the Government, for what was the procedure of Article 38 of the aforementioned decree unblocks Italy, did only one thing: it did exactly what the oilers told him, not taking into account what damage instead will go to the territories in which the drillings and drillings will be carried out. I am even more indignant in the face of an answer that has not been on a topic strongly felt in some areas of the country and I am convinced that sooner or later, starting from my Sicily, there will be a riot to prevent it repeated once again in those territories the disaster that we know. We are talking about realities that need agriculture and tourism; they certainly do not need to see their territory scarred.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u92	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Minister, on the other hand, I personally liked your reply, but the reality of this country is that there is really no serious energy strategy, as our Group has been complaining for some time now. I can tell you that I liked your answer, but we have the most expensive energy in Europe. I could tell you that I liked your answer, but it is a pity that we have products of excellence that are produced in energy-intensive industries that, precisely because of the cost of energy, are not at all competitive on international markets. Thank you for the answer, but in one of the last measures a sector such as renewables has become very difficult, only to make a drawer. Thank you for your willingness, Minister, but I am absolutely not satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u93	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Guidi for his time and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u94	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-446.ana.u95	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 12 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.18.
