ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-537.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.05 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 3 November.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-537.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-537.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-537.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-537.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. The vote on the Minutes of the sitting of 3 November will be postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-537.ana.u6	I inform you that on 14 November 2015 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers: Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 179 of 13 November 2015 on urgent provisions in the field of accounting and of aid to the balance of public finance of the Regions" (2133).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-537.ana.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, as is well known, the 5th Permanent Commission has not completed its examination of the draft stability and budgetary laws in the framework of the timetable for the House. President Tonini, by letter dated 13 November, asked for permission to continue the work of the Budget Commission in order to conclude it tomorrow. Consequently, the debate in the Assembly on financial documents cannot begin until Wednesday 18 November, as defined by the Conference of the Leaders at the meeting tomorrow at 4 p.m. Tomorrow's afternoon sitting will not take place. As already announced informally to the Groups, the Assembly will come back to meet tomorrow afternoon, at 5 p.m., for an information from the Government on the attacks in Paris. Groups will be able to intervene for five minutes each. During the debate, the 5th Commission is authorised to continue its work. I also inform you that Parliament is convened at 1 p.m. on Wednesday 18 November for votes on the election of three judges of the Constitutional Court. The call will begin with the senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-537.ana.u8	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, on Friday evening, Paris was hit by a series of terrorist attacks that caused 132 deaths and hundreds of wounded. A normal evening of a quiet weekend has suddenly become the tragic scene of an organized massacre, aimed at the most common symbols of daily carefreeness: a sporting event, a musical show, the conviviality of a dinner at the restaurant among friends. Among the innocent victims of those senseless massacres today we also mourn Valeria Solesin, who in Paris used her talent through social studies at the Sorbonne. The violence and cruelty of terrorism hurt and affect the freedom of individuals, the freedom of peoples, all humanity. The attack on France is an attack on the Europe of peace and on all those who believe in democracy and freedom. They are inhumane, unworthy and vile gestures. We firmly reject the attempt to subject citizens to fear through a message of death. Violence, terror and offense to human dignity will not prevail. We will continue to defend democracy, freedom and the fundamental rights of all people in all circumstances without hesitation. On behalf of the whole House, and with deep emotion, I address our thoughts, our affection and our solidarity to the French people, the wounded and the families of the victims. I express the closeness of each of us to all those, wherever they are, who suffer from the atrocities of terrorism and the Islamic State, embracing them with the deep friendship of those who feel united by a common humanity. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-537.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-537.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-537.ana.u11	WRITER IN ZUANNA (PD). Mr President, Italy, Veneto and the city of Venice are all around the family, boyfriend and friends of Valeria Solesin. All of us parliamentarians, in making the difficult decisions to combat the factory of terror effectively, should always have his sacrifice in mind. The small community of Italian demographers is shocked by the loss of a young scholar, who has already given interesting research contributions, showing an uncommon balance and a surprising maturity of judgment. Personally - although, unfortunately, I didn't have time to meet her - I saw myself in Valeria's human and professional life: PhD in demography, at her age I attended my first seminars and conferences in Paris, then as now among the major European centres for population studies, as well as many Italian demographers have done in recent decades. For me it is easy to understand why Valeria, a young sociologist with a three-year degree in Trento, and intensely engaged since she was a teenager in voluntary activities, has dedicated herself to this field of study, first with a master's degree and then with a doctorate at the Sorbonne. Demography flies peoples because it constantly discovers the similarities in the fundamental events of life, such as familying, bringing children into the world, migrating and dying, constantly rediscovering the fundamental unity of the human family. Valeria wasn't a brain on the run. She was a young Italian and European citizen who had chosen France to dedicate her scholarship to the things she was most interested in. Valeria compares the situation of women in France and Italy, highlighting the profound differences in the labour market, in welfare, in cultural milieu, but also highlighting some important affinities. I want to give you a voice in this House by reading the conclusions of an article you published in the magazine "Neodemos" a couple of years ago when you were only 26 years old. I quote: In a European context in which women's employment is promoted, the consequences of the arrival of children on the professional activity of women cannot be ignored. While Italy, on the one hand, is struggling to achieve the objective, enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon, of 60% female employment, it can be seen that in France, a much more performing country, the employment of women is still sensitive to the age and number of children present in the household. This is why greater sharing of family and professional responsibilities between women and men in both countries is desirable. We will miss you, Valeria; you will first of all miss your family, your boyfriend, your friends and colleagues, but, as your mother said with very sublime words, you will also miss your country. Our passion, our commitment and our work are worthy of his sacrifice. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-537.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-537.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-537.ana.u14	BERTACCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I agree with what has been said and with the condolences for the victims of Paris, especially the Italian victim of my land, Veneto. I want to remember this girl - whom I clearly could not know personally - remembering the parents, who I think all of you have seen in the interviews with the various news; I want to remember the strength, the determination, the conviction expressed in their words to keep alive their daughter, a daughter who committed herself to social and who they defined as a brain on the run, because Italy had not given her the opportunity to demonstrate those great abilities that, instead, in France, at the Sorbonne University, she was demonstrating. A girl full of life, who loved life but who, above all, as emerges from the parents' account, loved to help others. I believe that at this moment of particular tension, when it was declared war on the West, we must surely be united and united in saying no to any kind of violence, because this is not a human violence: it was a beastly violence; it was a violence that has no justification whatsoever; it was a violence that took the breath away from each of us. I don't think there should be any kind of division right now. What I feel like asking with force, aloud, is that in the intention of unity there is also a decisive response to the caliphate of ISIS, which no longer has reason to be protected or not to be struck in the heart, because it must be defeated with determination, especially to bring back that tranquility, that serenity, that security that we all need but above all we have the right to. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-537.ana.u15	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-537.ana.u16	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday 17 November, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.22 p.m.
