ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1758. I would remind you that during yesterday's afternoon sitting the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government took place and the examination of the articles began. Colleagues, pending the opinion of the Budget Commission on the remaining amendments to be examined, our work needs to be briefly suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 9.37 a.m. and resumed at 9.52 p.m.) The session is resumed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u5	I am in favour of amendment 1.0.300, tabled by the Government. I am in favour of the identical amendments 8,205 (text 2), 8,206 (text 2) and 8,207 (text 2), in the text which was reworded in accordance with the proposal made at yesterday's afternoon sitting, of course if reworded as requested by the 5th Commission, with the prospect of a closure in terms of financial cover.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u6	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u7	Senator Cucchetti, do you accept the rewording of amendment 8205 (text 2) requested by the Budget Commission? MUCCHETTI (PD). Yes, Madam President, with regard to amendment 8,207 (text 2). PRESIDENT. - The debate is Does Senator Gualdani accept the rewording of amendment 8206 (text 2) requested by the Budget Commission? Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1.0.300. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pending the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.54 p.m. and resumed at 9.55 p.m.) Let's get back to work. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0,300, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8,205 (text 3), identical to Amendments 8,206 (text 3) and 8,207 (text 3). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8205 (text 3), tabled by Senator Mucchetti and other senators, identical to amendments 8206 (text 3), tabled by Senator Gualdani and other senators, and 8,207 (text 3), tabled by Senator Tarquinio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 8 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 17, on which amendments have already been tabled, on which I would ask the rapporteur to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u8	I am in favour of all the amendments to Article 17.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u9	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 17,0.300 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.0.300 (text 2), tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17,0.301, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.0.302 (text 2), tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 17 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u12	[[Brusio.]] Members who want to get away do so without making too much noise, otherwise Senator Candiani has difficulty in intervening. You start your speech, Senator, so maybe the buzz stops. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we have reached the final vote on the European delegation law 2014 and we are not surprised by the gloom with which the debate that preceded the vote on the amendments took place. If one has to start from an objective and real fact, one cannot fail to take into account how the Government has managed the law of European delegation, and this is the critical part on which the Lega Nord Group does not change its negative opinion about the measure. Madam President, the work in the Commission is carried out in an orderly and constructive manner. What is lacking, however, is the Government's view of the sense of belonging to the European Union and, in this case, the implementation of the law of European delegation. The law of European delegation was first divided by Community law in a way that makes it difficult to see in a comprehensive way the sense of Italy's belonging to the European Union with regard to the obligations imposed by the European Union itself on the transposition of directives rather than... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u13	I really ask everyone, from the left, from the centre and from the right, to lower their voices.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u14	Please continue, Senator Candiani. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Thank you, Madam President, but it does not matter, because this gives the sense and the idea of how much this measure is considered. As I said, everything is based on Law No. 234 of 2012, according to which the Government, pursuant to Article 29, is required to submit to the Chambers, by February 28 of each year, a bill of European delegation with the indication of the reference year and then a second bill, followed by the wording "second semester" by July 31 from the reference year. This allows the whole structure of the country not simply to satisfy the needs, let's say aesthetics, of the Government in transposing the directives but to be able to adapt. At first the Renzi Government could complain that it had received a legacy of arrears to dispose of, but today, May 14, a year and a half after the government's establishment, the only thing we can take note of is that there is no longer a Minister of European Policy (there is a Undersecretary). And the same attention with which the Government faces this provision tells us that care is not so, because we are now in 2015 and we are still talking about competence 2014. Madam President, there is a discrepancy between this same measure and what is happening in the country, and I will explain it immediately. When this provision was presented, it provided for articles, which were then removed gradually because they were cannibalized by other decrees-laws made by the Government. Now I ask myself: in this case, what is the ratio of presenting a law and then extracting pieces of it, making reading more uneven? Let's face it, it's just a formal approval. Then we would like to know from the Government what really is the meaning of our country's membership of the European Union today, because citizens must have awareness and awareness of the costs that Italy bears to belong to the European Union and what the benefits are. Do we want to talk about the common defence policy? Italy participates in Europe, has a common defence policy and should therefore save on the costs of national defence. But are the savings paid back on the school, on the pension? It's not like that. We know that Europe basically does not have a common defence policy. What, then, is the reason? Do we now have a European foreign policy, which gives Italy, like all other countries, representative advantages? This is not the case and President Renzi, after all the formal and not substantial efforts he has made to get Minister Mogherini to represent European foreign policy, must also be given peace. In reality - we have been able to verify this in these same hours with the management of the problem of the landings of illegal immigrants from Libya - Minister Mogherini may be at the limit of the spokesperson of the wishes of the most powerful and strong European countries, but he is certainly not the Minister who synthesises among all and gives a competitive advantage to Italy in foreign policy. Even paradoxically, European foreign policy makes us weaker. Why? It's very simple. What do you expect? Do you expect to obtain a resolution from the UN in order to be able to intervene and block from Libya the influx of illegal immigrants through the landings organized by the hullists? Maybe you ask the UN Security Council for a mandate to go to work in Libya and sink the boats when they have to leave? Maybe you should turn to the same Council in which Russia sits, which has been slapped by the European Union and today, instead, should agree to advantages for a territory that is far away, the Italian one, when we were so distracted about Russian foreign policy when we were talking about Ukraine? We are once again wondering what the sense of real membership of the European Union is. I have to conclude, from what the government is doing, that the point is to have good regulations, pseudo-regulations, that they regulate and regulate. As was said, in a very brilliant and effective way, a few years ago, it regulates how long the cucumber must be, how the vegetables must be made and how the chief train should be dressed on the train. Madam President, it is certainly not trivializing that the content of the law is being diminished, but we take note of what the real substance of the government is today: this is an exquisite act of transposing European directives and regulations. That's it. We have not been able to hear and learn the significance that the Renzi Government gives to Italy's membership of the European Union. And we have not learned this today, even more so, at the European Semester ended. There are no results to be put on the field, because the made in Italy - and I will never stop saying so - has not been protected. And even in this transposition of directives there is nothing to support that made in Italy that you yourself, Madam President, like myself and the other members of the Commission, when you visited the European Union, tried to promote. The difference between us and the government is that we are not interested in a photograph in front of the board; we are interested in the content, we are not interested in the words written with the chalk. And in this regard I bring a paradox precisely of the last hours: President Renzi had himself photographed in front of a blackboard while writing with the chalk. But this was the good time to take over an iPad and show that Italian schools are, instead, excellence in terms of technology. No, it doesn't: it retraces the stereotype of a school made with blackboard and chalk. The same is evident from this law. What is the idea of belonging to the European Union that the Government transmits with this measure? It is simply to accept a regulatory and regulatory transposition that adds bureaucracy to the bureaucracy and does not give competitive value to the country. To those who today are already crowned by the end of the recession I say to pay attention: here it is not a question of making owls, but we must be aware that, in other European countries, that small competitive advantage that we have had from the decrease in the cost of oil has already transferred to the real economy in terms of advantages, reduced costs and increased competitiveness. We do not have this, Madam President. I would like to address Mr Gozi: we need a commitment that is not formal, that does not simply implement provisions because they have to be made. In fact, Europe asks for it, Europe tells us that it could go well with Professor Fornero and Professor Monti in saying: "You have to drink a nice glass of vaseline oil, Europe asks for it." Today, however, the country needs competitiveness, to be serious, to say that if there is a Europe it is the one that gives the opportunity to have a made in Italy protected, not the one that sells our country and lets the Chinese come and take the best pieces of our economy. Madam President, we are not convinced of the method by which the Government has managed this measure, even more than the content of the measure itself. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u17	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, taking a critical position of opposition to the law of European delegation is an arduous operation, because we cannot find a particular political approach or opposition to legislation that must be transposed, or to a Europe in which we participate, to which we belong. However, the fact that we do not have a preconception of opposition to the measure certainly does not prevent us from highlighting what we do not share deeply and which we believe to be wrong in the policy that the Government is also conducting in the field of Community policies. When we talk about these measures, we refer to texts which, with regard to the overall system, have a sneaky attitude. How many times have we been enthusiast for hours, days and weeks of discussion in this House on issues that we consider sensitive and concern health, ethical attitudes to societal problems, or research and experimentation. Sometimes we get excited about the implementation of the internal legal order and we do it with competence and passion, but then comes the law of European delegation, with which we transpose with a certain sufficiency and lightness, perhaps without paying particular attention, measures that really affect and upset the everyday life of our relations, really become important and decisive compared to issues that we consider sensitive. The law of European delegation currently under consideration introduces dozens of norms in the Italian legal order and does so in the most disparate subjects (from transplants to electromagnetic fields, to finance), that is, in many fields on which, if not considered within a simple law of delegation (with which in a single measure we transpose dozens and dozens of provisions), perhaps we would have put more attention and caution. However, in the aftermath of his approval, they immediately have effects on our social body. We must therefore equip ourselves as Parliament to tackle this issue more closely and cross-cuttingly, because it concerns everyone and cannot be political-party, but it is political-national. Today we must raise the problem of the nation Italy, of our country, against Europe, against this complex of norms and attitudes for which we must assert our reasons. Sometimes, in fact, Europe appears with a gray face, like that of the British Minister who yesterday was able to say that he has no interest in migrants from the Mediterranean or like that other exponent of the Netherlands. Instead, we must assert other faces, other attitudes, that is, ours, those of the Italians who have different faces, modes and attitudes. But in the end in this competition, which must then lead to a single European policy, who wins and who loses, since in political choices and in the adoption of a measure there are always those who win and who loses? For example, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, in all of this, it is our agriculture, our economic system that we are losing in this harmful dichotomy. It is not possible for us to continue to adopt one law of European delegation after another, measures which serve to promote the European internal market, not noticing how all this can damage our internal economy. Parliament, in particular this branch of itss, has repeatedly urged the Government to review its neighbourhood policies, which are killing our agriculture: it has been done cross-cuttingly by all political groups. We do not want to be protectionist, we do not want new duties to protect our cherry tomato, rather than our greenhouse production or our milk. We do not want a protectionist policy, but we want a Community policy which, when it comes to dealing with the neighbouring countries of the Mediterranean rather than with the countries of the East or, in the light of the new Free Trade Treaty, with the States of America, can take this into account. It is not only a question of international prestige, it is not only the fact of being there, of being strong and of being powerful, but being a "political centerpiece" will reverberate directly on our economy, on our market sectors, precisely those with which on the various turntables it is said that Italy will recover and succeed in creating new employment. If the production sectors are immediately penalised and killed by a Community policy which does not take account of this reality, we cannot be happy with the content of the European delegation law. We will vote on this law, because being European is part of our foreign and internal policy: being European is a consubstantial fact compared to our being Italian. However, we cannot fail to invite the Government, to the sides of this measure, to greater precision and to greater commitment so that, in the concert between the Undersecretary with delegation to European policies and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the requirements of our production system can be respected. These are precisely the reasons why we feel far from Europe: we feel it as a stepmother, not only distant, but also pernicious for the daily life of our relations. What then, Madam President, about the choice of quotas made by the European Union to tackle the problem of immigration? I want to take advantage of this moment to say that perhaps a light of wisdom that can lead to a turning point is to go and follow the phenomenon of immigration where it is generated, on the African continent: I believe that going there is the only choice. The other choice, the one that binds to quotas, apart from the ugly and unpleasant use of the term "quota" refers to human beings and people, also affects us from the point of view of our feelings. The problem of immigration must certainly be tackled with the idea that action should be taken in the countries of origin. Having said that, Madam President - and I conclude with this - we must work to make Italians, not governments, not representatives of our regions, but Italians, as part of a wider people, the European people. We can achieve this by making good laws, representing Italian interests on the European stage with greater strength and determination. On this issue we will always be close to the Government and its initiatives. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u18	We greet the students and students of the Liceo Scientifico (Liceo Scientifico) "Primo Levi" in Montebelluna, in the province of Treviso. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u21	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, the law of European delegation is a law of delegation that entrusts the government with the task of transposing Community legislation in order to avoid - as we have already said - possible sanctions, but above all to allow our country - at least this should be the spirit - to be within a regulatory framework common to the other countries that constitute the European Union; to homogenize, increasingly, the action of the economic system; to regulate in a more uniform way social relations; to develop common paths of defence and security, and above all to allow civil, moral, political, as well as economic and social development, to the whole of our continent. This is the objective and on this, we who are committed to supporting a path in which there is "more Europe" - that is, more awareness of belonging to a whole, to an institutional dimension of a federalist type, even if in the process of being fully defined - do not just want more Europe, but we are also committed to calling for another Europe: a more politically sound, democratically more convinced Europe, capable of tackling and solving the major problems affecting the peoples of the countries of the Union, but also affecting the destiny of the world. Therefore, a Europe with a focus on the environment, the need to save the planet and ourselves from the tragedies that the wretched violence against nature often determines, the need to save civil coexistence, peace, not only within our continent but above all in relations with the countries of other continents that live in difficult contradictions, conditions of absolute difficulty, precariousness of peace and that are afflicted by the violence of need and war. We therefore want another Europe, which goes in that direction, and, as we want it, we do not back down from the responsibility of being within a shared path that goes in that direction more decisively than has been done to date. For this reason, we shall be voting in favour of this measure, calling on the Government, the majority and the Democratic Party no longer to interpret Europe as it has been interpreted to date. "We have been told by Europe," he repeats, as if it were an external body, a power that afflicts and complicates the existence of European citizens and those of our national community, a subject that imposes unbearable rules for different categories of people and does so in a bureaucratic, incomprehensible and often even cynical way; not a Europe of multinationals, so we must poison everyone, to the point that in Italian restaurants we no longer find an apple, but only pineapple, nor do we find an orange picked from a tree of our citrus groves, but melon from faraway countries. This is because we do not defend our culture that is also our economy, the agricultural one and the one that comes from it, the transformation and the conservation of the agricultural product, but also the valorization of our peculiarities, not only gastronomic, but cultural. This country, which has great potential, in this respect, is the home of cultural heritage and an environment that is not only to be preserved for those who live it daily, as an Italian citizen, but for those who want to live it even for a short time, in the history of their lives, as a visitor. We want Europe not because it must help us to contain migratory flows (which will not be arrested either through bombs or through policies of control of the avoided borders, because they have reasons that go beyond the ability of States to prevent them from developing and that we Westerners have also urged), we want Europe because it must help us to confront the other realities of the world, especially those most in crisis, in order to find the ways of life that we have traditionally proposed to the rest of the world: attention to work, development, person and life, first of all. It is the message of social Christianity, as well as of socialist solidarity, which has better developed and more fully recorded on our continent: it is a political and cultural heritage that we must not abandon at all. We will therefore vote for this measure, especially with a view to finally taking active action on the proposal - I say this to the Government - in order to improve, and not suffer, the policies of building the European Union and also challenge those who have made it a conservative management, through equally conservative economic policies, which we have not had the capacity to combat until now, but we have suffered. We are against the troikes, i.e. I am counting the control of life by the accountants; politics removes accountantism and promotes man's capacity for invention and progress. It is not possible to undergo mechanisms only of a monetarist or financial nature. The economy is becoming better transformed the living conditions of European citizens, improving the quality of human intervention to exploit the resources available on our continent. Therefore, I say to the Government that the main point of the Juncker plans cannot be the "profitable profitability" (this is the term used) or the bankability of the projects, but the ability of those projects to intervene in the economic processes to enhance the quality of human work and also the quality of the resources available on this continent, and not found elsewhere. That is why we shall vote in favour, Madam President, by challenging the Government to accept all the comments made here and in the general debate. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Caleo and Scilipoti Isgrò.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u24	Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the final approval of a very important measure, whose provisions, of a heterogeneous nature, are necessary in order to adapt the Italian legal order to the European legal order. I would like to stress that thanks to parliamentary activity these measures have been improved and, above all, how slowly Italy is normalizing its activity of transposing Community obligations, which has always been a weak point of our country in the past years, with serious repercussions in terms of infringement procedures and sanctions for Italy. The plurality of the contents of this measure derives from the heterogeneous nature of the law of European delegation which provides for the transposition of even 40 directives, from the most dated 2010/53/EU, on the standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplants, up to the latest Directive 2014/86/EU amending Directive 2011/61/EU on the common tax regime applicable to parent companies and subsidiaries of different Member States. In the course of the examination in the referent, the number of European directives that the Government is delegated to adopt with own implementing decrees has been enriched. They will implement the Directives on building an infrastructure for alternative fuels, GMOs, and on the cross-border exchange of information on road safety infringements. The other Directives address a wide range of issues, including collective copyright management, tobacco products, the European criminal investigation order, e-invoicing in public procurement, and the return of cultural goods unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State. An extremely important passage of this provision is the insertion of a biennial delegation to the Government for the enactment of provisions with criminal or administrative penalties for violations of obligations arising from directives implemented in a regulatory or administrative manner and for violations of regulations of the European Union published on the date of entry into force of this law. The need for such delegation stems from the fact that, both in the case of the implementation of directives in a regulatory or administrative manner and in the case of Community regulations, there must always be a primary source of internal legislation capable of introducing sanctions of a criminal or administrative nature in national law, where there is a need to repress any transgressions of the precepts contained in the above mentioned legislative acts. The introduction of a well-defined sanctioning mechanism allows the real implementation of European provisions, as Italy was very often not lacking in the simple transposition of Community legislation but above all in the real ability to implement it, due to a repressive system lacking or completely non-existent. Turning to the substance of the measure, I would like to highlight a number of crucial points. Article 5 provides for delegation to the Government for the implementation of the Directive on the approximation of the provisions of the Member States relating to the processing, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products. These specific principles and guiding criteria for the implementation of the Directive provide for the pursuit of the objective, taking into account the specific characteristics of tobacco products, of preventing excessive supply and the spread of smoking among children; the choice of the general warning on potential risks arising from smoking, in order to ensure a wide level of health protection; the application, for non-combustible inhalation tobacco, with reference to producers who so request, of legislation consistent with the rules of the new generation Tobacco Products Directive, in order to recognise the potential reduced risk of tobacco products. Certain times are foreseen for the adaptation of the supply chain to the provisions of the new legislation in order to avoid that the same can suffer the negative economic consequences from the change of regime. I would now like to talk about Article 7, which has been amended during the work of the European Union's Political Commission (to which I warmly thank you for the fruitful work done by the contact person). It includes the delegation rule for the transposition into national law of the new rules on the consolidation and resolution of the credit sector and financial intermediaries. In particular, the new rules and rules on bail-in, i.e. the mechanism for the exercise by a resolution authority of devaluation and conversion powers in relation to the liabilities of a credit institution subject to resolution, are expected to apply from 2016. It has been pointed out that the implementation of the delegation, since 2016, will also have to identify the specific ad hoc modalities of implementation of the bail-in with reference to the cooperative corporate forms. The Bank of Italy has been designated as a national resolution authority, with the mandatory and timely exchange of information with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which must give its place before the implementation of decisions that have a direct impact on the budget, or systemic implications. Finally, I would like to talk about Article 13. In my opinion, at this moment Italy has had major problems with regard to the environmental impact. As amended by the contact person, Article 13 sets out the specific guiding principles and criteria for the exercise of the delegation for the implementation, in national law, of the Directive on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public and private projects. The aim is to incorporate principles of simplification, harmonisation and rationalisation of environmental impact assessment procedures, including in relation to coordination and integration with certain procedures for issuing environmental opinions and authorisations. At the same time, the aim is to strengthen the quality of the environmental impact assessment procedure, aligning this procedure with the principles of smart regulation, coherence and synergies with other European and national legislation and policies. The objective set out above is also pursued through the revision and rationalisation of the sanctioning system, in order to define effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions and to allow greater effectiveness in the prevention of infringements. As can be seen from this brief illustration of the main provisions of the measure, they are all rules that have a profound impact on the economic and social fabric, as well as on the daily lives of citizens. Most of them are economic measures. This is not to be underestimated. The European Community was born in the aftermath of the war, with the aim of creating a single market and ensuring the movement of goods, services, goods and workers. However, the economic aspect must be interpreted as the basis on which to build something deeper. Harmonisation of legislation affecting extremely important areas of citizens' daily lives cannot, in short, be an end in itself. Finally, it will have to develop into something deeper: from economic and monetary union we will have to move gradually towards a political union; the famous union of the peoples of Europe, which in Altiero Spinelli's vision would have guaranteed peace, prosperity, but above all a role as the protagonist of Europe, or rather of the European Union, in the world. Above all at a time of crisis such as today's, the United States of Europe is the objective to be pursued, not without a few problems and great mediation efforts, in order to give the peoples of Europe a common policy both in the foreign field and in defence policies. The achievement of this objective, to be pursued through small steps, certainly passes through the harmonisation of regulations, which in the long term will ensure an interconnection of the economic and social fabric at European level so developed that it considers the transition to political union an obligatory step. Therefore, as convinced Europeanists, I am voting in favour of the People's Area Group. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u27	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, in addition to seeing on this occasion how every pretext is good for doing business on its own and to satisfy its power groups in a completely cross-cutting way (which is demonstrated today by the desire to push the production of GMOs in Italy once again), the greatest of the concerns of the Movimento 5 Stelle Group on this measure concerns the enslavement of the European Union in an absolutely instrumental way. As always, Europe is asking for it to be used to exploit the decrees of this Government, while, when it comes to regulations entirely related to the needs and needs of the citizens and the Italian people, everything is left in this forum. Also this time, as in previous European delegation laws (which also saw last year for the first time a text bis), it is not so much the delegation that is granted to the Government to worry us, but the inability of the Government to comply with the transposition in times that allow these directives to be effective. In fact, it tends to be, when we ratify, that a directive amending the previous directive or even society has undergone such and so many changes that normalizing becomes practically useless. Being acts from the European Union, we are not even too critical of the type of delegation, since the substantive criteria are almost all imposed, so the government cannot do as it pleases, as on other occasions. Therefore, more than an explanation of vote, mine and ours is an appeal, aimed at a transposition that, on the one hand, is fair to the citizens and, on the other, is really to protect our country, through norms that appear strongly Germanocentric. I say this because this year's European delegation law covers 60% of the financial markets, their regulation and relations within the banking system. This is what we are asking for to be implemented, with a specific focus on a system of aid to small and medium-sized enterprises, a quid to defend against the overpowering economic power of well-known European forces. On the other hand, as regards the other provisions, we ask that, instead of going to impoverish and lighten the responsibility, as happened in the decree on public administration and in the "unblocking-undoing-destroying Italy," the references related to concessions and authorisations are really a tool of control against the degradation of the territory or public health. I am, of course, referring to those environmental standards which Europe imposes on us and asks us, but which, today as yesterday, in Italy we always find the way around. Our vote on this measure will therefore be abstaining, hoping that the Government will also accept the suggestions that have come from other forces, which will also vote in favour. The Government will have to pay particular attention to the implementing decrees and not play the theater that has unfortunately been done in this House on issues relating to GMOs. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u30	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the law of European delegation, together with European law, represents the instrument through which Italy, as a Member State of the European Union, transposes and adapts to internal law the acts adopted by the bodies of the Union, in compliance with the so-called descending phase. Specifically, it should be remembered that the law of European delegation consists of a set of legislative delegations which Parliament confers on the Government, in order to amend the internal legislation in accordance with European acts. The law for approval consists of 17 articles and Annexes A and B, which contain 57 Regulations, Directives and Framework Decisions, relating to different cases. These are many sectors, ranging from banking, agriculture, justice and health. In yesterday's debate we discussed a number of points on which a heated debate was opened: I am referring, for example, to the issue of GMOs, on which the debate in the short term should be further deepened, as promised by the Government. Hence the complexity inherent in the subject and the need to transfer the delegation to the Government, for a faster implementation of the law under consideration. I must stress, however, that sometimes the Government, when making the required changes, does not respect the limits and requirements contained in the specific directives or in other Community acts, but goes beyond that. It follows that the rules in our legal system are sometimes more restrictive and stringent than those in the European Parliament. This is the phenomenon known as gold-plating, i.e. the introduction of additional and additional obligations and charges compared to those defined at European level. This, as is well imagined, results in a disadvantage that harms the recipients of the rules, namely our citizens, our families, our entrepreneurs and our companies. In this regard, it should be recalled that the competent Commission has accepted certain amendments, including those of Forza Italia, which go in this direction and which represent common sense rules, aimed at obtaining a translation in accordance with the will and parameters of the European legislator and aimed at not distorting the regulatory framework with more restrictive directives than those of Europe. With regard to the work carried out in the Commission, I welcome the inclusion of the agenda presented by Forza Italia, which commits the Government to indicate in the Economic and Financial Document the sums that Italy is sentenced to pay each year, with reasons attached, for failure to implement or for the violation of provisions of the European Union. For this reason, too, I would like to announce the responsible vote in favour of Forza Italia, with the precise aim of speeding up the parliamentary process and reducing the number of sanctions, which at present - as I recall - are 92 - too many! - 30% of which concerns sensitive sectors for our economy, such as the environment and transport. On behalf of the Forza Italia Group, therefore, the invitation to the Government to present further draft laws that eliminate the remaining ones is explicit. I also hope that the same obligations that exist for Italy in the descending phase will be paid by Europe for the upward stage, namely: to review what concerns immigration policy, starting with the Dublin III Regulation and to keep its commitments to the Member States - including Italy - on the flexibility of internal budgets, ensuring that the adjustment of accounts, if necessary, resulting from the Constitutional Court's judgment, does not lead to a reversal of the agreed commitments, thereby frustrating the timid - very timid - signal of recovery of our economy and employment. However, this is a separate speech, which we shall see shortly in this House. For today, I repeat the responsible vote of our Group in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u33	COCIANCICH (PD). Madam President, it is my intention to make a short speech, so I immediately announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Commission, its President, Mr Vannino Chiti, and the rapporteur, Mrs Cecilia Guerra, who seem to me to have created an overall climate favourable to dialogue and confrontation, and this was also seen by the fact that there have also been convergent consensus on this measure on political forces which do not belong to the majority. I think it is important to stress the great work done by the Government, which has reduced the dispute with the European Union by 25%. This delegation law, in fact, as has already been mentioned, transposes as many as 56 directives and 9 framework decisions: this is an important point because the reduction of litigation makes our country acquire credibility. Many people today have complained that we should go to Europe with a high head and be more incisive, but if we do not regain a strong credibility - which goes through the reduction of litigation - we will never be able to achieve those results that many people want to hear. These are concrete facts, and the facts are hard-headed. They are the bricks on which, after decades of lack of weight and credibility in Europe, today we reconstruct a significant weight of our country. I would just like to make one comment, because I believe that yesterday the speech on the merits of Senator Ginetti was very broad and sharp on many points that characterize this delegation law. The point on which I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, is simply the relationship between Commission 14a and Commission 5a, when we have reference rules which I think are at risk of not having precise coordination. I am referring to constitutional rules. The delegation law, in fact, is one of the obligations that our country is required to comply with Articles 10, 11 and 117 of the Constitution. Articles 10 and 11, moreover, are part of what are the fundamental principles of our order, so they have an absolute value. I remind myself of the first paragraph of Article 10: The Italian legal order complies with the rules of international law generally recognised as such. Article 11 recognises that there may be limitations of sovereignty on a level playing field with other States, and that is what happens under the Treaties with the European Union. Article 117 recalls that the legislative power is exercised by the Regions and the State in compliance with the constraints arising from Community law and international standards. Therefore, the transposition of directives is constitutionally important and guaranteed. Today, in some situations, there is a kind of dialectic, which is not always serene, between our legal system (Articles 10, 11 and 117 of the Constitution) and the constraints arising from Article 81 of the Constitution itself which oblige us to have a financial coverage of our provisions. I wonder if these obligations of financial cover can reach the point of limiting, conditioning or even excluding the transposition of directives that our country, on the basis of these fundamental principles, is obliged to transpose. It would be different if the obligation to transpose was assessed, in accordance with Article 81, at the time when the implementing decrees were issued, i.e. the implementing legislative decrees. In that case, there are expenditure obligations that can be assessed, evaluated and possibly improved or amended, but that the same reception, the same implementation of the directives can be subordinated to a trade union by the Budget Commission seems to me a point that would deserve at least more in-depth examination. In the hope of this reflection, I conclude and repeat the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u34	I note that the rapporteur has tabled the C2 coordination proposal, which has already been distributed and which is intended to be presented. Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall put it to the vote. It's approved. We shall therefore proceed to the final vote. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u37	CHITI (PD). Madam President, I would just like to make two comments, both of which are non-formal. The first is a thank you to Senator Guerra for her role as rapporteur; to the Senators of the Commission, and she now reminded Senator Cociancich of the fact that there is a climate of cooperation and confrontation in the Commission that looks at merit and not only at legitimate political positions; to the Government with which we have a positive interlocation, and in particular to the Secretary of State Gozi; to all the collaborators and to the secretariat of the Commission. The second issue concerns a subject which was resolved yesterday on one aspect, but which I would like to pay attention to. On this occasion we found ourselves more explicitly faced with a problem that may arise between European legislation and national legislation, as regards the transposition of European directives. It is quite clear that not transposing the European directives represents a vulnus as well as a cost to our country, since an infringement procedure would result. At the same time, there are coverage guarantee issues. Yesterday, the 5th Commission, applying some directives that must be transposed and paragraph 2 of Article 17 of the Law of Accounting, established a point that, as regards the transposition of directives from the point of view of Parliament, must be made constant: considering that not all implementing decrees in the process of transposition can be clear the cost, if the Rotation Fund available for transposition is not sufficient, when implementing the decrees, the Government must make a legislative procedure that guarantees the greater coverage. This will allow directives to be transposed at all times; compatibility will be assessed later, but directives can be transposed. This solves one problem, but it doesn't solve another that we need to clarify and ask the government as well. Since European legislation has a priority over national legislation, the Government and Parliament cannot be indifferent to it and must always be able to have sufficient funding from the fund to implement it or, in any case, have to ensure that it is sufficient if there is a shortage. This is important and the Undersecretary may deny me, but I think the figures are accurate. At this moment - as Senator Cociancich recalled - we have made an effort to transpose all the backward directives. Our problems are not in the transposition of directives, but they come mainly from their implementation today, because we transpose them (and we will transpose them even faster), but the problem is that they must be implemented. And the issue that blocks implementation is sometimes national (the resources or times available for decrees), sometimes it is of the Regions, especially as far as the environment is concerned. These are two shortcomings that we must commit ourselves to overcoming. Madam President, I was asking you that all this, which is compatible and consistent with the existing legislative provisions, should become practice; therefore, no more comparison between the Commission, but ordinary practice of our way of working. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Anitori, Mauro Giovanni and Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u38	The remarks made by Senator Chiti are undoubtedly worthy of further study. Only in advance, the Presidency notes that it is possible to interpret the rules referred to in Articles 81 and 117 (1) of the Constitution, respectively, in a systematic and non-conflicting way, on the basis of two general considerations. The first: compliance with the constraints arising from the Community legal system - a formulation which includes and is not limited to the implementation of the directives - referred to in the first paragraph of Article 117 of the Constitution, can and must decline according to the criteria laid down in Article 81 and it is therefore the task and responsibility of the Government and Parliament to seek and identify solutions consistent with the constitutional system as a whole. The second is that the institutions have long been aware of the need to understand the regulatory scope of Article 81 of the Constitution as an element of guidance and limitation to the action of the public authorities precisely with a view to an assessment of compatibility with the same constraints arising from Community law and international obligations. As a result, the issue raised is not only a matter of a strict regulatory sign, but also of an interpretative and systematic nature and as such imposes a clear responsibility on each institution and on each of us in terms of constitutional consistency and reasonableness.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u39	Senators and Senators, the Conference of Leaders approved by a majority changes and additions to the current calendar and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 18 June. In the afternoon session of Tuesday, 19 May, the draft law on environmental crime, as amended by the Chamber of Deputies, will be examined. The deadline for tabling amendments is 2 p.m. today. The timetable also provides for the possible follow-up of the unfinished topics and the discussion of the reports of the Committees of Inquiry on intimidation of local administrators and on the phenomenon of accidents at work. On the afternoon of Thursday 21 May the question time will take place with the Minister of Defense. The Assembly will not hold meetings in the week preceding the regional and administrative elections of 31 May and 1 June. The Permanent Commissions will be able to convene on the basis of the requirements of the respective timetables of the work. The House will meet again at 11 a.m. on Wednesday 3 June. The timetable includes, in addition to the possible follow-up of the unfinished topics, the Italy-US Agreement on the exchange of tax information, other ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Affairs Commission, as well as draft laws amending the crime of cowardice of the President of the Republic. In the week from 9 to 11 June will be examined the bill on disciplinary responsibility of the magistrates; the delegation for the reform of the confidences and the documents defined by the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity. The question time will take place at the afternoon sitting on Thursday 11 June. The calendar of the week from 16 to 18 June provides: the decree-law on the relaunch of the agricultural sector, where approved by the Chamber of Deputies; the draft constitutional law amending the Statute of Friuli-Venezia Giulia in the matter of local authorities; the draft law on social agriculture. Motions on the protection of children's rights in the territories controlled by ISIS and Boko Haram, and RC car insurance rates will also be discussed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u40	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the proceedings of the Senate for the months April, May and June 2015: - Drawing of law n. 1345-B - Provisions in the matter of crimes against the environment (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies, modified by the Senate and again modified by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1259 - Delegate to the Government for the reform of the system of confids (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of constitutional law n. 1289 and connected - Amendments to the Constitutional Law 31 January 1963, n. 1 (Special Statute of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region), in the matter of local authorities, of electorate passive to the regional elections and of popular legislative initiative (First Resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 1568 and related - Provisions in the matter of social chamber (Ap)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u41	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted by a majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable until 18 June: [[Thursday 14 May ant. h. 9,30-14 - Following bill n. 1758 - Law of European delegation 2014 (final vote with the presence of the quorum) Thursday 14 May pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] [[Tuesday, May 19 pom h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 1345-B - Crimes against the environment (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies, modified by the Senate and again modified by the Chamber of Deputies) - Possible followed unfinished topics - Doc. XXII- bis, point 1 - Final report of the Commission of Inquiry into intimidation against local administrators - Doc. XXII- bis, point 2 - Interim report on the activity of the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work Wednesday 20 " h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 21 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 21 May pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister of Defence]] Amendments to draft law No 1345-B (Delicts against the Environment) will have to be tabled by 2 p.m. on Thursday 14 May. The Assembly will not hold its session in the week preceding the regional and administrative elections of 31 May and 1 June. The Permanent Commissions will be able to convene on the basis of the requirements of the respective timetables of the work. [[Wednesday 3 June ant. h. 11-13,30 - Possible follow-up of unfinished topics - Drawing of law n. 1719 - Italy-US Agreement on the automatic exchange of tax information (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs - Drawing of law n. 667 and connected - Changes of crime of cowardice of the President of the Republic " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 4 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 4 June pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to draft law no. 1719 (Italian-US Agreement on the automatic exchange of tax information) and 667 and related (Changes of crime of cowardice of the President of the Republic) will have to be presented by 1 p.m. on Thursday 21 May. [[Tuesday, June 9 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Possible follow-up of unfinished topics - Drawing of law n. 112 - Disciplinary responsibility of the magistrates - Drawing of law n. 1259 - Delegate for the reform of the confids (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Documents defined by the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunity Wednesday 10 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 11 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 11 June pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] Amendments to draft law no. 112 (Disciplinary responsibility of judges) and 1259 (Delega per la riformazione dei confidi) will have to be presented by 1 p.m. on Thursday 4 June. [[Tuesday, June 16 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Eventually followed unconcluded arguments - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 51, re-launching agricultural sector (Ove approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade on 5 July) - Drawing of constitutional law n. 1289 and connected - Changes Statute Friuli-Venezia Giulia in the matter of local authorities (First resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 1568 and connected - Social agriculture (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Motion n. 379, Di Biagio, on the protection of the rights of children in the territories controlled by ISIS and Boko Haram - Motion n. 245, Romano, on insurance rates RC car Wednesday 17 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 18 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 18 June pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The deadline for amendments to the draft law n.... (Decree-Law n. 51, relaunching the agricultural sector) will be set in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. Amendments to Constitutional Law No 1289 and related (Modifications of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Statute in the field of local authorities) and to Law No 1568 and related (Social Agriculture) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 11 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u44	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to make a proposal to amend the timetable. In the week from 16 to 18 June, we propose that the draft legislation on guaranteed minimum income and citizenship income should finally come into question in this House. The question, which has been raised several times by the 5 Star Movement Group and ours, has been referred on several occasions to the subsequent meetings of the Conference of Leaders. In fact, we also called for a specific commitment from President Grasso to speed up work within the 11th The Commission, in order to ensure that this issue, which, as we have seen, is of great interest not only to all the citizens but also to the House, can finally come to the debate. It is not a marginal issue, quite the opposite; it is a subject that could at last affect a large number of people. I would like to remind you that we count nine million people who are below or below the poverty line and we think that it would really be an important response from the Senate, for an income that could be defined, as the Free Association rightly says, of dignity. I therefore propose that this amendment be included in the week from 16 to 18 June. The other issue - I see in the House the President of the 7th Commission - is that you have just announced that the Senate Chamber will not sit in the week before the regional and administrative elections (the House will also do so in practice, since there are very important elections in seven regions), so to give the senators the opportunity to contribute to the election campaign. I am here to point out to you, with a rather controversial note, that it is expected (at least as it emerged from the meeting of the Conference of Leaders) that the 7th Commission will be able to convene. It seems that the House will approve the school bill perhaps on May 20th, so honestly I can't understand this rush. As this is such an important subject, which involves not only the members of the Commission, we should give the opportunity to all those who are interested in taking part in the debate in the 7th Commission; but once again we always want to make the forced forces and accelerations, of which we honestly do not really feel the need, because this certainly does not create a peaceful climate of discussion and deepening on a subject that, as you know, is affecting so many families, teachers and the whole world of the school and not just because the school is a question that structurally concerns the future of our country. I would therefore like to raise this issue again here in this House because I am asking, as we said in the 7th Commission's Bureau, that the Commission should also observe the pause provided for all the work of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u47	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, I would also like to propose a change to the timetable. I have seen that the final report by the Committee of Inquiry on intimidation of local administrators and the interim report on the work carried out by the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work is due to be discussed; instead of those two arguments, I would ask that the motion of censure against Mr Alfano be included on Wednesday 20 May and that Mr Giannini be rejected on Thursday 21. I would also ask that Question No 267 on the Indesit case be included in the session of the inspection union on Thursday 21 May, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Rules of Procedure. I would also ask that in the week from 16 to 18 June - and in more than a month's time - the draft law on citizenship income should be included in the agenda. As we said at the Conference of the Leaders, we are prepared to withdraw all requests for a hearing from President Sacconi in order to speed up the process. We have more than a month, so it does not seem to me that the moon is being asked: in one month we can set the deadline for amendments and bring this measure to the House, which is objectively the most important and indispensable measure for citizens at this time. Finally, Mr President, allow me to make a personal complaint. I was about to miss the meeting of the Conference of Leaders because, when I showed up at 10 a.m., the College of Quaestors was still in progress. I expected the Presidency to interrupt the sitting of this House, as usual, in order to allow the Conference of Leaders to take place. I got here late today. I hope that in the future at least it will be said when the Conference of Leaders is due to be held and that the sitting of this House will be suspended. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u49	I take note of that last remark and I understand.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u52	AIROLA (M5S). I would like to speak very quickly on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, we are already on the order of business: we are considering proposals to change the timetable. Would you like to make another proposal in this regard? AIROLA (M5S). I just want to remind you and the House that oppositions are entitled to see the debate on their own draft law scheduled every two months. This has never happened in two years. I remember that as a Holding Company I had obtained the calendarization of the bill on citizenship income, after two years of rubbing off any right of oppositions to simply do their job. I demand, therefore, that you keep your words true and respect the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. You've recorded, haven't you, President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, don't worry. AIROLA (M5S). I worry a lot about it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u53	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, tabled by Senator De Petris, which is identical to one of the questions referred to the proposed amendment by Senator Marton. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, put forward by Senator Marton, specifically concerning the calendarization of the motion of no confidence against Minister Alfano and Minister Giannini, as well as the questioning of the Indesit case. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u54	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1261 and 1620. The report has already been printed and distributed. The President of the 1st Commission, Senator Finocchiaro, asked for action to supplement it, replacing the rapporteur, Senator Palermo.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u55	, f. f. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the text of the measure which we are now debating in this House is the result, on the one hand, of a very detailed work of inquiry which was carried out by the Commission on the basis of two draft laws, No 1261, on the initiative of Senator Ferrara Elena and other senators, and No 1620, on the initiative of Senator Mazzoni. I would like to remind you that this issue has been at the heart of the work of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights in the Senate. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u56	Excuse me, Senator Finocchiaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u57	I would ask colleagues in this House to lower their voices. Please, senator. FOLLOW-UP, f.f. rapporteur. The interest thus expressed by the Senate, which is the interest of the individual senators who signed the bill and of the extraordinary Commission itself for the protection and promotion of human rights, stems from a very high attention in our country towards cyberbullying, also because of some tragic facts that have been consumed. For this reason, it has been considered to carry out a specific regulatory intervention on the phenomenon of cyberbullying and not also of bullying, which can be and is dealt with in other ways, with other measures provided for by the law and criminal law. The legislative action put to the attention of the House is primarily aimed at the interests of children and, secondly, strictly outside the area of criminal law. I stress this fact because, as you know, politics, driven by an emotional wave that comes on in the country when some phenomenon occurs, is often tempted to take refuge in the criminal instrument, more emotional on a symbolic level but often fails to grasp the complexity and quality of the phenomenon and to face it fully and completely. The first fact present in the proposed law, resulting from this deepening, is a definition of cyberbullying, which identifies with those aggressive and intentional actions carried out with a distorted use of new technologies or by a single person or, as more and more often happens, by a group and which aim to strike and harm a peer who is unable to defend himself. These actions, among other things, have the characteristic of recurrence, so they prolong over time, thus amplifying not only the mechanisms proper to bullying but also that condition of marginalization and victimization typical of this phenomenon. I would like to brief my fellow Members on the size and quality of the phenomenon. Today, in our country, the protagonists of cyberbullying phenomena are young people aged between 10 and 16 years, who have higher than average computer skills and who, above all, show a clear inability to realize the seriousness of the facts committed and especially the offensive capacity of the bullistic message. According to a recent survey carried out by IPSOS for Save the Children, 23% of children 18 years old go from five to ten hours a day on the Internet, 8 percent are even connected 24 hours a day, 44 percent do not use a fixed location but different tools that are in the availability of 85 percent of under 18. All this usually happens in the absence of supervision by an adult and even in the absence of awareness about the instrument used. 72 percent of the children in this age group in turn feel the threat of cyberbullying. Therefore, according to data provided by IPSOS, at least four out of ten youngsters interviewed are involved in this phenomenon and 5% speak of it as a regular and regular experience. It is clear that it is necessary to enter the phenomenon, because cyberbullying makes what appears and exists only virtually real. It therefore makes real, in the perception of victims and passive subjects, a looming threat and a demolition of personality, which very often refers to differences that can be ethnic, sex, sexual orientation, geographical origin, childhood or physical disability. All this, which a conscious adult perceives exclusively in his virtual being, for those who attend the Network and are victims of cyberbullying translates into a concrete threat and a concrete reduction of his personality, identity and psychological balance. To all this obviously corresponds also a certain difficulty of the children to reveal that they have been victimized through cyberbullying, a bit because of lack of confidence, a little because of ignorance of the tools that can be activated, a little because of the omertous silence that binds the attendees of the Network and also, as often happens in cases of attacks on the personality, out of shame, so they do not talk about it neither with the teachers, nor with the adults, nor with the parents. It seems clear that, in the face of a phenomenon of this complexity, the merit of the bill is to have pretermed the use of criminal sanctions, to instead move to devise an overall strategy of contrast to cyberbullying, which includes an educational activity through direct confrontation with children, above all in schools, and the valorization of the positive use of the Network, which is certainly an important tool for the growth of minors and whose potentialities must be used knowing, however - let me use this expression - the instructions for their correct use. After that, it is also necessary to offer families the tools to be able to intercept the discomfort caused by this phenomenon and to be helped to support the child in the activity of denunciation, also having competent interlocutors to operate against both the victim and the children who implement episodes of cyberbullying. Similarly, the school needs to provide young people with the necessary skills for proper use of the Network, creating guidelines and good practices within a structured system. If teachers, on the one hand, are sentries to intercept the phenomenon, on the other, they are also an indispensable point of reference, to which the children must know that they can turn for help. As we know and as I said before, our system is not without experience or instruments at all. I would just like to remind you that in 2007 the Minister of Education set up a green number and observers at the level of regional school offices; there is a site within the national campaign against bullying; the postal police have always been particularly committed on this side; the Government has accepted an agenda promoted by the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights on this issue, which identified in the school one of the strengths from which to move; the Ministry of Education has announced the adoption of a plan of education for the use of the Network; training activities are being carried out for teachers. However, the important thing is that it is all these initiatives and wills that are brought back within a comprehensive strategic framework, allowing monitoring of the effects of the policies adopted as a whole. The basic text adopted is that of the draft law at the first signature of my colleague Elena Ferrara and consists in outlining an integrated strategy of action aimed at protecting victims, creating new and specific procedures and institutes, to raise the level of protection for children and young people. In fact, we are also talking about children, and not just teenagers. The starting point, as I said at the outset, is a definition of cyberbullying that has as its purpose, naturally and predominant, to isolate a minor or a group of minors, putting into practice an abuse, a harmful attack and their ridicule. In Article 2, a specific simplified procedure shall be established before the Data Protection Supervisor, which shall enable each child under age or the parents of the minor victim to obtain enhanced protection from the Authority, through the adoption of injunctions and prescriptive measures, guaranteeing the dignity of the child and his/her defence against any form of violence. Article 3 establishes a kind of steering booth or technical table, - with the aim of preparing the integrated action plan for prevention and contrast - which involves several authorities; the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Education, University and Research, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economic Development, the Ministry of Health, the Italian National Association of Municipalities (ANCI), the Guarantor for the protection of personal data, the Guarantor for Childhood and Adolescence, the Committee for the application of the code of self-regulation of the media and minors and non-governmental organisations, as well as representatives of student associations and parents. The establishment of the Monitoring Committee seems important to me because it is assigned the task of identifying the standard procedures and formats for these reports referred to in Article 2 (1) and of adopting a quality mark for those providers of electronic communications services and in any case manufacturers of electronic devices participating in the projects developed by the technical tables. Article 4 provides for the adoption by the Ministry of Education, University and Research of guidelines for the prevention and contrast of cyberbullying in schools. These guidelines include, first of all, the training of school staff, the promotion of an active role of students, the provision of support and re-education measures for the children involved and an effective governance system. It is specified that this guideline should not result in new or higher burdens for public finance. In addition, we have repeatedly asked the Minister for Education in the course of our work, who has guaranteed the existence and the possibility of using resources that are specifically earmarked for this without breaking the limits of budgetary constraints. In addition, it is planned to promote the publication of notices for the financing of projects of particular interest, as well as the promotion of activities with the same purpose on the territory. Article 5 sets out measures to encourage and support the work of the Postal Police. Finally, Article 6 provides that the quaestor - until the plaintiff's complaint or complaint by the victim has been brought - should be able to address to the child over fourteen years old, who is responsible for acts of cyberbullying against another minor, a verbal warning in order to make him aware of the disvalue of his act and of the damaging character of his actions, in order to avoid the use of criminal sanctions. The warning ceases to have effect upon the attainment of the highest age. Colleagues, this measure, which has been unanimously approved in the Commission, is of particular interest not only because it captures a very serious and very serious phenomenon related to the use of the computer tool but also because it involves two issues: the first is to safeguard the correct use of the computer tool as a tool for training and growth of the new generations; the other is to operate in this sense, also through the repudiation of the criminal penalty as salvation for every evil and the most strenuous search for a complex of strategies that act on such fragile ground as that of minors and their psychology and emotional growth, whether they are victims or that they are authors of the fact. This, in the Commission's view, is an important, concrete and effective step forward in combating social phenomena, which, by tradition and sometimes even by cultural laziness, are entrusted with the solution, using the criminal instrument, which is one of the invasive instrument and, moreover, a valuable and limited resource to be used only in limited cases. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mazzoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u58	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the report and the presentation of the unified text of draft laws Nos 1260 and 1261. It is very important for us parliamentarians; it is very important for children (this morning we have a large representation of young people in our forums); it is important for teachers, but it is especially important for us who are adults. In fact, welfare also passes from the protection of minors in front of bullying. The theme is not new and is being presented increasingly devastating through cybercanals, with the use of social media, computer technologies and current means for ever faster virtual communication. However, through the virtual, communication, when it is diverted, has the devastating ability to transform the real and to enter overpoweringly into the deep layers of being, that being person who is gradually building, step after step, step after step, during that very delicate phase of adolescence. The tragedy will then ripen through what starts as a game, a game: a game that is terrible, where there are no winners, but only winners. Who are the losers? The victim, the bully, the spectators, the families of the children, the educators and, finally, society: the whole society. Although not all cases of aggression and prevarication are attributable, even in cyberbullying, to real acts of bullying, we feel called into question, even in a preventive direction, promoting that culture that educates the dialogue for the resolution of conflicts and not the use of physical force and arrogance. Inside this bill there is all this. Surely there is not a single absolute solution and not even a winning solution for this, which is a deep evil that leads our children, unfortunately, to even extreme gestures. It is certainly a joint awareness-raising action involving children, schools, families and social groups. All of this can result in positive results. Then there is the community, seen as a school community, with the families and networks that have been widely talked about (the territorial networks of services, which are key points through which to address the problem). We're not in the year zero. We heard that. We have circulars. As early as 2007 Gentiloni spoke clearly of the problems of bullying, even if not of cyber. There have been positive policies: the website, conferences, conferences in all territories and a plan for the conscious use of the Network. All these policies are, however, linked to a specific framework that is incorporated into this draft law. Attention, however, because after this bill it takes the passages of the entry into force, but also those of the monitoring of all the actions and, above all, of the verification. In fact, we are used to making good laws, perhaps to monitoring sometimes less compelling, but then the verification very often lacks; this is one of the things on which we must absolutely make a commitment here. I would like to quote a scholar - I could mention many others and you will certainly do so - Gustavo Pietropolli Charmet, who is one of the greatest experts in bullying and therefore also of this new phenomenon, which concerns all the means by which we interact continuously (smartphone, iPad and so on). This scholar believes that there are specific reasons why the group of friends turns into a band and suggests some key points to defend themselves from this; I want to quote them, because they are important. In the first place, it suggests talking to someone (a friend, a mom, a family member, an uncle) about what happens and keeping still their position, that is, not to be absent in class, not to isolate yourself and not to be put in the corner. Never give in to the blackmail of bullies and signal your own suffering, especially to mothers, especially to your mothers; signal the discomfort to an adult, sending his own cry and SOS to a teacher or a psychologist. I am a teacher, I am a primary school teacher: we are ready, always ready, always, always, to listen. We are always available, never forget it; do not forget your teachers, your guides. It is also necessary to identify the best bully, the one in the group that is the most approachable, and to tell him his discomfort, saying: "Look that I am not quite so agreeable, there is something that does not work." Then you have to send the principal maybe a letter, an anonymous letter, and have the parents speak to solve the case. There's a contagion in our teenagers. Is it goliardia? No, I would say that it is not goliardia, I would say that it is a misconception, that according to some it is made of malice, while according to others, who defend, it is only naivety. This is not the case: it's a misconception - I want to repeat it - it's a misconception shared through the Network, with phones, with social media. It's a very alarming phenomenon. The president of the court for minors in Bologna, Giuseppe Spadaro, says that sexual blackmail among minors on the Internet is not a boyfriend. Our postal police - which I thank for all the preventive and dissemination action they do in schools, as well as surveillance and control - speak of a social emergency: two out of three teenagers - as has already been said - are involved. Is this an inner void? Is this a crisis of values? Yes, but it is above all a lack of education, a lack of self-respect, a lack of respect for others. It's a lack of education about something new that wasn't there before. When I was a girl, there was no digital education; so this too must be introduced, because there is a lack of education in digital relationships. We adults are all called into question, not just parliamentarians, even educators and parents. How to control, how to deny or prohibit the use of social media? The data that has been quoted tells us some really amazing things: they tell us that the under 30 members of Facebook, one of the most famous social media, are 77.4 percent. But from the United States they tell us that already at one year children interact with games that have to do with the Internet and that within two years 36 percent are able to enjoy the apps. You understand that this is something that truly opens up horizons that we did not have present. There are new tools: what then become the iPad and the iPhone, if not a prosthesis, that connects you? They therefore become an instrument of growth, which grows with the same evolution of these new apparatuses. Therefore, we must carry out our task, also through the draft law under consideration, which is well-designed and well-designed and which is based on the programmatic guidelines already in force: this is the first time that a bill is flanked and runs on those same tracks. Our task is therefore to allow children to have a public life, respectful of their own and other dignity. Our kids are called digital natives, but they are still very vulnerable: just because they interact quickly with these new tools we don't have to think that they are not. They are more, because they have not had the opportunity to interact with real life, since they very often grow by interacting, only or in part - for many hours, even 10 per day - with virtual life. I was lucky enough to interact with my neighbors and companions, through all five senses, while in these cases it interacts only with sight and sometimes with hearing. We therefore welcome the draft law before us, on which there has been a clear unanimity, because Parliament has been very quick in this case and has thoroughly examined all the issues. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Favero, I invite you to conclude. FAVERO (PD). Thank you, Madam President. I just want to remind you that within the provision on good school there is reference to coding - so the measures travel together - and there is the launch of the Italian platform. code.org and the program digital makers, to acquire digital awareness, which is useful to teachers, for an experience that will then be made inside a circuit. I want to make one last mention - but certainly not least - of the fact that resources have been allocated: it is important that the commitment of two million euros is already planned on this game, because we know that every good bill - as in this case too - needs to be based on the allocation of resources. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u60	We greet the students and students of the Istituto comprentico Statale "John XXIII" of Isernia. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u61	Madam President, when I look at the children of the school in Isernia, who are present in the stands, I have thought that it is not always possible for young people to be present in this House and to attend a debate which is of particular interest to them. I therefore believe that teachers, when they return to their classes, will be able to use this opportunity, because in today's debate we are talking about children, about violence against them and about a phenomenon that has actually become enormous. President Finocchiaro told us a few figures and made us understand how devastating the phenomenon is, how much is still hidden and how difficult the children bring it to the attention of families and schools. I would define the bill under consideration as a measure of civilization, which Italy must approve in order to give a push in this direction and to follow the indications already existing at international level, the European directives and also a series of information coming from the world of the web; that world that would like the web to be a great tool and a great opportunity for everyone and not as sometimes happens, a tool of prevarication and enormous violence, as in the case of cyberbullying. I believe that it is necessary to start from the very assumption of how useful and beautiful the Network is, how much it can lead to interesting experiences and how much it constitutes an element of knowledge for everyone. So, on the one hand, there is the idea that through the Network, unfortunately, there are so many crimes (in this case we are talking only about cyberbullying, but there are many other crimes that have very fertile ground in the Network); on the other hand, the conviction that instead it is a missed opportunity that the Network cannot be safe, especially for our young people. The colleague first spoke of the digital natives: they are all children and young people born with electronic instruments in hand; children and young people for whom the Network is part of themselves, they cannot do without it. Therefore, it is clear that an important part of the education of our young people today is education to the conscious use of the Network. 11:45 a.m. (Giorgi's follow-up). In this beginning of intervention I want to put it as a very positive element: the conscious use of the Network is an obligation, a very important part of the teaching within the school and it is not a coincidence - as was well said - that within the provision on good school this is, both for children, and of course in the field of teacher training. In fact, it is clear that teachers will first have to tell this new virtual world and make it possible for young people to interact with it. That said, however, it is clear that this is only the starting point: the Network should be a tool that guarantees knowledge and transforms that series of information that is acquired, even in a very timely way, in a context instead of true knowledge. Knowledge is only formed when that information has a network within people's heads, so when that information, many, even too many at times, can become a true tool of knowledge and heritage of the person, and thus enter into the minds and consciences of the people. Therefore, the Network as an exceptional tool of progress and civilization. The Network is also the one from which it is necessary to protect those who are not able to do it alone: it must be a job, as well as in the provision is said by those who have the power to intervene also within those that are the infrastructures: therefore the postal police certainly, through a control, and also economic instruments and resources that must be made available to fight this phenomenon. And of course, great availability is needed: from trained teachers and - for this reason there is a need for a cultural passage in families - availability and attention on the part of people. How many times have we said (on a thousand occasions) that the kids alone for so long on the Net do not have to be there; certainly the parents work, certainly it is almost impossible to protect them, but there are tools - and I must say that in past experiences I have financed them and developed them also with experts in the field - that even when the child is alone in the home they allow to obscure a quantity of other sites making available to the child and the boy only a few sites. This is technologically possible. So we tell parents that this can be done in homes, and in some regions there are policies that aim, even with targeted investments, at this very thing. So where does this measure come from, of which I am honored to be a signatory? I must acknowledge Senator Ferrara who wanted to carry out this bill with great passion and with great force, involving all of us and those who have had and have experiences - we all have families and children - but also those who had political responsibilities in this area. I repeat that this is a measure of civilization that responds to the needs of so many poor silent children who are afraid of their comrades, especially their schoolmates, because that is where the most worrying figures come from; those of Europe make us shudder: we are even talking about 48 percent and 23% of students of the same school. These are data which, as has been pointed out, concern children between the ages of 12 and 18. We are talking about spreading false information, videos, everything that violence does to consciences and that is used to devastate and destroy another person. We know that there have been cases of suicide and we can't ignore it. It is clear that as a Member of Parliament - we are also proud that Parliament is proposing this - we need to look at openness and, above all, find the appropriate instruments. This is what President Finocchiaro said: it is not even a question of tightening the penalties, because the penalties for all crimes on the Net are there; here it is a question of paying attention to minors. That is why I consider the measure to be very innovative, which pushes in a certain direction by trying to create the instruments so that we can oppose all of this. I believe that this is a passage which in some way honours us; and I also believe that the unanimity that has taken place in all the various institutional steps - and I hope, indeed, that there will also be in this House - will give the measure that the Italian Parliament is attentive to these new problems that the new world is proposing to us, and that it is once again protecting the weakest. This is what our Constitution tells us and we are obliged to do every day, especially in view of the fact that, as Members of Parliament, we have these responsibilities. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u62	I would like to say that, in relation to the number of requests for interventions which have been received and which the Presidency intends to accept, the general discussion will take place until 12.30 a.m., with Senator Albano's last speech, and then continue next week. Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u63	Mr President, this bill is certainly an important piece of work for the establishment of a technical table on the prevention of bullying. It is a sociocultural phenomenon that has its roots within our society since time immemorial. The phenomenon of bullying is a serious and daily problem during school hours. All too often the school fails to protect the victims because they hide the act they have suffered, also because they fear further retaliation. Therefore, like a dog biting its tail, it continues in a system of endless suffering, in silence. School is, however, the first true social institution where students must be encouraged to denounce bullying and that is why the phenomenon must be especially in line with teacher training; in other words, teachers must know how to act by helping children. A European and Blue Phone survey shows that 92 percent of children, aged about 7 to 14, own a computer at home and most have it in their own room; 42 percent use the Internet at home. The percentages of people who use computers at school, in the Internet points or as friends are very low and as many as 33% of children connect to the Network alone, in total absence of controls, with lack of parental inspection. This is a deeply worrying fact, because it presents us with the loneliness of the children in front of a computer, where one has the freedom to surf the Internet and has the freedom to act, so that victims and executioners are formed in the same character. It is also alarming that it describes the incidence of cyberbullying against disabled children. In 31 percent of cases, disability is the first reason to start a persecutory activity. The authors of vexatory conducts, with the evolution of means of communication such as e-mail, text messages, social networks and thanks to the increasing spaces on the web, have enhanced the phenomenon of traditional bullying through particularly subtle tricks. The phenomenon takes various forms, from the creation of a page or group on social networks, aimed at denigrating the victim, to the publication on the Net of intimate photos that the postal police hardly manage to eliminate. This involuntarily increases the phenomenon of child pornography on the net. All this creates enormous discomfort, grave torment in the victim, which reverberates on the relational abilities, self-esteem and the ability to socialize, until degenerate into the birth of suicidal ideas. If it is true, as research reveals, that the school is the preferred vehicle for the birth and spread of these behaviors, it is necessary to ask first of all why the problem has become so alarming in our country. We need to investigate why young people - and often very young people - adopt such destructive behaviour. It cannot be denied that a process of socio-cultural decay is taking place in Italy. Incessantly we continue to lower the bar of the founding values of ethics: honesty, solidarity, terms that have now completely lost meaning and meaning. Young people, young people, students and new generations in general learn and form in this culture and idea of society, in which the message that is transmitted must be that of the strongest, the smartest, but above all of the most rude and winning. The solution to bullying cannot be sought only in technical instruments or through more or less repressive policies: we must deal with it, such as people, educators, teachers. The Italian state school has been suffering for years the depressing effects of a reformism that thinks of everything except the quality of learning, education and training. An obtuse policy, like the recent one, is short-sighted because one cannot look at school as a cost: it must be and become a place of investment in culture and education. If this course is not reversed, the phenomena of bullying and cyberbullying will continue to grow, under the helpless gaze of teachers, like us, who, even if animated by excellent intentions, do not possess the appropriate tools to deal with the problem with the right means. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u64	Senator Ranucci is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u65	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Senator Ferrara, first signatory to draft law No 1261 - which, if I may, I would like to subscribe - and Senator Finocchiaro for her sensitivity. That of cyberbullying and bullying among our boys is a subject of great delicacy. The web, as has been said, is a great opportunity: those who have a child know better than me that the web is an extraordinary tool to study. If we tell them to take an encyclopedia they don't even know what it is, while the opening of knowledge for study and cultural openness (my daughter is finished now doing the IB) is being searched on the web. The web, therefore, is a great opportunity, but, as has been said, it must be handled with great care. I think the bill on bullying and cyberbullying is important to our kids, and that's why I want to thank my colleagues. I'm also talking about bullying in general because I want to connect to the psychological bullying that clearly lets the kids in and out of a pack and makes them feel part of a pack, understood in the wrong sense of the term. In this regard, I would like to highlight the problem - which is not present in the draft law, but which I hope will also be taken into consideration in the future, if not at this time - of binge drinking, literally "alcoholic drink": it is the term used today to objectively define excessive and at risk drinking, conventionally referred to as five or more alcoholic units drunk on one occasion. You'll ask me what this has to do with cyberbullying: binge drinking is a phenomenon of bullying that happens exactly on the Net. I invite those who have never seen videos posted on the web, which are frightening: children of fourteen, thirteen, fifteen years who compare and drink, for example, five glasses of vodka one after the other. It's impressive to see these guys with their eyes turning and who, before passing out, name another on the web and challenge him; the appointed, in order not to feel out of the pack (and here there is bullying), is forced to do so. And go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, You don't have to tell the harm alcohol does to the kids. This phenomenon is spreading more and more among young people, starting from adolescence. Two qualitative surveys were carried out by the company Ecletica in three cities (Turin, Rome and Salerno) and on the web, which gave voice to a sample of 134 adolescents (15-17 years old) and young people (22-24 years old) who usually practice binge drinking. The results of these investigations show the difference in Italy, based on available data, between statements on drunkenness (13 percent of cases) and binge drinking (35.5 percent of cases). In fact, most respondents consider drunkenness to be significantly different from shining, and argue that drinking 5 or more drinks on a single occasion does not make drunken, but only shiny. The results of the research are significant in that they emancipate the notion of binge drinking from a strictly quantitative characterization to a more phenomenological one: binge drinking represents a moment of passage of the youth collective identity linked to fun with relative diffusion in social networks, as well as a dangerous habit that can cause serious damage, as we know, to health. I therefore believe that we will have to speak on this point; I do not know whether there will be space (I ask the rapporteur), but I believe that we will have to discuss a much broader issue such as the alcoholism of young people, because at last we will have to provide for more serious sanctions for the administration of alcoholic beverages to children under 18 years of age: the rules exist, but no one respects them. I therefore believe that this Parliament must take responsibility for a phenomenon that is destroying our children. When we go to the squares, how many times do we see these guys who don't walk straight, who are sick, who sometimes go into ethyl coma! Guys who have their liver smashed at 16 or 17 years just for fashion. I believe that we must involve all the players: from trade, politics, school, families, everyone has to do their part. Too often, in fact, I hear statements such as: What does a small glass do? Well, a small glass at 14 or 15 years of age has effects. I am not a doctor, but there are doctors in this House who will certainly be able to agree with me on this issue. I just wanted to take stock of this phenomenonology of bullying and cyberbullying, which concerns the web, hoping that this House, if possible on this occasion but in any case in the future, will really take into account the problem of alcoholism among young people. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u66	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u67	Mr President, the draft law under consideration consists of six articles and aims to combat the phenomenon of cyberbullying in all its forms and for all the actors involved, both the victims or those responsible for wrongdoing. This is a regulatory intervention to protect minors, but outside the criminal field, as had already been reiterated before by the senator who related on the bill. The Internet has opened up new possibilities for all of us, but the other side of the coin is the risks associated with misuse of this tool; risks including cyberbullying. Bullying and cyberbullying are two sides of the same coin, clearly brought to light by the mass media, which talk about it more and more about issues related to new technologies. The Internet has opened up new possibilities for all of us, as well as for young people, but it can also represent a serious risk for the new generations in cases of misuse, as can be, precisely, cyberbullying, a term adapted by English to indicate a form of bullying online, which puts our boys in a position to be seriously affected. For young people who are growing in contact with new technologies the distinction between online and offline life is really minimal; the activities that young people carry out online through the technological media often have consequences even in their real life. Similarly, online lives also influence the way offline kids behave, with different relapses that need to be taken into account to fully understand cyberbullying. This is a very serious phenomenon because, in a very short time, the victims can see their reputation damaged within a very large community, also because the contents, once published, can reappear on several occasions in completely different places: in a hundredth of a second, maybe on the other side of the world. Often parents and teachers remain in the dark for a long time, since it is not easy even for children to confront adults, who often do not even have access to communication, while we know how good teenagers are with new technologies lately. It may therefore take a long time for a case to come to light. Cyberbullying, i.e. online bullying, is a form of relational discomfort, abuse and abuse perpetrated through new media (sms, e-mail, blog, web). Among the girls, then, the victims are often more numerous than among the boys, often with messages in content or with sexual allusions. Although this does not involve physical violence and coercion, there are clearly very serious implications. However, the consequences of cyberbullying are similar to those of traditional bullying. First of all, there is the psychological aspect, with an intense subjective level of suffering, with a serious interest in self-esteem, as well as the effects on socio-affective abilities and personal identity. School difficulties, anxieties, depressions and, in extreme cases, suicidal ideas have also been found. In recent years cyberbullying has become an international health problem. Nevertheless, and despite the media alarms, many parents and teachers continue to perceive it as something that does not concern their children or students, as if it were something that always happens to their neighbor. One wondered whether cyberbullying could be killed: it seems so. I am thinking of Northern Europe, for example, where in some very serious cases young children have reached suicide. We are talking about normal boys, scholars and educated who, however, end up being victims, despite great cruel games that, at first, seem only jokes between boys. They are daily blackmails on social networks. There are now dozens of victims of these angeries that have led to the extreme gesture of suicide. Computer and program manufacturers have been asked - among other things - to engage in a confrontation with national institutions, as well as to develop new technological solutions to improve the safety of children and adolescents when they are online. Secure use of the web is not just about kids. Many times even adults are involved in this misuse. Sometimes you start out as a joke and then you end up very badly. The adults themselves do not always ask themselves questions about it and do not always have the knowledge of the new means, which often give control to some systems - I think, for example, the parental control - of which the same machines are equipped, but which can be easily bypassed by the boys, who have now become absolutely great experts. We wonder what to do. The law certainly goes in the right direction. We were just talking about the Senate's ability to vote unanimously. Maybe something more could be done. More resources could probably be made available for prevention, but the important thing is to start. I believe that there are also the conditions for correcting it in the course of its adoption and perhaps filling in a chapter of expenditure, which I would not call Article 81 of the Constitution into question, because when it comes to these problems, I think we can also remedy. Moreover, if we were to increase public debt on these issues, which is still growing so much, it would not be on a bad expenditure item. Mr President, the current one is, to all intents and purposes, the first generation of teenagers raised in a society in which being connected is a fact, an experience that is natural to everyday life. The kids were born with the computer. It is the first generation in which the computer has absorbed 100 percent of these children's lives. For them it is normal, while it is not at times the case for parents who have enormous difficulties even limiting and above all controlling their use. It is not always easy to make serious contact with father and child and to try to understand what may be the malaise of the children, whether they are the victims or the executioners. The literature on cyberbullying, and therefore studies and research, in recent years have allowed to identify some characteristics that distinguish a phenomenon now very vast, which presents criteria such as intentionality, repetitiveness, imbalance of power, anonymity and public dissemination of information. I shall conclude, Mr President, by wishing this law a serious path in its implementation. I hope there is the ability to intervene, both on the part of families, that - as I said before - they are not always able to control the new means available to their children, and they do not understand well whether the use of these new and sophisticated technologies, in particular the Internet, has a positive purpose aimed at study or something else, both from the school. Families are sometimes unable, and I believe that the school, on the other hand, can play an interesting, very important role in this regard. On the contrary, I would say that we should even force school - even if the term "obliging" is very strong - to interact with families and children because such interference in their actions is necessary. Mr President, in the next law of stability we expect a few more resources on this expenditure chapter. It is at stake the social and psychological well-being of children who, at times, for the angeries suffered by children carry exquisitely personal consequences in adulthood, which can also be transferred into their future family life. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Berger, Finocchiaro, Elena Ferrara and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u68	We greet the teachers and students of the Institute including Buccino and Palomonte, in the province of Salerno, who attend our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the legal and social implications of the widespread spread of social networks have always been underestimated: many facts that take place on the Internet and resolve in a violation of the rights of people are still waiting to be regulated by appropriate legislation. This cyberbullying bill deals specifically with protecting those spaces left uncovered by the lack of legislation that represses the acts of bullying that take place on the web. The advent of the Internet has changed the place where bullying manifests itself, moving it from a real square - where the physical encounter takes place between people - to a virtual, larger one, which can contain many more subjects, most of the times anonymous, and therefore be much more dangerous. The bully who acts through the Network directs his criminal activity by performing persecutory acts and discriminating the victim for his aesthetic aspect, his sexual orientation, his unconventional aspect and for everything that can be considered different and, therefore, wrong. As emerges from the data provided by the postal police, while the bully of the past carried on his criminal design in the corridors of the school, the bully of today, instead, is an apparently polite boy, most of the times shy, who exploits the anonymity of the web to address accusations and humiliations. We go from simple offenses to the creation of real groups against a certain person. These are subjects who dare not offend the victims by looking into their eyes, but who do so through the Network, protected by a screen. The Network, in fact, allows and makes it easier, also because it is possible to connect to social networks in perfect anonymity. I would also like to point out that the phenomenon of bullying - telematic, and not only - is increasing today among young girls, who associate media with the actions of traditional aggression. As some experts point out, women, who at that age often have a stronger personality than male peers, find online a means to spread videos and photos and follow up gossip, slander and humiliation, which can leave even serious wounds in the weakest subjects. The Net then amplifies these violent behaviors, prompting comments and incitements to avalanche by other teenagers, causing psychological damage to victims often even more serious than the physical ones. 23 percent of Italian girls were at least once victims of provocation and abuse by schoolmates. The consequences of online bullying are devastating: from the collapse of self-esteem to the lowering of school performance, from depression to suicide in the most radical cases. Let's remember the story of Carolina Picchio, 14 years old, who killed herself jumping from the balcony because she was harassed on social networks by cyberbulls, or the other young man who, because of his sexual orientation, had been targeted by the bullies of the web and led to suicide, after harassment, humiliation and verbal violence (they called him "the boy with pink pants," with the clear intent to humiliate him). For some years now Antonello Soro, the Data Protection Officer, has aimed at the lighthouses of his action towards a more conscious use of the Internet and social networks and towards greater protection of the victims. In fact, the Guarantor, in addition to having undertaken to strengthen the culture of respect and to make our children understand that the violence on the Net is equal to that carried out on the street, even if carried out hiding behind anonymity, has suggested on several occasions to put into practice concrete solutions, starting from an enhanced protection in favor of the victims, that it provides an accelerated procedure to remove the harmful content in a short time. In our order, in fact, beyond the individual acts of bullies, punished separately - such as harassment or beatings - there is no self-appointed crime for these facts. At European level we have no specific act on cyberbullying, but - as the introductory report explains well to this bill - there are various manifestations of the will to protect young people on the web: think of the European Commission's Communication "European Strategy for a Better Internet for Children" of 2 May 2012; the Commission's proposal to develop, by all companies operating on the web, methods of self-regulation; and, finally, the invitation to Member States to adopt legislation creating a new and secure IT ecosystem. Then there is a written statement that 238 Members of the European Parliament have called for support for the European Day against Bullying and Violence in Schools. That's why we're here today: to live up to a commitment. The violence that bullies express through the Net is symptomatic of a negative situation that, most of the time, comes from the family, and then pours into the school and social contexts with which it has to do the author of the offenses. We must not, therefore, forget the families of bullies. We know very well that in our society it is increasingly difficult for families to be close to their children as they grow up. Both parents often work, while the traditional family network, consisting of grandparents, uncles and other relatives, has become increasingly fragmented. In this way, our young people are left with the virtual world, a world in which the concrete meaning of their thoughts and actions is lost, where everything seems allowed and allowed and where the insult, the mockery and the fucking it too easily turn into persecutions to the detriment of the weakest. That is why I am very much in favour of Article 3 of the draft law, which provides for the establishment of a technical table that will deal with all aspects related to the phenomenon of online bullying. This is because I believe that, even before introducing new and more specific crime cases, we should help parents and families understand the reality of the Internet and social networks, through a large information and awareness plan on how to monitor our children's online activities. It is not by forbidding problems to be solved but, if we do not help families, if we do not offer them the tools needed to understand how today's children communicate, we can never, alone, stem and defeat this phenomenon. Years ago, when television was the cause of so many phenomena of violence among the youngest, rules were introduced on timetables, protected bands, banning certain advertisements, which allowed to eliminate the risk that a child might be faced with improper programs. On the Internet, however, everything is allowed, everything is allowed and everything is available, in the most complete absence of control over who places the contents, who exchanges them and who takes advantage of it. Anonymity has replaced the concept of group, of herd, because, concealing his own identity, the young bully knows that he cannot be traced, or judged, and the behaviors that derive from it are the same that we have seen in the phenomena of traditional bullying. Furthermore, we must not forget the teachers and their essential role in the growth of our children. Unfortunately, we have to find the loss of authority in the school and teachers, who no longer manage to instill that healthy respect among their students. Too often we read in the newspapers reports of teachers attacked by their own parents, when they "have" reproached their children for unupbuilding behavior. If we parents are the first to disrespect educators, how can we expect our children to do so? I hope, therefore, that during the activities of this technical table, but also thanks to the new reform of the school, the fundamental role that school must play in our society will be highlighted and restored. I also wanted to highlight the important inclusion of Article 6, which will make it possible to apply the warning procedure for the offence of stalking also to this crime: The offended person may present the facts to the public safety authority by making a request to the quaestor of warning against the author of the conduct. This prevention procedure, which has so far been unknown in this context, is essential in order to avoid intervening too late when the victim has already been abused. Our efforts, however, do not stop here: these conducts must not only be judged negatively by the introduction of an autonomous title of crime, but must also be prevented by means of the instruments available to the State. I am referring to the role of the State Police which, thanks to its men in the postal sector, is capable of suppressing online crime and, in particular, cyberbullying. The prevention of such events is mostly carried out through the irreplaceable action of the postal police that has the competences that other police bodies do not have. Reducing the staff for a supposed need for savings does not make sense if this saving affects the rights of citizens that this state is required to protect. Finally, I must stress that the introduction of new and more effective rules must be accompanied by training and awareness-raising activities involving schools and families. We must, through an extraordinary cultural commitment and a 360 degree mobilization, activate those antibodies in society, through the collection of knowledge and the dissemination of good practices, in order to protect our children and help families understand, understand and control the phenomena that revolve around the world of the Internet. We must explain to our children that we are our best defenders. This is because young people do not realize that when they write or put images on the net, they make these content available to anyone and, above all, they do not think that what they put on the net today will be visible forever. Today's behavior risks changing their tomorrow. I will end by thanking Senator Ferrara for proposing an extremely topical text, but with an innovative approach, that is not repressive, nor punitive, but cultural and civil growth. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u70	As agreed, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u73	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, once again - it is the third in order - I am speaking on the increasingly heavy issue of the implementing decrees relating to the enactment of legislative provisions that do not see the light until, precisely, the subsequent decree is issued. In this case, after the request for acceleration, which has not yet had a completely positive outcome, relating to the so-called art bonus decree, in particular the one provided for the efficiency and qualification of the Italian hotel system, there are very heavy demands at the level of the Confederation of Crafts, rather than the same research institutions, as regards a legislative provision extremely important for the development that can provide the Italian company system, but also to the institutions and research bodies. I am referring to the Stability Act No 190 of 23 December 2014, in which, precisely, there were implementing provisions to obtain 25% tax credit for expenses incurred, and not only, for research and development activities in the company. One thing must be said, which, by the way, takes on a gravity on which I can no longer remain silent. And I am speaking in this way in this House after, of course, having already asked the relevant ministries to urge the issues and to see where the procedures are. Just this morning I received information that the General Accounting Office of the State asked for further information from the Ministry of Economy and Finance regarding the implementing decree of the said Stability Act (I refer, exactly, to Article 35). I was saying that this is even more serious when we consider that the reference measure dates back, in fact, to 2013 - I refer to Decree-Law No 145 - in which, in Article 3, there was again talk, precisely, of tax credit for research and development activities. This amendment, carried out at the end of 2014, has never seen implementing decrees relating to the same law. So, we're actually two years away from the first Decree-Law No. 145. I don't think the timing is acceptable at all. I do not read, even if I would like to do so, the notes I have received: there is talk of closure of the company and, on the other hand, of research organisations which have no idea exactly how they will be able to request this tax credit. Therefore, I am very grateful to the relevant Ministries, who are the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance and the Ministry of Economic Development (MISE). I don't think we can stay here, in August and Christmas, to try to modify the Italian legislative system, implementing extremely innovative laws, and then, in reality, find ourselves deprived of the necessary tools. It seems a mockery for Italians who are waiting for this to happen to be able to develop - look a bit - innovation and work in the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u76	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, from 2008 to 2012 there are 437 Italian companies that have passed into the hands of foreign multinationals, many of which have been displaced and left to their fate. Tuscany goes to the wedding: see the cases of Eaton, Smith International and Severstal. There are many cases of Italian companies that, after obtaining public funding, incentives and reductions, are sold to buyers who end up taking away our patents, projects and know-how. Today I would like to make known to this House the Ansaldo Breda case, one of the most important metal companies in Europe for the construction of means for mobility by rail, jewel and national pride, capable of producing very high-value trains such as the FR1000, called the most beautiful train in the world and even held at baptism a few days ago by the President of the Republic of Mattarella. It is a company that counts four plants in Italy (Pistoia, Naples, Reggio Calabria and Palermo), with 2,300 employees, plus thousands and thousands more of the induced. On 24 February 2015, the managing director of Finmeccanica Mauro Moretti sold Ansaldo Breda and Ansaldo Sts to the Japanese group Hitachi Rail, for 36 million euros. I repeat: 36 million euros, the cost of a couple of Serie A players. Finmeccanica divides in two the branches of the company, a new company and an old company that is not sold, in which the plant of Palermo appears, where the fate of more than 150 workers is unclear. During the signing of the sale we assist to the moving statement of Moretti: There are no occupational risks from the disposal operation, as there are guarantees foreseen for the coming years. The new multinational, before delivering an industrial development plan, is calling for the head of 138 workers considered redundant. Personally, on 11 May I met the trade union representatives and workers of Ansaldo Breda in Pistoia, worried, very concerned, about the future of the company and the employment effects, as well as their health, given the too many cases of asbestos deaths. Yesterday's news is the discovery of other metals buried in the farm's soil. That is why I put a question to the Minister for Economic Development, so that certain guarantees can be given on the maintenance of employment and the productive future of Ansaldo Breda and Ansaldo Sts. The new Japanese property aims to significantly reduce the workforce by 69 units in the Pistoia plant. In short, Tuscany is sprinkled, like all the rest of Italy. In all this, we are witnessing acts of high comedy by the PD governor of the Tuscany Region, Enrico Rossi - other than Beppe Grillo! - from statements of the type: They will have to pass over us if they intend to dismantle Breda and the Tuscan railway system, to recent statements (after the Venetian metamorphosis) in which, lowering his head, he flexes with phrases like "Who can enter other capitals also I do not find an offense. He is a President who cares so much about his land, to the point of cutting ribbons and inaugurating Piaggio's factories in Vietnam, with such a sense of humor that he comes to declare that "Renzi" is left-wing. We look forward to President Enrico Rossi's statement: "Workers, be serene." [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u79	Mr Albano (PD). Mr President, I would like to draw attention to a piece of news published today in the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" in which information is given of the necessary assignment of the escort to a 9-year-old child, son of a public prosecutor of an anti-Mafia district management in Sicily, as a victim of death threats by one of the most bloody mob bosses. The boss has been heard, through environmental interceptions, uttering with unheard of ferocity the following words: "Mancu a semenza ave a ristari," that is, not even the seed must remain. This boss, who has already ordered from the cell the killing of the Magistrate father, who had the merit of foiling the diabolical plan of the boss to become a false repentant, has once again manifested how the Mafia moves to use a fierce and unheard of violence against children, children who were once protected by the code of honor of the Mafia themselves. The murder of little Giuseppe Di Matteo, by order of Giovanni Brusca in 1996, whose body was dissolved in acid, threw us into dismay and revealed the need to study new tools to increase the protection of children and adolescents, who also entered the scope of the violence of the mafia. After more than twenty years, I therefore call on the Government not to lower its guard and to take measures against a constantly evolving mafia, but still present. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to commit yourselves, to commit yourselves to all of us, because children such as little Lucio, so called on the Republic, no longer have to live in fear and for the new generations to acquire a civic culture of fighting organised crime. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and from the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u82	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I am about to make this spontaneous statement in the Senate to denounce a truly grotesque fact. All this takes place in the Municipality of Casavatore, in the province of Naples. Following a storm, with strong bursts of wind and hail, in the first week of December of the year 2013, the switchboard on which some traffic lights depended in a crossroads collapsed, but still the traffic lights continued to operate. They were very valuable to the population because, in the last forty years, they have allowed pedestrians to cross that crossroads. What happened then? For some time now the traffic lights have been removed, the intersection has been closed and barriers have been set to prevent pedestrians from passing through. Practically the city is now divided into two because, if pedestrians want to cross it, maybe to go to the baker or to the municipality, to do everything that is normally done in the center of the city, they are obliged to take the car. It's grotesque, but it is. Therefore, you can no longer walk on foot and, if you do not have a car, you must ask some relative or friend to be accompanied to the other side of the city. Nobody is doing anything, and I think this is absurd, and I think the Presidency should take care of it. For my part, a parliamentary question will be asked and I hope that the Government will at least answer this question and finally put a point to the matter. Of course, this question will also be forwarded to the mayor of Naples, in particular, because he is responsible for the Metropolitan City. In this regard, I would like to remind ourselves that the Provinces have not been abolished, but the vote of the citizens in the Provinces has been abolished: they continue to exist, but only the name has changed. Therefore, as the mayor is responsible for this road, we will also communicate to the Municipality of Casavatore. I do not know what else to say, Mr President, because this is a grotesque situation: it is not possible for a city to be divided into two. However, I have mentioned a number of cases, but we can imagine how the invalid citizen can experience such a situation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u85	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I take advantage of the opportunity to speak in this House to respond to a letter I received from and on behalf of the Deputy President of BAT (British American Tobacco). I would like to say that I welcome the Vice President's willingness to meet me and ask the Vice President himself to add a small delegation of listeners to the meeting: these are the workers of the BAT offices in Lecce and Bologna. I expect a mostly affirmative answer, precisely in order to be able to clarify this matter in the best possible transparency and to continue - I read the words of the Vice President - to have not only insights, but a constructive discussion. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u88	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I rise to denounce what is happening in this House and, frankly, to highlight the hypocrisy of the majority. We talked about the Indesit-Whirlpool issue, which is now well known and to everyone's attention. 1,350 jobs and 400 jobs are at risk in the pipeline. We have all filled our mouths with fine words of solidarity, and we have committed ourselves to putting the subject of work to the attention of the parliamentary debate, but then, in fact, this never happens. During the last two weeks, I have carried out an end-of-session intervention every day in order to ask for an answer to the urgent questioning 2-00267 This morning, at the Conference of the Leaders, his calendarization was again put to the attention of the representatives of all the Groups, but it was rejected. Today we have asked for it again in this House, but it has been rejected again. Perhaps urgent interrogation contains uncomfortable questions. Perhaps you do not want to answer these uncomfortable questions and take responsibility for what has been done and what has caused the current situation, right now that we are in the election campaign. I would like to remind you that the questioning is urgent because it has been signed by an entire Parliamentary Group and that the third paragraph of Rule 156- bis of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, regarding urgent questions, states that "The questions referred to in this article are placed on the agenda" - so it is not said that they can be placed on the agenda - "within fifteen days of the presentation, possibly using additional sessions." I realize that in the Conference of the Leaders and in this House the timetable has been rejected, but I want the workers of Indesit to know that those who rejected the discussion of the questioning are the Democratic Party, which could have supported this request. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would remind you that on Thursday 21 May, the day for which we had requested the interrogation to take place, the two Commissions of Inquiry reports on intimidation against local administrators and the phenomenon of accidents at work were scheduled to be voted on. I'm part of one of these Commissions, where I've worked six months, and I recognize that a fine job has been done. This is, however, a confirmation vote, because the reports have already been voted unanimously in the Commission. Perhaps we could have considered it more urgent and important to have certain answers for these workers on Thursday 21 May and to postpone a vote on circumstances after the elections. For me this is unacceptable: I want it to be made public and all Indesit workers to know whose fault it is. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-450.ana.u89	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12:43 a.m.
