ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u4	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved. (Senator D'Anna points out that the presence detection mechanism is not working.) I pray the senators whose presence has not been detected by the system to communicate it to the Secretary Senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1385, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of a bill of popular initiative and the draft own-initiative law of the Cirielli deputies; Pisicchio; Bersani and others; Francesco Saverio Romano; Best and others; Lenzi; Zampa and Marzano; Zampa and Ghizzoni; Martella; Francesco Sanna; Bobba and others; Giachetti and others; Giorgia Meloni and others; Rigoni and others; Rigoni and others; Nicoletti and others; Martella and others; Vargiu; Burtone and others; Balduzzi and others; Laffranco and others; Vargiu; Toninelli and others; Door and others; Zaccagnini and others; Valiante and others; Lauricella; Michele Bordo; Marco Meloni and others; Di Battista and others, and 1449.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u9	Mr President, at this surreal stage of Italian politics we are discussing the reform of electoral law as one of the important reforms that Europe is asking of us, while heavy signals continue to arrive - instead - on problems that affect people's lives more, in the immediate future, such as the possible braking of the German economy and its repercussions on the whole European economy. The data on the unemployment rate in Italy, which has been spread these days, are really worrying, as are the data on the average income of Italians, which places us at a low level among European countries. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I know it is now a rhetorical exercise between us, but it is very difficult to speak. [[Call the president back.]] I am not saying this in order to launch the refrain "well other," but only to point out that the same commitment should be made to constitutional reform and electoral reform on urgent issues, such as that of the so-called third society: I am referring to the 10-11 million people available and interested in regular work - not illegal or in black - who, however, have no access to this type of work and of which no one, and less than ever, the Government is dealing. It has been said that the draft electoral law presented by the Government (this is a first anomaly) goes in the direction indicated by the decision of the Constitutional Court after the declaration of unconstitutionality of the famous Porcellum. That decision should have and should have forced policy to deal with a subject, which is a European issue: I am referring to the crisis of politics and the capacity to represent, in order to create collective instruments for the development of political choices, programmes and the sharing of the sense of democracy in a European Union that is increasingly distant from the citizens; a policy that fails to respond above all to social hardship and work and to find a solution to the economic crisis. Democracy and social justice - or, better, a better response to the needs of the population - are not good concepts to be put together to make a good impression. Those who have read the great work of Amartya Sen in recent years know that the absence of famine is closely linked to democracy. In fact, it is difficult for a government to resist the pressure of public opinion in the event of famine. A banality - it will be said - but it is the result of a scientific work that lasted decades and perhaps expresses the best reason to explain why it takes, at this very moment, more democracy. But it must be an effective democracy. President Romano Prodi, during a meeting at the Robert Kennedy Foundation, recalled that elections are a necessary but not sufficient condition for effective democracy. We need - he said - multipartyism, real possibility and contestability of other parties with respect to those who belong to the government, pluralism in information, economic resources, system of balancing powers and control and conditions of equal starting in the electoral competition. These are some of the indicators of the real democracy that Robert Dahl had used, that already in the nineties in the book "Democracy and its critics" glimpsed the danger of technocratic crippling, when the economic, social and international reality in which the democratic systems have come down from above becomes more complex and the ideology that passes is the one for which only an oligarchy can deal with public destinies, under the banner of a white delegate by the people towards those who govern: something similar to the democracy of Plato's philosophers. At the beginning of the third millennium, in the book "Interview on pluralism" (always by Dahl) another concern is manifested, perhaps only today we fully understand the significance of: In times of crisis, the vocabulary of democracy erodes. Collective fear, national emergency, global wars, both economic and military, terrorism erodes the separation of powers, legitimizes the executive's overpower, takes control of courts of justice, subtracts progressive shares of power from citizens. The areas of democracy and democratic accountability are therefore being reduced, causing serious damage to citizens' participation. The proposal that the government has put forward clearly indicates the level of democracy that it has in mind for our country. Democracy is recalled every time it is necessary for an announcement, but in reality we think of a system that reduces the role of citizens and their freedom of choice. Having foreseen small colleges, ranging from 3 to 6 elected, precludes, on the one hand, a true expression of the possibility for voters to really choose their elected members in their own parties (especially if the leaders are commanded by the parties) and on the other hand, if they are misdesigned or purposely badly (e.g. with the Gerrymandering system, designed for the use and consumption of the parties that are in government at that time) preclude the right of citizens to have their vote equal. In the Commission, the president of the electoral studies association has evidenced that assuming the division of the national territory into 100 circuits, only the party that obtains the majority prize would have a prevalent proportion of elected selected from the preferences of the electors. All lists with a number of seats equal to or less than 100 would elect only their leaders. About two thirds of the House would be made up of elected persons designated as headmaster. Added to this is the issue of multi-candidates. It would open a very hard competition for the conquest of the second place useful for the election, but would then rely on the discretionary choice of the leader the fate of the individual candidates. Almost all parties, then, would only elect nominations. We would find ourselves paradoxically faced with a Senate of nominations and a House of as many nominations. Yet you had tweeted that the cancellation of the Senate would return the choice to the citizens. In this context, the fair representation of the sexes on the list, with no more than two consecutive candidates of the same sex, becomes a purely formal exercise of image, even more so if we do not also establish the principle of double obligatory preference. Not to mention the majority prize, which technically already indicates to the citizen that if he does not vote for parties that can enter Parliament, even if not winning, his vote will be less than that of the winners, in full violation of every elementary principle of equality, just like the old law. It is no coincidence that the Constitutional Court pointed out that each vote must contribute equally effectively to the formation of elected bodies, without an equal assessment of the weight of the outgoing vote, in order to avoid prejudice to the function of the parliamentary body. In short, the smaller political forces that have the greatest need to be represented participate only in the distribution of the seats that belong to the minority. In all this, there are already elements of dubious constitutionality for us, as many have mentioned: constitutionalists, university teachers and experts of electoral systems heard in the Commission, a very important contribution to our debate, but neglected sufficiently by the Government. High is the risk that in order to do everything at once again the mistake of forcing new appeals to the Constitutional Court, in this eternal race to seek solutions abbreviated and not long thought. If you think of really changing this country and for the better you should have long thoughts, but we know that these are not the right times. Today, before man's logic only at the command, there is the prevailing conviction that the winner, or the bigs, must make the rules promo own, a very serious mistake. As the studies on electoral flows and also recent cases in other European countries have shown, voting is no longer a certainty, there are no more safe and secure electoral basins. Podemos in Spain, Syriza in Greece, even the Pens in France show that there are no rules that make it easy to win, even in situations of increased abstentionism, as our recent regional elections have shown. In the Italianum we see precisely this temptation: the two major parties - one in the phase of transformation from the progressive force of European socialism to a sort of new pink whale, the other, in crisis after the condemnation of its leader for tax evasion - sit down to fill any possibility of other contendability, which with the system of poor pluralism, especially television, needs long times to grow, that pluralism that is always sacrificed on the altar of governability to justify the introduction of electoral thresholds, despite the prizes of majority. After decades of instability and governments lasting a few months, political forces in recent years have wondered how to overcome this state of instability. The solutions proposed from time to time are directly affected by this and are focused on the efficiency of the electoral mechanism to ensure the emergence of a clear majority and to elect a Premier on the very evening of the vote. By doing so, however, they have pushed in a direction - almost plebiscytic - to the detriment of the representativeness provided for in the Constitution and the equality of all votes. Governance (along with the anxiety to know the winner of the elections on the very evening of the vote) has now become almost an obsession for this Government. It is a bit of a contradiction, considering the strange amalgam that holds it together, where everything is but governability, to the point that the principle itself, once again, of equality of the vote and of democratic representation, disappears. With the Bulgarian percentage of the majority prize, it will be able to elect everything by itself - as has already been said - including the President of the Republic and the judges of the Constitutional Court: a majority that makes the rules to win easily and so controls who must enforce the rules. But limiting the space for representativeness does not allow any space for governability: this too is now demonstrated and history teaches us. Do you realize that we are going through a particular political phase, where there are those who are blowing on the wind of racism and xenophobia, where there are real tensions for the desperation of entire social classes, of widespread generations, where there is an objective risk of very high tensions and which exclude from participation, also through the intermediate bodies - trade unions, trade associations, associations and volunteering - whole slices of population is a risk that democracy cannot afford? You are talking about a people's Europe and not about the technocrats in Brussels, but you are not concerned with the equality of citizens. The representativeness of the electoral systems is not a fetish, it is a precondition for a real democracy: we have said it several times in the very long marathon of the approval of the Senate reform. The real objective of this reform is, moreover, in a very short-sighted way, precisely that of blocking the road to participatory democracy, because it is clear that this vision of a new and renewed relationship between citizens and institutions is completely in conflict with that, at this predominant moment, of man only under command, which is a vertical and efficient approach, but only in appearance. It is a short-sighted and wrong approach because, after such a heavy period of economic, social and cultural crisis, when the disillusionment of politics has reached very high levels and the participation of citizens in active politics and voting has reached very low levels, what our democracy desperately needs is precisely measures capable of reconnecting citizens and institutions, citizens and politics. In the time of the crisis of substantial democracy, our commitment should be to make forms of representation more democratic, overcoming the personalistic drifts of politics. Instead, we are faced with the dangerous plan to dismantle the Parliamentary Republic on the basis of the conviction of the absolute useless elective assemblies, considered by the President of the Council places where reforms and change are held back and slow down and not institutional places and bodies, forgetting, however, a small and not irrelevant particular: the House and the Senate exercise the legislative function, as the Constitution provides. But if you plan to change the Constitution and even the parliamentary system, then you must have the courage to assume this responsibility, telling it clearly to the Italians, without alibi or protection of Nazarene pacts. If the Government really had an innovative vision of society, it would propose that we change towards not distorting the "protections" that had been inserted by the Constituent Fathers to protect democracy, the Republic, of all citizens, but, on the contrary, substantive those measures in a reform capable of involving the country with positive messages and of great inclusiveness, a reform, in short, that does not speak to the belly of the people, but that ensures efficiency and stability, strengthening above all the public ethics, of which the country is in particular need at this time. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Mussini and Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u10	We greet the students, the students and the professors of the Institute including "Grazia Deledda-S. Giovanni Bosco" of Ginosa, in the province of Taranto, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u11	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening here is that we have actually been in a kind of funnel for over 20 years, in which the institutional powers themselves distort the dictates of the Constitution. In these twenty years we have witnessed a depletion of the collegial constitutional bodies, first of all Parliament, which is now without breath for the so obsessive recourse to the decree of urgency, but also the CSM and the Constitutional Court are in fact at risk of being hegemonized by the leader of a single party. The regional councils, which are now the place for the exchange of favours, marks and all kinds of nefariousness, as the judicial reports tell us; nor are the provincial assemblies exempt, which are now reduced to circles of party nominations (with the excuse of abolishing the Provinces in fact this happened). All this now goes hand in hand with the centralization of power in the hands of the leader of the majority party in turn, who is now one, Renzi, but who could be anyone else, in a context where communication, media statements, tweets and selfies are more important than the political act. It is now instilling in citizens a concept of the personalism of politicians who are actually at the service of the great, more or less occult powers. So too the language changes: the President-in-Office of the Council becomes Premier, even if ours - I would like to remind you - is a parliamentary Republic and not a presidential Republic; the regional presidents are as many governors, a bit to ape the United States, but where there is a federation of states (and it is not our case); the Head of State has become the monarch, the famous King George, not perhaps for the media but certainly in fact. Concentration and hierarchy (with this verticality) are poorly matched by the concept of representation of citizens, and even less by the concept of representation of minorities, starting with political ones. Here, the electoral law so conceived would become the mirror of this reality in the contents but also in the way it is imposed. First of all, it does not provide for a valid voting mechanism for both Chambers, so it takes for granted the elimination of the Senate when, in reality, constitutional reform has not yet come to an end and, worse still, it takes for granted the result of a possible referendum, therefore the will of the citizens, which, given the numbers, seems necessary to approve this constitutional reform: perhaps for this reason the "Premier " takes the credit of a referendum that already knows it has to carry out. Today the Senate exists, thank God; there is a bicameral system with two rooms that give confidence to the Government and stamp the laws. We are going through a constitutional reform with an ordinary law and so the ordinary law risks, also for this but not only, being already illegitimate to the current Constitution. A rational and constitutional electoral law should first ensure representativeness, explicitly enshrined as an inviolable principle in order to have a Parliament in which all, even the smallest, even the smallest, must have representativeness, without this - we have said - having to avoid protecting governance. It must also avoid situations of blatant ungovernability, but this does not seem to be a problem in this Parliament. Simply see how the government is guaranteed by fake oppositions; so it doesn't seem governability the main problem. It seems to us that the problem is the representation of citizens. The two principles must be balanced, therefore governability and representativeness, but in any case sacrificing representativeness should be only a partial event. On the other hand, if representation is sacrificed to produce a schizophrenic electoral system between the House and the Senate, not only is representativeness lost, but governance is made impossible. Let us also admit that the safeguard clause postpones this law to 2016, until the constitutional reform is completed; we admit that the referendum has confirmed it, but this electoral law, with a shameful majority prize and with the ballot, risks seeing the minorities humiliated. We call it governability, but it is actually a dictatorship of the majority. But then any majority, however overflowing, will not be solid if it is not based on common principles and ideals, which in this Parliament seems not to be. This governability seems to be more aimed at guaranteeing the power, therefore to take over the country. The text arrives in the Chamber with blocked lists. It is said that they could only be so for the capitalists, while 60% of Members will be elected with preference. In reality, any mathematical calculation tells us the opposite and that for all small and medium-sized parties to be elected would only be the blocked candidate chosen by the secretariat. So there will be parties made up of just the same names and even counting all the parties we will probably have a single House composed of two thirds of nominations. Majority prize: it is true that a threshold has been introduced, but this has been frustrated by the mechanism of balloting. We wonder what is democratic where in the event of a ballot the prize is awarded to a party that has obtained few votes. With regard to the ballot, I take the opportunity to answer a question from Senator Bruno Astorre who wondered why the triggers (he called us in this way a bit derogatory, for me Five Stars) accepted the fact of having mayors elected by ballot. I would like to remind Senator Dem to all the Dem present here that the mayors have an administrative role, while Parliament would have legislative power. It is understandable that in the areas from which we come both I and Senator Bruno Astorre, that is, the Roman Castles, administrators often stand up to the role of small bosses, who in fact impose those unwritten laws, those laws of subjection to a party or another who decide who works and who does not, who receives assistance and who does not, who survives and who does not, who pours toxic waste and who dies of cancer. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This, however, is something that we would no longer want to see and which has to do not so much with our Constitution, but rather with the Middle Ages, in which the small gentlemen dictated the law on the poor and the disinherited, or with that middle world, which is so dear to the Dem Lazio and which we, on the other hand, would like to see disappear and which I hope you too would like to see overcome. On the other hand, we believe that the politician is an employee at the service of the citizens, that the right to vote must be guaranteed in full. What we see in reality is an oligarchy of the single party that will have the numbers to elect the President of the Republic, the CSM and the Constitutional Court. We say no to this new form of the Middle Ages. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u14	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the debate over the last two months on electoral law first in the Commission and then in this House, in order to repeat expressions already heard earlier, is truly surreal. In fact, our considerations today cannot move from the text formally approved by the House. At the same time, however, we know that a number of amendments being tabled will have a substantial impact on the text of the law approved by the House. These uncertainties could be reassured and eliminated by arguing that today's debate serves precisely to guide the amending work of these hours, that is, it could be said that our every intervention will be useful and valuable in order to achieve a satisfactory result. I would like to think that this is the case. I cannot, as a certain evil press, believe that everything is exhausted in the implementation of the diktats of the Head of Government, which so far, starting with the failure of the Commission's work, have exonerated Parliament's role. It remains, of course, the discomfort of trying to contribute to the improvement of the text without having yet fully agreed, for example, if we are to strive for bipolarism or bipartitism. In fact, the debate on the electoral bill, like that on constitutional reforms, is influenced by a schizophrenic climate, based only on the ephemeral desire to feed public opinion on the commercial measures to deceive Italian citizens and generate the questionable idea that something is being done. Here I find - and I would like to quote it - the intervention of the President emeritus of the Constitutional Court Leopoldo Elia who, in July 2007, participating in a round table on constitutional reforms and making a parallelism with the French situation, had to say that France of that period was characterized by a Sarakozist climate, in which, more than the same effectiveness of ruling, the ability to continuously take initiatives behind each other is enhanced, to conquer titles of printed newspapers and television, to strike the imagination of voters, but above all to emphasize the speed of decision, even if not always to the clamorous announcements follow the achievements. They seem to be written considerations today to describe the situation in our country, but they are effective to represent the paradoxical climate in which our debate takes place. I do not want to dwell on these external evaluations alone; within the substance of the draft law proposed in our examination, not before having considered the conclusions and consequences of the decision of the Constitutional Court No. 1 of 2014. This measure has evidenced that in the current electoral law, the Porcellum, is found too wide a force between representativeness and stability; in other words it has been emphasized the fact that, in order to ensure the objective of the stability of government, the norms censored determine a compression of the representative function of the Assembly as well as of the equal right to vote, excessive and such to produce a profound alteration of the composition of the democratic representation on which the entire architecture of the current constitutional order is based. Therefore, the bill at our examination must remedy this anomaly, but without sacrificing the goal shared by most political forces, that is to guarantee the presence of stable and lasting governments at the head of the nation. In fact, over the last decades this theme has been increasingly developed and many of the political formations between the First and Second Republics have been born with this precise mission, that of tending to bipolarism and the introduction of a majority system. The need for a majority law has only recently been revealed, since in our system, until the 1970s in doctrine and the 1980s in our positive law, it has always been felt that proportional law was necessary and decisive in order to make a minimum common democratic denominator sedimentate in a heterogeneous society. Emblematic was the revision of some constitutionalists, including Mortati, who stated that the conviction of the need for legal institutions to be recognized not only in their legislative regulations, but also in their real existence and efficiency as conferred by the dominant political forces and social consciousness, leads to account of the deformations that the bad obligations of constitutional imperatives have brought to the institutions themselves with respect to the spirit that had informed them. From those premises, from that change of direction, the first majoritarian laws in Italy came. The first was Law 81 of 1993, the law on the direct election of the mayor, the Mattarellum was launched shortly after. Well, if you think about it, both of those laws, after a few years of enforcement, have shown different limitations. Certainly the current season of the mayors is not that of the late nineties, just compare the dynamics of Albertini's Milan with the gray conduction of the same Municipality under Pisapia. Even more disappointing is the Mattarellum budget. With that law created to ensure stability, we counted seven governments in twelve years (one government every twenty months), the same average reached with the Porcellum (five governments in nine years). It may be objected that in the municipalities the councils do not dissolve and last for the entire consiliature, but in recent years this always happens more often only in the spirit of self-conservation, in order to avoid new and very expensive electoral campaigns. However, in the face of these shortcomings of the last majority laws, the text of Italicum in our examination solves nothing; indeed, if we were to attribute the majority prize to a list that reaches 37%, as we note from the text approved in the House, we would have a Government supported by 327 Members out of 630, a very small majority that brings us back to the shaky numbers of the Prodi Government of 2006. Another anomaly that is being discussed these days is the prize on the list. If this insane idea were to get out, we would see the formation of surreptitious coalitions disguised as lists born with the intention of achieving the majority prize and then dissolve at the first useful opportunity. What about the uncertain numbers on the blocked capelista: 100, 120, 70. I would just point out that, if there were 100, to use the intermediate hypothesis, then only 240 Members would be chosen by the voters, with inevitable reflections of unconstitutionality. If we add to these defects the effects of the perverse mechanism of distribution of seats from the centre to the periphery, then we would have a further injury to the principle of representativeness and equal voting rights. I do not dwell on the randomness produced by the multi-candidate system; I see only that the greater the number of colleges in which the same person can apply and the more uncertain is the outcome of the elected in the different territories. Speaking of colleges, certainly ludicrous is the term indicated in the text approved by the House of 45 days for the formation of new colleges. I remind myself that for the application of Mattarellum it took five months before defining the territorial scope of the new colleges. The issues mentioned so far show how difficult it is to achieve the formation and approval of a good majority electoral law, and also that the time spent from January to February 2013 has not been usefully spent. I therefore hope that in the next few hours we can find remedies and improvements and, waiting for the results, I reserve the right to give a positive judgment, which can certainly not be expressed at the moment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u15	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with these words: I recognized, in this great practical and philosophical idea at the same time, the greatest refinement of which the representative Government is susceptible. It was 1862, when Stuart Mill commented with these words on the voting system devised by Thomas Hare that proposed a variant of what will then be known as the single transferable vote, that is, the first electoral formula considered proportional to be adopted in a national election; an electoral system not adopted and not much debated in the parliamentary classrooms, but appreciated both in academic and by the citizens themselves who experience it. Two referendums in Ireland (the country adopting the single transferable vote) rejected the Irish party system's proposal to change the electoral system. Why, then, is he so little adopted and debated? There are those who claim that the reason is to be found among the arguments that the Irish Parliamentary Commission, called in 2002 to consider whether or not to change electoral law, called upon to support the validity of this electoral system. In practice, a quality of this system that does not allow it to be abandoned in Ireland would also be the main reason why, in the rest of the world, party systems do not want to know how to adopt it in their own country. I read the Commission's conclusions: The fundamental and insurmountable reason against change is that the current Irish electoral system guarantees a greater choice for the electorate of any other possible option. A replacement with any other system would reduce the power of the individual elector. For these reasons, we recommend that the Constitution should not be amended in this respect. The power, therefore, is given to the elector. How much is this perceived as a priority in the current debate? How much is it about maximizing the choice power of citizens at party secretariats? The parties are, because of a clear conflict of interest, the less able actors to vote on a good electoral law, that the freedom and power of choice of the citizen should be set as an objective. This is because, given the same preferences in voters, different electoral systems can lead to different winners, so different governments, different future political choices and, for parties, more or less power, more or less armchairs. For these reasons electoral laws are so important and the parties so inadequate to make logical choices and in the interests of everyone. Of course, one could appeal to the sense of responsibility of the political class, which could make choices regardless of electoral tournaments, but it still does not appear the right season to hope for a policy so interpreted, at least in Italy. A good electoral law should be discussed and voted upon after an in-depth and transparent participatory process involving citizens and academics, politicians and administrators. It should be done in the interests of democracy and not of one of the parties involved or against someone. This could be achieved, for example, by subtracting the amendment of the electoral law from Parliament's conflict of interests, perhaps by delegation to a special chamber of citizens, composed of lots, as proposed by Professor Ainis. Moreover, as already established by the European Court of Human Rights, the fundamental elements of electoral law should be legitimised at constitutional level in order to prevent any change of majority from the temptation to adopt a more politically convenient system, in the name of the principle of stability of electoral legislation, a necessary corollary of the free expression of the people's opinion on the choice of the legislative body. This should be done and it will be done - I hope again - when the political class in this country is truly renewed for the better. For now, we must reduce ourselves to trying to improve a bill made by two extra-parliamentarians, without debate and voting on the amendments in the Commission, which risks being again unconstitutional. But the certainty that remains is that no matter how masterful the work may be now in this Chamber, in view of the premises no one who has a minimum of dignity will use the words of Stuart Mill to judge Italicum, whatever piece you will be able to put it. Let us therefore come to the analysis of the bill. I will bear in mind in my presentation the changes that the majority intend to make, save surprises, to the basic text. I would also like to say at once that these changes, if confirmed in this House, are certainly important steps towards an electoral law that is, at least, constitutional. It is our responsibility to avoid even the slightest risk of a new rejection which would have a disastrous effect on the legitimacy of our democratic institutions. With the approval of text 1385, as it emerged from the Chamber of Deputies, however, we would now have an electoral law with serious indications of unconstitutionality. It would be unconstitutional for the unreasonableness of the barrier thresholds which, so established, lead to even harmful effects for the stability of governments (and we know that thresholds, such as the majority prizes, are in proportional systems considered as legitimate insofar as they promote governability and stability and not to discriminate a political force for the choice that can make to join forces or not). Why, then, deprive millions of voters of representation in Parliament for no reason? It would be unconstitutional because the choice of short and blocked lists, with the allocation of seats at national level, does not satisfy the reasons of judgment No 1 of 2014, as widely and in detail suggested by many experts. Good therefore the forecast of a single threshold to 3%, that is reasonable in order to avoid excessive fragmentation of the party system and in line with the thresholds applied in the other countries that adopt a proportional system. I am aware that comparison with other proportional systems is not easy and could be criticized by those who advocate the complete elimination of the threshold because in no electoral system is there an inevitable mechanism for awarding the prize, which determines and ensures a certain majority in Parliament. With such a premium, the threshold is actually superfluous. But the problem in this case is the award that, as Professor Luciani has defined, turns out to be fatal, and not the barrier threshold that, set at 3%, is reasonable and avoids a parcelling of representation, which would all in all also lead to negative effects. The list and not the coalition award are also very good for the reasons expressed by the rapporteur in the Commission and repeated several times. The award of the prize to the coalition generated the race to the opportunistic alliances, which then showed all their internal inconsistencies once won the elections. Perhaps, however, introducing the possibility of merging different lists between the first and second rounds, i.e. the ballot, would guarantee a prize to the coalition and would perhaps be more representative; perhaps, because this too must be understood. If I appreciate the fact that, even by the majority, the blocked lists have to be abandoned, I find the system of unblocked lists insufficient, in which the leader is automatically elected: this would lead to an excess of elected candidates without competing in an equal way with the others present on their lists, creating a disparity in the same context, very conspicuous within small colleges, with few seats and few candidates, with the risk of allowing only voters of larger parties the right to choose part of their representatives. Quoting Senator Finocchiaro, once the principle of preference has been established, he should fulfil his obligation for the legislator to ensure the right of the elector to express himself directly in favour of a candidate of his confidence among those on the single list. And then, from a constitutional coherence point of view, it follows the need to extend preferences to all candidates on the list. I therefore think it appropriate that we opt for the open list, with the vote of preference required, and that the voter should vote directly for one or two candidates on the list he wishes to support. The vote given directly to the candidate also expresses the vote for the linked list. Since it is not possible not to express at least one vote of preference, the influence of clientele and of the exchange vote on the electoral result would be limited to the maximum, as well as directing the choice of the voter more on the qualities of the candidate. However, we now come to the main issue, the one relating to the majority prize. It seems that the debate is all focused on whether it is better to have a threshold at 37% or one at 40, or perhaps 45%. I personally find that the real question of constitutionality on Italicum is being avoided in this way. The threshold we are discussing is, in fact, purely fictitious: the prize is awarded anyway, it is inevitable, fatal, inevitable, only the way to evaluate the preferences of the voters changes. With the ballot, we adopt a method that allows us to investigate the second preferences of voters who saw their parties eliminated in the first round, but which does not imply the level of proportionality of a system. Both in the dual-shift majority systems (see France) and in the proportional transferable vote (see Ireland), the proportionality index is calculated, of course, on the basis of the results of the first round or on the basis of the first preferences. The proportionality of Italicum, therefore, could not be calculated on the basis of the vote in the first round and would not be very different from that of the previous law judged unconstitutional, precisely because, in transforming a relative majority of votes, potentially even very small, into an absolute majority of seats, it was likely to produce an objective and serious alteration of democratic representation, as it caused an excessive overrepresentation of the relative majority list. If it is considered correct from the point of view of proportionality that a list takes the majority of the seats because it won the ballot with, for example, 51% of the votes, then we should conclude that the second list is strongly under-represented which, with 49 percent of the votes at the ballot, will get an enormously lower percentage of seats as calculated on the basis of the result of the first round. In order to ensure compliance with the judgment, it is necessary to introduce a minimum threshold for the legitimacy of the award of the majority prize. If the list that gets the majority in the first round; relative to it is below that threshold, the majority prize is not awarded; therefore no ballot is made and the seats are allocated in a proportional manner. The threshold can be set as a minimum percentage of votes obtained from the total number of valid votes - e.g. 30% - or from the total number of entitled to vote. In the second case, as suggested by Professor Besostri, account shall also be taken of the level of participation in the electoral round in order to decide whether it is legitimate or not to award the majority prize. This threshold of participation for the legitimacy of the prize could be set at 20%: with an 80% turnout, for example, would not be awarded the prize if the list with the relative majority did not get at least 25% of the valid votes; with 66 percent turnout, the implied threshold would rise to 30.3 of the valid votes. Whatever the form chosen or the percentage, the important thing is that the prize is - as Professor Luciani also said - possible and not fatal and inevitable, otherwise you can raise the threshold for the award of the prize in the first round even to 49 percent, but the problem does not resolve. Finally, with regard to the gender issue, having assumed two preferences with the voting pooling system for the linked list, I am in favour of the second possible preference respecting its balance. As far as multiple applications are concerned, I do not think they should be allowed. After all, at the moment most party leaders are not elected in Parliament, and it seems to me that the justification put forward to support its adoption is rather weak. While it is very real that multiple candidatures have a manipulation of election results by the secretariats. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to put in a constructive way fundamental questions concerning the constitutionality of the electoral law; political questions concerning the quality of our democracy and the very concept of popular sovereignty and power of the elector. I have avoided overtones and I have privileged the explanations of those few corrections that I consider absolutely necessary for the good of the democracy of this country. Overall, my opinion is negative, starting with the way in which the debate on such an important reform has been discussed. However, it is necessary to adopt a new electoral law; and I do not pre-empt the proposals of the majority. I therefore ask the Senate and the majority in particular to make an effort to overcome the wall against the wall, which does not allow us to evaluate the amending proposals serenely. As a free person and as a representative of the nation, I hope that the final text that will be put to the vote in this House really takes into account the comments and the debate we are holding. And, above all, I hope that there is an awareness that our country urgently needs to raise the quality of its democracy and that this can be done, also and above all by acting on the rules, looking beyond the interests of part and party, and thinking with ambition and vision of the future to a new world and a model of renewed democracy. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u17	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I go into the general debate on the new electoral law, I would like to look at the past of our parliamentary history regarding electoral laws, so that we can improve and not go backwards for the good of our country. It is precisely from the mistakes made in the past that we must try to build a better future and not blindly repeat the same mistakes. In the post-war years our country saw the succession of three governments presided over by the Christian Democrat leader Alcide De Gasperi, all supported by the center-left coalition, composed of DC, Social Democratic Party, Liberal Party and Republican Party. It was a period of political stability, which allowed important reforms such as the agrarian one, as well as fundamental measures for the reconstruction of our country after the war, such as the Fanfani law. Then De Gasperi, with the fear that the left and right forces could reinvigorate, had a new electoral law passed, nicknamed by the opponents the scam law, which should have rewarded the center coalition with 65 percent of the seats if it had exceeded 50 percent of the votes, in fact making the country governable (as they say). This goal was considered to be attainable without difficulty and would ensure stability and central governments also for the future legislature. Hence, it was passed from the proportional law of 1946 to a law with a majority prize. In fact, it introduced a majority award consisting of 65% of the seats of the Chamber of Deputies to the Group of Related Lists which had reached 50% plus one of the valid votes. Today, on the other hand, we give the party that reaches 37% of the votes a prize that awards 55% of the seats to the Chamber of Deputies, with the excuse of governability. The law was promulgated on March 31, 1953 and entered into force for the general elections of June 3 of that year, even if it did not give effect, so much so that it was subsequently repealed by Law No 615 of July 31, 1954. The so-called scam law of that time has also been cited by Romano Prodi, who I think belongs to the same party as the President of the Council and who is a name dear to many present in this House, even among the papables for the Quirinale. He said that the scam law was more respectful of the principles of democracy than many more recent proposals: the reference is to the current law, already discussed in the House, which today arrives at the Senate and which we could define and appoint the 2015 scam bis law. The 1953 scam law was passed only by majority votes, despite the strong dissensions manifested by the other political formations, both right and left. There were physical clashes between the senators of the majority and the opposition and throughout the country and in the squares there were demonstrations and clashes with the police, as well as strikes to counter it. I wanted to retrace that historical moment because there is at least one element that unites the past and today: the reasons for the protest at that time were born from the modalities of approval and the content of the law; regarding the modalities of approval, the parliamentary passage of the aforementioned law saw a long debate in the Chambers, but a lightning reading to the Senate, as happened recently with President Grasso - I do not want it, but it is a political reflection - first with the constitutional reform for the new Senate, which I do not share, brought to the vote in the second week of August, and now with the electoral law, embodied in this Chamber, presided once again by President Grasso, on 22 December 2014 at 8 a.m. and without rapporteur. At the time, however, the two Presidents - Paratore and Gasparotto - resigned, when they realized that the majority intended to speed up the time to approve the law for the next elections in the spring, showing courage and consistency in not becoming accomplices to a scam. The President of the Chamber who took over in those years was Ruini, who, taking advantage of the suspension of work on the Sunday of the palm trees of 1953, had the session reopened and the law voted, the reactions naturally did not wait. What will President Grasso be remembered for one day? It is a great question mark, but I think it will be remembered positively in good, because it will not only be able to defend the institution, but also guarantee the future of the Senate of the Republic. While in 1953 we tried to reward those who were already majority and could have reached the tranquillity of governing, but now we try to make majority those who are minority, so the definition of scam, even today, is more appropriate than ever, indeed, as Romano Prodi recalls, this law today is even less respectful and less decent. Although of course the context and Italy have changed, the controversy that was then is the same as today: some argue that the application of a majority prize can introduce an unacceptable distortion of the electoral response, while others claim that it is the only possibility to ensure stable governments to the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it has not been a beautiful page of democracy for our country and for the Italians, nor those that belonged to the last decades or those that are being written by our young President of the Council Renzi and this Parliament. There are many aspects of this electoral law that do not convince not only me, but many Italians. From those who support and want the majority prize I hear that it is indispensable, because we have to give Italy a stable government, to make reforms. Sacrosanto, most just: we have passed from Mattarellum to Porcellum and governments have often demonstrated, despite stability, that they are inadequate and incapable of conceiving politics as something at the service of the community and we have met with parliaments at the service of governments and party secretaries, like the current President of the Renzi Council. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] However, on the other hand, we have upset and raped the simple concept of representation in Parliament, namely that my vote must be the same as the vote of any other citizen. I believe that we need to abolish the majority prize both in the lists and in the coalitions and work to implement an electoral law that provides for a proportional system. The logic of proportional representation is pure representation: Parliament must reflect society as it is, that is, each party must submit a list and, depending on the votes collected, it will have a subsequent representation in Parliament. Dear senators, let us work together, let us once and for all renounce loopholes, devious and dark mechanisms, let us act in the interests of our voters and put aside party interests. This will also contribute to Italy's economic and social recovery. We laugh at hope, we put people in a position to believe in politics and politicians again. How can we be credible if we stubbornly accept the idea of not including preferences in the new electoral law? When the Constitutional Court issued the judgment declaring the so-called Porcellum unconstitutional because it violated certain fundamental principles, such as the possibility for the representatives (i.e. the voters) to choose representatives (i.e. the elected), a certain hope had spread in public opinion, always attentive to the issues concerning the substance of democracy. We should, therefore, also redesign colleges which, in my opinion, should be at least 150 so that no elector is more than four candidates per list and preserve the relationship between the elector and the candidate. On balance, however, the most representative parties and, above all, the PD, which was responsible for proposing a law respecting the indications of the judgment, have worked to conceive the infamous Italicum which, in essence, is a bad copy of the Porcellum. It has been said for years that Italians must be able to choose their representatives; therefore, I cannot understand why they do not want to give and retain this right to citizens. There must be no blocked lists for the capilists, but all candidates must have the same opportunities and those who take the most votes win. It is a very simple concept but, in my opinion, effective and above all useful to the country and its democracy. On the other hand, we continue to offer the Italians a bad example of democracy because, in doing so, voters disappear and their freedom and even gets "gratify" with the majority prize, which is justified by a non-real governability and stability. I cannot share this because it would allow, moreover, to cancel the plural presence of the various political forces that are a reflection of society and the thinking of the citizens. The political forces, even if opposed, must work together responsibly. [[Call the president back.]] Can I have a few more minutes? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked for ten. You want 20? ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). No, just a few more minutes. We cannot try to solve the problem by keeping these forces out of Parliament's debate. Are we in a democracy? And how can we have a democracy if everything that is different and everything that represents the concept of pluralism is frustrated and reset? The MP with this new electoral law would indirectly respond to the party and not to the voter, as stated in Article 67 of the Constitution. And I have been in the past (paying a very high price in December 2010) and I continue to be a supporter of Article 67 of the Constitution, a pillar of democracy. If you give me another minute, I'll finish the surgery. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll give you three more. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll be remembered for that. [[Applause.]] This will certainly honor you and those who come after you because you have respected Members in this House who, at such a difficult time, are trying to make a small contribution. Another difference with the 1953 scam law is the so-called gender equality - I apologise to the colleagues present in this House - not foreseen in those years but, alas, strongly sponsored in this Italicum. If we start from the point of view that each of us thinks that men and women are equal and have equal rights, I cannot understand why we should include a law on gender equality. Favoring a genre means starting to discriminate and consider it inferior to the other. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] Equal rights, yes, but equal opportunities. On behalf of and in defense of gender equality, we are victimizing women, Weakening them. The same people who shout loudly - rightly - in this House that women have the same rights as men are the same people who want to make them different, taking advantage of them with a law. Let's take off the mask of hypocrisy, please. Ladies and gentlemen, on whether or not to include a safeguard clause that differs from 2016 the entry into force of Italicum, rather than a safeguard clause I would define it as a referral clause, because the clause in question does not protect anything, but simply postpones the application of the law itself. Perhaps you should safeguard the government, young President Renzi? If anything, it should be tied to the definition and approval of the constitutional reforms (reform of the Senate) already underway and, if it is necessary to implement a safeguard, it postpones until the end of 2017 to allow us to complete the constitutional reforms. The only safeguard must be that of the Italians and their rights. Young President Renzi and young Minister Boschi probably do not know that they do not decide when the country will return to the polls. Little tip: they should listen to and listen to an old song - I don't have the age of Gigliola Twitter in 1964 - but above all meditate humbly. I am going to conclude by missing a part of my speech, which I would ask you to be able to attach to the report of today's sitting. I am sure that my party's interests and priorities coincide with the country's urgency. I am ready now to take a step back on what I have said if I see, in the light of the debate that will take place in this House, that the electoral law of the majority in question will be respectful of democracy and Italians. Then yes, my judgment could be positive. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u19	The Presidency authorizes your request, even if it has taken 18 minutes compared to the ten envisaged.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u20	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, but it was 20 minutes. Two minutes left. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Too bad, because he could complete the surgery. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, but I didn't want to abuse your goodness. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Cociancich. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure has long been awaited. At the beginning of the parliamentary term, it seemed to be the top priority. Some political forces have even questioned the political and legal legitimacy of this Parliament for having been elected Members and Senators by a law subsequently declared unconstitutional by the Council, despite the fact that the same Court, moreover, had specified the full legitimacy of Parliament and its measures. What was essential and urgent has now become extendable and postponed, as evidenced by the submission of over 17,000 amendments: a mountain of amendments which precluded any debate in the Commission. This reveals the instrumental character of those criticisms and, at the same time, the contingent and changing character of the electoral systems. Nothing seems more technical, complex and sometimes obscure than electoral laws and at the same time so linked and influenced by the expectations of success or failure of this or that political force. It is therefore difficult, even if absolutely necessary, to abstract from an opportunistic evaluation and contingent convenience and to carry out the gaze beyond, with a medium to long-term horizon, in order to grasp and realize not a partisan interest, but that of the entire country. This is all the more necessary in view of the extreme weakness of the Italian political system, which contributes with its permanent crisis and its inability to choose and decide, to initiate incisive reforms and to pursue a broader vision than that conditioned by corporate interests. This fragility makes our institutions so unbelievable, not only in the eyes of our own citizens, but also at European and international level. Italy has always been, in the eyes of our partners, an indecipherable system: a code Enigma to decrypt which would not suffice the efforts of the protagonists of the film "Imitation game". So now is the time to proceed with the adoption of a new electoral law, being now temporarily away from the elections (in this sense there are also the statements made in the Chamber by Minister Boschi) and therefore all being united by that veil of ignorance about the results of the next vote, which is a necessary condition for impartial legislation. The first objective of the draft law under consideration is to allow the award of a reasonable majority prize, the identification of who is the winner of the elections and consequently of who will be in charge of governing the country. In this way, citizens will be recognized to indicate, through the exercise of the vote, to whom to entrust the responsibility to guide the country. Too many times we've seen... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u22	Sorry, that's not possible. Sit outside and discuss, please. It is not possible; at least speak underneath.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u23	Please, Senator Cociancich. COCIANCICH (PD). Too many times we have seen, in republican history, the popular will completely disregarded, through agreements of secretariats of parties or current leaders or through interpositions of small political formations that, although not rewarded by the ballot boxes, acquire a decisive role and arbitration in the formation of governments and their policies. Systems that do not allow the clear identification of a winner actually attribute to groups, even totally minority and numerically insignificant (but necessary for the establishment of a government coalition), a power of veto, life and death towards the majority. Paradoxically, it is precisely in pure proportional systems that the principle for which each vote has the same weight is altered, as small groups can influence, and sometimes blackmail, the will of the majority in a way completely disproportionate to their numerical consistency. This is what happened in Italy during the first and second Republics, where in fact small groups with specific interests could impose their will to the detriment of general interests. This degeneration of a healthy principle of representation has allowed the spread in the political practice of opaque practices and behaviours, the emergence of consortia of interests or spurious alliances united by the pursuit of private interests, sometimes inappropriate, often illicit. The thing that seems even more serious on the ethical and moral level, even before political, is that this situation has allowed generations of Italian politicians never to assume the responsibilities of government choices, which therefore have remained orphans of fathers and mothers; a situation for which the faults (tanto) are always of someone else and the merits (few) are always of everyone. The accumulation of a huge public debt, the result of a mad and sensible expenditure, of favors to various consorteries, of investments disproportionate in useless works, finds precisely in this humus its explanation and reason to be. This is the untenable weight that has been charged to future generations and that has caused disgust and rejection for politics and mistrust that it can help to restore our country. Politics has become the problem and not the solution. The real political point on which we are called today to express ourselves is therefore to be able to combine and decline the principle of representation with that of responsibility. Many in this House have also recited, during this general debate, the de profundis of the party system, which has been quickly wound up as a partycracy. This system, in fact, has been entrusted by the Constitution with the task of democratically competing to determine national policy. If the system of parties were finally to fail, if it failed to heal itself, to regain credibility, to carry out the task assigned to it by the Constitution, there would be nothing left but a desert made up of demagogy and populism, a sort of anarchy in which they are all against everyone and the dileggio, the insult, the invective, the prevalence of particularistic interests, territories and categories will prevail over the ability to imagine, plan and build a better future. Without taking responsibility, the feeling of representation will soon be reduced. Without assuming responsibility, it loses its substance the principle that sovereignty belongs to the people, who would no longer have effective means of exercising it. It would really be the end of our beloved country. It is therefore necessary that, alongside a balanced capacity to represent the territories, the parties regain the ability to take responsibility for choices, sometimes even unpopular, that can go beyond the particularistic visions and look to the general interest. The electoral law is closely linked to this perspective, as it can act as a brake or a driving force. In the light of this fundamental principle of responsibility, the most controversial issues concerning the issue of blocked capilists, preferences, the size of colleges, the length of lists and barriers must also be considered today. These are legitimate questions, but they cannot be resolved only in the light of the principle of representation of an alleged popular will. In fact, beyond the consideration that this popular will in fact in many cases is not expressed in the ballot box when it is given the possibility to voters (it is known, for example, that in recent regional elections preferences have been below 15% in the North Regions and indeed have been more than 80% in the South Regions) or are expressed in a non-unique way (in the European elections the candidate who has reached the highest number of preferences in the North West constituency has obtained only 6% of votes), it is necessary that the parties assume the responsibility of indicating to voters a team of candidates with whom to compete for the country's leadership. It is up to the parties, possibly with mechanisms of primary elections or other systems which they consider appropriate for internal selection of the ruling class, to identify the best candidates and with them to submit to the scrutiny of the popular vote. Looking for other solutions, hiding behind the veil of a supposed popular will, closing the eyes on the often very untransparent ways with which it is represented by the usual known, would mean abdicating to a role of fundamental responsibility, a desertion towards our country and its history. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so. CRIMI (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes, I've already given Senator Mineo the floor. If you have the patience and if this is not preclusive, I invite you to wait for the conclusion of Senator Mineo's intervention. [[Senator Crimes' consent.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u25	Mr President, an electoral law must guarantee - as we know - representation and governability, and I therefore find it natural that after 18 April 1948, Italy's accession to NATO, the restoration of the power of monopolies, the emphasis on representation, the need to leave no idea outside Parliament, so much so that a political party could define a "swindow law" as a measure that awarded a governance premium to all the forces that had achieved 50% plus one of the popular votes (while now we are talking about prizes for reaching 40% and we have even talked about 37%). In the same way, one can understand how, after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of the Soviet Union, it was thought of a majority law, which - as was said - favored the alternation of the government of a democratic right and left, as well as in the golden period of the decentralisation of state powers it was thought - and it was legitimate to do so - that the personalization of the figure of the mayor and then of the regional governor could bring the citizens closer to the politics of proximity. Less clear is the process that led to the law Calderoli, recently cassata dalla Consulta. There he actually wanted to allow a leader, whose genius was able - and he was - to unite different forces, not only to have a large parliamentary majority, but also to be able to rely on a team that depended on him in everything: in short, a majority of nominations. It was a ruinous choice, which delegitimized Parliament and parliamentarians, who, from defenders of popular demands, ideas and demands, have become, in the imagination of many Italian citizens, consumers of public money and usurpers of the role of representative of the people. When we condemn anti-politics - and we often do so, starting with the President of the Republic - we should remember that we voted with Porcellum in 2006, 2008 and 2013: errare humanum est, perseverare autem diabolicum. Now what? Now also thanks to a young and vigorous Premier, but not only, because the same path is taken in other countries, from Spain, to France, to Greece, the muscular bipolarism of the past twenty years is no longer a danger in our country. Today a political party would act as a pivot, at the center of the political field and other forces, all minor, would probably turn around. In addition, a constitutional revision law was passed at first reading, which aims to overcome bicameralism, and doing so objectively strengthens the government and shortens the process of law approval objectively. At the same time - we know - constitutional practice is characterized by an increasingly frequent use of decree-laws, delegated laws, trusted votes: we do not really see it because we still strengthen the powers of the Premier. On the other hand, Angela Merkel is the chancellor who governs Germany with a firm pulse, even if - as you know - the Bundestag is elected by proportional law. Of course we can object, as Senator Cociancich did just now, that the Italian system resembles a premiered in fact and not in law: we have not introduced systems such as constructive distrust - I say this - nor the French device that allows the Government to give for approval sensitive laws, unless the opposition asks and obtains to distrust the Government. Well, be allowed: despite the end of bipolarism and the birth - as Matthew Renzi says - of a party of the Nation, so strong was the trauma of the weak governments of the distant first Republic that we still want a majority law. But then I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that it be a real majority law, such as the English law, in which only one is elected by the college and the defeated (even when their votes together were majority among the valid ones) count for nothing and have no right to anything (by this way the strongest party generally gets a large majority in Parliament and its Premier becomes the dominus of Downing Street), or a majority law in the French version that provides for the ballot if no candidate has obtained more than half of the votes in the college: it is a less severe majoritarian who tends to protect the second and sometimes the third political force of France, and allows alliances and desistences between first and second round. But what is being proposed to us now, ladies and gentlemen, this Italicum 2.0 is not, in my opinion - excuse me if I say so - neither in heaven nor on earth: it is a law that allows the candidate Premier voted by 40% of those who go to the polls to count on a large majority in Parliament, and if he does not exceed that quota would still give him that large majority after a ballot, that is after having prevailed over a challenger, thus giving to the investiture a force equal to that of direct universal suffrage. A very strong Premier, therefore, but a very weak Parliament. Members would, in fact, be elected in proportional terms, with the remains redistributed in the national college, with the possibility of multiple nominations, the capilist chosen directly by the Premier (or by mechanisms, the primary ones, entrusted to the good will of the party of belonging), and a hundred MPs, moreover, who arrive at the House only by virtue of the prize torn from the Premier. This is not a majority law. The combined arrangement provides for the plebiscytic election of a Premier and the lasting and institutionalized subordination of parliamentarians to the wishes of the winner or for part of the losing Premier candidates. Moreover, there are no barrier thresholds (they are very low), and if it makes sense to guarantee a right of stand for minor forces objectively it also promotes fragmentation. Is that what you want? Do you want a regime that revolves around one political force and one man, with fragmented and under-represented oppositions? Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen, that you have approved the reduction to 100 of the members of the Senate (which, moreover, were elected by a second grade vote) and that consequently who won the elections with Italicum in the House, by virtue of the majority prize, could appoint himself a President of the Republic and determine the majority of the Constitutional Court itself? The powers of the government and those of guarantee to a single leader, albeit young, unjudged and enlightened; a parliament instead delegitimized or, at best, shining only of reflected light. But what Western democracy - I ask you - has ever adopted such a law? If you have an example, let me know. I didn't find any. Or do we want to imitate Russia and Turkey? Don't do that, Senators. If the haste has now become the queen of the Italian political Olympus, if you want from this Senate a further act of obedience that is prodromic to the election of a President of the Republic chosen in a prudent at the top or object of a negotiation of power try at least to amend the Italicum; remove the multiple candidatures and the blocked capilists. Try to re-introduce the college, which is very different from a small constituency, being the ratio of the college to invest a representative of the people, that is, a woman or a man who responds directly to his voters, even to those who did not vote but knows him well: he chases him, talks to him, disputes him, if necessary, in the college. Try to change the Italicum and, please, don't talk about a safeguard clause anymore. Avoid at least giving the impression that the only thing that interests this Senate is the diary, with a kind of lengthening of the period in which we are given the privilege of limestone these places. For the rest, he dies Samson with all the Philistines. [[Applause from the PD Group and the senators Liuzzi, Minzolini and Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u28	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on the order of business. We learn, from an ANSA news that has been circulating since this morning, that an amendment or a maxi amendment - I do not know how to define it - will be tabled to the signature of the Leaders, so it can be seen, that it would in fact replace almost all the articles of this bill, applying Italicum as it comes out of the agreements that are obviously taking place elsewhere. I would ask you, Mr President, to protect the viability of this House and of every single spokesman in this House, because this amendment, which as you know procedurally, we may not even know until the deadline for tabling amendments has expired, i.e. at 19.59, would cancel and render impossible many, indeed all the amendments, if it was adopted or even if it was voted first, which I imagine and hope you do not do. However, it would actually cancel any possibility of change, cancel the debate and make nothing and absolutely useless all this general debate that has lasted since 20 December, with a break for Christmas holidays, and which is continuing these days in a semi-empty Chamber, with a ghost debate, because elsewhere someone else is deciding what will happen. Mr President, I would like to assure this House that, if necessary, it will be possible for all the spokesmen present in this House, including those of the majority, to subemend, with minor changes, so that they will not have any kind of de facto confidence in this electoral law, which could not be done. Therefore, Mr President, it is up to you, before the deadline for tabling amendments, to guarantee this possibility. It is perhaps a procedural constraint, but we have seen so many of them as a restriction on participation in the debate in this House, that perhaps this would ensure greater participation by everyone (the appeal is for everyone and not just for us members of the opposition), greater democracy and a greater chance of reaching a proper legal text. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u29	Senator Crimes, I'm sorry, did the agency you based your speech on indicate a deadline for the presentation, say anything about the timing? I'm asking you why this information is complete, since you're based on that agency. CRIMI (M5S). For information to be complete, Mr President, the concept is that today, at 8 p.m., the deadline for tabling amendments will expire. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The agency on which you were based was talking about a term? CRIMI (M5S). It will be tabled at 8 p.m., like so many other amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. 8:00? CRIMI (M5S). The problem is that since there is no rapporteur, there will be no possibility of submitting sub-amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is When amendments are tabled, the situations which may lead to such a deviation will be assessed. So don't worry, we'll look at all the requests that may result from the tabling of certain amendments. CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I take this as a commitment to ensure that this amendment is possible... When I say something, I don't need to commit: I already said it. [[Senator Bottici's laughter.]] Senator Bottici could laugh on other occasions. CRIMI (M5S). I take it that way, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u32	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we too want to put the same question, which is not only linked to agencies or voices, and then we will see it at 8 p.m. It is clear, however - and you, Mr President, are well aware of this - that we are here discussing the electoral law without rapporteur or rapporteur, because of a choice - or, as I call it, a coercion - made in this House on the eve of Christmas, as you will remember, in order to speed up the time and arrive in this Chamber without the work being done in the Commission. It is therefore clear that a problem arises, because if the Government were to table amendments, we would have every opportunity to sub-emend them, if instead the amendments which transpose those which the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, had tabled in the Commission, were perhaps only tabled by the majority, it is clear to everyone that there would be no possibility of sub-imposing. Not only that, but also according to the order for the amendments themselves to be put to the vote, we would have the effect of seeing all the amendments that each Group has tabled and that it had the right to table deleted. It is therefore clear that the matter is quite sensitive and we cannot arrive at a debate, a statement on the amendments which are apparently also intended to be made to the text of the Italicum from the House, risking not having the possibility of a debate and seeing all the amendments examined freely. It is very delicate because we are talking about the electoral law, Mr President, and because every day I hear appeals saying that we want to approve it with the help of everyone, we would like to know how everyone in this House can make their contribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u33	Senator De Petris, meanwhile, the deadline expires at 8:00 p.m., so there will be a chance to make all the evaluations. There are another 40 senators registered to speak for a total of about eight and a half hours or nine hours of general discussion. So the general debate will continue tomorrow and there will be every opportunity to address the issues in relation to the knowledge of the amendments that will be tabled. [[Comments of Senator Bulgarelli]] In any case, it seems to me that the debate took place in such a way that I have heard more than one intervention, including from your Group, in which we started from the amendments already assessed in the Commission. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I'm talking about a few speeches that I've heard in this respect. CRIMI (M5S). Don't "value yourself," Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Regardless of this, I do not go into the matter, but I say that, after the deadline for tabling amendments has expired, it will be up to the Presidency to assess the situation in relation to the proposals submitted, as well as in the debate that will follow tomorrow, it will be possible to intervene and make subsequent requests.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u36	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, on a personal basis, I would also ask you to be able to ensure that this House respects procedures that we see changing more and more frequently. In the preliminary constitutionality of this text, some Groups pointed out that an important article in the Constitution was violated by this procedure. I am referring to Article 72, which - I remind you - states exactly that the normal procedure of examination and direct approval by the House is always adopted for the constitutional drafts (and we knew it), electoral and legislative delegations, for the approval of ratification of international treaties, for the approval of budgets and for the adoption of conclusions. They are all central issues in the democratic life of a country, and I would like to call on you, Mr President, to be a guarantor, at an even more delicate stage than in the past, on the eve of the resignation of our Head of State, so in a political context that we must be able to guarantee to Italian citizens as transparent as possible. In homage to that transparency and respect for our Constitution, which cannot suddenly become a shredded paper for everyone, I ask you to be able to vouch for this House and for the senators elected in this branch of Parliament, as well as in the other branch that responsibility will be on someone else's shoulders. In this House, it is on its shoulders the responsibility for guaranteeing and protecting the Constitution and for a procedure which must not only make it appear but be as transparent as possible at a time when, on the eve of the election of a new Head of State, we, including through the observance of this procedure, make it clear to the Italians that there is no pact, no underlying agreement, no agreement that violates those fundamental democratic principles that see this as the Chamber of debate, this House of personal and political statements that the Italians can judge. We are, from procedure to procedure, turning everything upside down, and I am very much concerned, as are other colleagues, about a procedure that, behind regulatory quirks, actually hides a scam from Parliament and the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That fraud we must drive away and eliminate the doubt that it is consumed here, with the complicity or the unawareness of each of us, a fraud instead of an important political act such as, for a democratic country, an electoral law and above all the election of its Head of State. So behind those procedures there is not only a quirk, Mr President, but the real achievement and fulfilment of our democracy. It happens in the history of countries and peoples that every once in a while, every twenty or thirty years, we are faced with fundamental historical passages. I believe modestly that we are going through one of those steps and I want to go head-to-head outside this House, because I have not implied anything and I have done my duty in recalling these concepts, to ourselves first and to you, Mr President, as guarantor of democratic institutions, at a stage that will see you replace the Head of State in a few days' time and be the first office of the State, so that you are aware, like so many of us, that the fate of a democracy is at stake here. I do not want to overdo this, Mr President, because I have already seen amendments '01', I have already seen early amendments to prevent or cause other amendments to lapse; of course, but in normal decrees, and not when this concerns an electoral law which, for Article 72 of the Constitution, is a sacred matter. I ask you to respect this sacredness so that we can all get out of this House by voting on a good or bad electoral law. This will be decided by the Italians, but it is necessary that the Italians are put in a position to know that everything happens here is transparent and is not decided only from other parts, and it is shared by that popular will that is represented here. Thank you, Mr President, for what you want to do to ensure that not only the Senate, but the whole of Italy, respect for democratic rules. [[Applause from the groupsFI-PdL XVII, PD, M5S and Misto-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u39	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I would like to reassure my colleague, Mr Petrocelli (M5S). Just your partner. TONINI (PD). ...and the other colleagues who have spoken that there is no force and that we are certain that the President, as always, will guarantee... PETROCELLI (M5S). You. TONINI (PD). ...the Rules of Procedure. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] If you want to reason, let's reason. I have listened patiently to you and would claim to have the same listening in the brief words I want to utter. The normal procedure has so far been followed, as our Rules of Procedure provide, which excludes such matters from being dealt with in the Commission's deliberations. The examination in the Commission has not been completed, but this is a normal procedure provided for in our Rules of Procedure which, where the time limits for examination in the Commission expire, and where there is a finding that it is not possible to conclude them there, requires the House to pass the papers. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Not for electoral law. TONINI (PD). Even for electoral law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please don't do unauthorized surgery. Please, Senator Tonini, continue. TONINI (PD). The normal procedure provided for in the electoral law, for example for the international treaties that the Foreign Commission is constantly dealing with, excludes that the examination can be concluded in the Commission, because rightly, as Senator Bonfrisco said, all the senators are entitled to examine carefully all the measure under consideration, which cannot be entrusted only to the members of a Commission. The House is therefore fully sovereign. There is a deadline at 8 p.m. and all the amendments will be put on the table. The amendment we are talking about, however, is the only one that is known: it is the only one that is discussed in the media and has been discussed in depth in this House for hours and hours, because it is the only one that has been talked about entirely in the light of day. CRIMI (M5S). But it can't be amended. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crimes, please, you have already spoken and expressed your thoughts. Let me talk. TONINI (PD). The amendments are all the same and are tabled equally by 8 p.m. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] The President has already said - and I am referring, of course, to his words - that, where there is a need to carefully consider procedural arrangements allowing particular forms of examination, this will of course be decided by the Presidency, but on the basis of reading the papers, not a priori. [[Comments of Senator Endrizzi]] At the moment we know that the deadline for tabling amendments is set at 8 p.m. and that everyone, exactly everyone, is playing even arms in this democratic confrontation match, which will still see us engaged several hours in a debate in the general debate that already incorporates the changes that have been announced (just read the Report). ENDRIZZI (M5S). Do we need to know from the press? TONINI (PD). By the majority. By the majority who publicly announced the changes he will propose. ENDRIZZI (M5S). You brought us to the House with a ghost text. TONINI (PD). There is no phantom text: we are following the procedure: at 8 p.m. the amendment will be tabled and at that time everything will be... ENDRIZZI (M5S). You have to go back to the Commission. We do not know this amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi, you don't have the floor. TONINI (PD). No one knows what your amendments are. That seems to me to be the reality. Trying to feed a climate of suspicion right now, I think, is completely wrong for our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u41	I thought the intervention of the vice president of the group might be enough. However, he has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u42	Mr Fornaro (PD). Mr President, I listened to the speech by the Vice-President of the Group, who clarified some passages. Frankly, however, I did not find the call of my colleagues Crimi and De Petris out of place; it is a reminder that seems to me, in some way, also shared by Senator Tonini, who seems to have repeated a series of passages. There is one point, however, which must be clear and, from this point of view, I believe there are elements of justification. An account is a political agreement, which is transformed into a series of amendments and therefore, in the course of the debate, it is going to enrich and change, in a parliamentary dynamic, individual parts; another account is to think of a sort of maxi parliamentary amendment which, in fact, once adopted, prevents or severely limits debate and confrontation. Obviously, I believe that this would be a mistake, and above all I believe that the reference to the role of the Presidency and, therefore, to a role that allows this House to express the correct parliamentary confrontation (a principle which always applies, but even more so, in my view, applies to the electoral law), must be shared. As far as I am concerned, of course, I have complete and absolute confidence in the Presidency. In conclusion, I would like to be clear on a point that I believe should apply to our reasoning, also to the future. Personally, I am not shocked by the political agreements taken out of this House: there have always been and always will be, it is the role of the parties. What is different, however, in my opinion, is that no political agreement - which, I repeat, is absolutely legitimate - can erase the right and duty of this Senate, or at least one of the Chambers, to discuss the merits of the electoral law and approve a text. That should be the objective, because we are talking about the rules of the game, which should hopefully have the broadest possible consensus. It is clear, therefore, that the logic of the amendments, in a situation which is certainly exceptional - not having been completed in the Commission and not having the rapporteur in this House - should, from this point of view, be allowed. I therefore believe that the Presidency will be able to find solutions so that this right-duty that I remember can be fully exercised by all the senators, independently or in line with political agreements that have been and will always be there. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u44	Senator Bulgarelli, Senator Crimi has already spoken for his Group. However, if you have a different position to express, you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u45	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, as has already been pointed out, it could be very serious that we do not put our trust in a large amendment by the Government, but instead that a large amendment is lodged by the majority, thereby virtually circumventing the Rules of Procedure. It is not a matter of wanting to give rise to a climate of suspicion, but we ask the Presidency - with which, at other times, there have been problems - that, where a large amendment is tabled that sweeps away everything else, of course, a time should be given to examine it. We hope that this major amendment will not then be of the majority, but that an amendment will be tabled that can be submeditated; otherwise the Rules of Procedure and the Presidency will once again, as has been the case with constitutional reform, create practices that were not there before and that will remain in history, so that they can be taken out at any time during the course of Parliament's work. Creating practices by circumventing the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure of the Upper House of the Senate is a very serious matter. I appeal to you, Mr Grasso, especially considering that, given the forthcoming resignation of the President of the Republic, you will be called to take an even more super-partes position. I therefore invite you to become a guarantee body from here, so that we all relax, thinking about when you will take over the office of that guarantee body which is the President of the Republic, even if only protempore. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u46	Let us continue with the general discussion. Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u47	Mr President, let us return to the general debate, hoping that everything will be all right. The Italicum was brought to the Chamber with twitter, before the examination was completed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to satisfy the need to make a gift to the Italians before the Chambers were distracted from the legislative work for the election of the Head of State. Many criticisms have been made of the first version approved by the Chamber of Deputies; many jurists have pointed out their disappointment at an electoral reform that reproduces, with a few changes, the electoral system that the Consulta has cancelled with sentence No 1 of 2014, maintaining in the first place a huge majority prize; secondly, the blocked lists and, finally, the doubling of the barrier thresholds. In the passage to the Senate I must say that it is announced, among other things, a decisive worsening of the bad reform approved by the House. The majority prize will not be applied to the coalition, but to the single list that, exceeding a certain threshold, will get one more vote than the others, or that will prevail in the ballot. Moreover, the foreseeable dissent of the smaller parties, excluded from the coalition's advantage, would be tacit with a 3% reduction in the barrier threshold. The privilege of blocked lists will then be substantially preserved, making the leader blocked with an electoral system based on short lists. With this system, in practice, the political majority and government leadership would be attributed by law to a single party, regardless of the will of the sovereign people. I refer to what Enrico Letta, as President of the Council, said on 5 June 2013: What we are doing is due to a state of exception, I agree with this and with the programme on which Parliament has given us confidence. I wanted to make an excursus about this exception state. It is the state theorized in 1921 by Carl Schmitt, a political scientist and jurist who considered the dictatorship legitimate, if interpreted as a temporary and exceptional measure. Schmitt identified two types of dictatorship: that commissioner and the sovereign one. The first is the exception, which aims to restore the existing Constitution, while the second is due to a game of force put in place by the political power that intends to create a new order. The extension of legislative power to the executive, with the consequent weakening of the constitutional prerogatives of Parliament and the principle of separation of powers, is linked to two emergency orders: war or the economic crisis. The highest expression of the executive's intrusiveness in legislative activity was achieved with the Nazi regime, where the words of the Führer took on the force of law. In Italy, the exception state manifests itself through the decree of urgency. From the fascist governments to this day it has become a practice, so we can speak of a state of permanent exception. The consequence is that Parliament no longer represents the sovereign body of legislative power, which is increasingly absorbed by the executive. Addressing one's political work to such a regime could conceal a clear political will to cross any democratic barrier. What awaits us? It is very difficult for me to say this at this time, but the exception that is taking place at this political stage is moving in two directions: one towards presidentialism and the other towards an extension of the political powers of international organizations. What unites these two visions is the centralization of powers in the hands of a few. And to achieve this, we need a weakening of the national Parliament. In our country, from April 24th, 1944 (second Badoglio Government) until today, there have always been governments of coalition, or at least supported by a majority coalition. In 1948, when the DC obtained an absolute majority of seats, De Gasperi also preferred to form a coalition government, to ensure a minimum of pluralism that would allow him not to remain "prisoner" of his political godparents in the Vatican. With the majority system established by the Mattarella law and then with the Porcellum, in Italy governments supported by a majority coalition have always alternated. This has allowed a certain political dialectic to be maintained in the determination of government choices. We are therefore faced with a Jacobine turn that artificially assures all power to one party. This is transformed into an oligarchic system of power, a lordship with one or a few men in command and waterproof to any conditioning, even of its own voters. The only example of a single party to the Government in Italy we had in 1924, the result of the Acerbo law, which allowed the political leader of the moment to have a Parliament subject to his powers and wills, allowing him to get rid of the coalitions that represented an obstacle to the realization of his political program. The Acerbo law, through a huge majority prize secured to a single list, attributed the control of the political majority and the government to one party. The government no longer depended on Parliament, but Parliament depended on the government: this is what happened. The Acerbo law was the decisive instrument that allowed Mussolini to overturn the Constitution of the time and to complete his political project. That is why we cannot ignore the constitutional value of the electoral law, which is clear to all the theorists of the rule of law. Two hundred years ago Domenico Romagnosi observed that: The theory of elections is nothing more than the theory of the political existence of the Constitution... When electoral law is radically changed, it is the Constitution that is being called into question. It is absurd that in Italy we want to impose electoral systems that our country has already experienced with disastrous results, as if history did not exist and memory should be kept out of politics. A country that loses its historical memory is destined to relive the facts that it has forgotten. Let's remember this. Another alarm concerns the hypothesis of electoral reform that weakens the essential constitutional foundation of equality of representation. A possible scenario, in fact, could be that, in a first round and, even more so, in a second, a non-majoritarian party could take almost everything, populistic antechamber of a creeping presidentialism, which - admitted by Minister Boschi himself - could be the second act of a upheaval in the course of work. Also, a Senate that no longer represents the nation, but the local institutions, what powers does it maintain? Too few, because it no longer performs any function of internal counter-power and control of the House, and at the same time too many, if it contributes to establishing constitutional laws and elects the President of the Republic and two constitutional judges. In fact, it represents just over 1,000 great voters, a comma compared to the whole nation (in France there are at least 150,000), with the result that the counterpowers and controls would be carried out, at this point, only by the judiciary and by movements of political and social opposition increasingly foreign and external to the institutions. Who should have minorities humiliated and outside the institutions? Who needs a dictatorship of the majority? These are questions to which we are forced by the worrying regressions that are taking place, presented as creative innovations. Is this the Republic that we want to present as a necessary turning point in civilization? Or is it rather the sign of a democracy in crisis, which plans to strengthen itself with authoritarian systems, which instead weaken it further? A certain winner on the evening of the elections: this is the vaguely twilight philosophy that inspires the agreement of the Nazarene and that is now reiterated in the final text, signed after the umpteenth meeting. Already here, in echoing as an institutional culture the verses of "Ed" are immediately evening, there are enormous problems of political interpretation. The name Italicum is appropriate to the device being perfected, because it is a remedy from a foreign country: in no political system of ancient and new constitution the will to predetermine a winner reaches such grotesque results; the governability as a myth assumes to the Nazarene disturbing twilight colors, and it is the evening of representative democracy that is announced with the creative contribution of two similar reformers. No electoral system in the world attributes certain victory, because it is only through the definition of representation that the forms of government are expressed. If, within the choice of representation, no one is able to obtain an absolute majority of seats, coalitions are used. It happens all over Europe: in Germany, now, they have made us callo and even in the alleged universe of the perfect bipartitism that is England there is a coalition government. A certain winner is only one with the direct election of a monocratic office, but in a parliamentary regime there can be no simulation of a direct election of the Government without thereby causing deep distortions and apparent institutional forcings. Italicum, on the other hand, continues to march in the bankruptcy of a de facto presidentialism and to support this masked presidentialism are completely functional the disappearance of the single-member districts and the mistreatment of preferences. The nominations are without authority and political autonomy, because in the design of the reformers just so they serve, simple numbers to act as outline. They appear as equivalent of the elected to the conventions of the presidential regimes, i.e. they serve as a scenic accompaniment to a leader who presumes - and in the Italian case it is only a matter of presumption - to have a mystical contact with the people. (18.34) (Romani Maurizio followed). The Nazarene's device, which includes 100 circuits, with as many capilists blocked, is the clumsy device to allow the head to rely on persons with high fidelity and proven spirit of servitude. This logic of a private domain, however, does not respond in any way to the objections that led the Consulta to pronunciation of the old Calderoli electoral law. In fact, with the rediscovery of the 100 circuits, it is possible, on the basis of the current relationships of force, to appoint without any choice of voters about 450 MPs (300 for the three major parties, about 60 for the League and all the elected of the bushes crossing the threshold of 3%). Re-introduced preferences would, at best, cover no more than 200 Members. It should also be added that the use of microcirculation does not in any way encourage the direct relationship between the territory and the individual Member of Parliament. In fact, it seems that in the mechanism in gestation it is not with the victory in the territories that we win the seat, determining from the bottom the governability, but with the national quota to each list that we reach the distribution in the various plurinomial colleges of the seats due. This attributing seats from above is indeed paradoxical; there is no connection between the voter's will and the outcome of the competition in his constituency. A candidate could even reach an absolute majority of votes in his own college and, however, not grab the seat if his list then does not exceed the national barrier. There would be districts with an army of elected and others with the risk of being underrepresented. I mean, let's call it a buzzard. A concentration so informed of twilight electoral philosophies and technical improvisation that it pushes to the limits of amateurism will keep politics blocked for other months still. [[Applause from Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u48	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of electoral law is at the same time of decisive importance for a country and a stomacant for Italian public opinion. It is important because it is the heart of the democratic mechanism: the British electoral reforms of 1800, the judicial disputes in the United States over the borders of the electoral colleges and, for example, the story of Turkish laws in the 1990s and 2000s, which have very high barriers, are there to tell us that the issue is not purely domestic. Domestic, exquisitely Italian and, therefore, now stomacante is however the circumstance that twenty-three years have been discussed obsessively about electoral law in Italy. In these twenty-three years we have eliminated the preferences by a referendum, then introduced the majority of the college, then adopted a porcata law (defined in this way by those who advocated it and not by me), to finally find ourselves with a sentence of the Constitutional Court that has declared illegitimate the law of 2005 and consequently with a bill approved by the House. This draft, moreover, is being discussed every day in more or less official conciliations and in the newspapers, so much so that the amendment 1,5000 by the rapporteur and President Finocchiaro would already be overcome by the idea of the President-in-Office of the Council to reduce the number of colleges to reduce the number of so-called blocked capilistas. It is an unbelievable chaos for us parliamentarians, let alone for ordinary people who have to put together lunch with dinner. Article 49 of the Constitution sets out all the premises that must guide us in the drafting of the electoral law. This law must allow the free and democratic participation of all citizens in determining national policy. Article 49 is the result of the acquisitions of the first half of the 20th century: political parties must be places open to participation and genuine content debate; they are interpreters of interests, instances and cultures; they must be places of selection of a ruling class that can actually constitute the hegemony class in a society, in favour of the advancement of the community as a whole. The parties are therefore essential. Attention, however, the parties are a means to participate and not an end. These concepts can be found not only in gramscian notebooks, but also, with a different cut, in Churchill's speeches and in De Gaulle's experience, when he invited the French from London to resume their destiny in their own hands. The need is therefore to link participation, dynamic and sustainable society, effective access to the mechanisms of politics, on the one hand, and the electoral system, on the other. In the United Kingdom this problem is solved at the root with the dry single-member system: every five years the seat in the House of Commons is open to the competition and compares personalities, programs, cultures and ideas. The citizens know, on the evening of the elections, who won in that college and, except for rare cases, who won at national level. In France, public participation in the determination of national policy is guaranteed by the dual turn of the college. That same system also guarantees governance, although, for several years now, the contemporaneity of the presidential and legislative elections has given the entire French architecture a hyper-presidentialist twist. This is my personal experience as a militant and an exponent of the Democratic Party, which is recognised in paragraph 5.1 of the 2014 ruling in law. This brings me to the remarks of the Constitutional Court on Law No 270 of 2005. The Court imputes to the so-called Porcellum two reliefs. Firstly, the majority prize is taken for the mere fact of bringing back an extra vote, regardless of a minimum threshold; secondly, citizens are unable to make an effective choice among candidates, because blocked circuit lists deprive them of all power. The Constitutional Court says, in essence, that blocked lists are made by parties for parties (almost parties were ended in themselves) and not by parties for citizens. Moreover, the lack of a threshold for access to the majority award ensures the highest degree of governability, but completely frustrates participation and representation. The Italicum approved by the Chamber of Deputies is not adequate to restore democratic and participatory vitality to the electoral system. It has been said, paraphrasing Lombardo Radice and Lidia Ravera, that it is a Porcellum with wings. In fact, blocked lists in no way restore the power of decision over elected members to the voter, because they are children of a proportional and non-majority perspective. With the dry union, dear to my friend Giachetti in the Chamber and also to me (I have tabled amendments to this effect), we can instead vote for the candidate proposed by the party or against that candidate, opting for the opponent: in the majority college passes only one elected and not the first two or three as with the Italicum. Some argue that the circuit lists - with about 100 or 120 electoral districts (i.e. with so many court lists) - would be saved from censures of constitutionality. Apart from the fact that I have just shown that it would not be a faithful reading of judgment No 1 of 2014 and that any proposals to reduce the number of colleges would make the situation worse, it seems to me a legal flaw and I am not interested. I do not want an electoral law that falls short of the keen scrutiny of the judges: I want an electoral law that restores Italian democracy to health and that makes the country dynamic, contestable, open and participated. Ultimately, I am opposed to the system proposed by the text of the House. I repeat: it is a historic Italian mistake to frequently change electoral law, where the great Western democracies have more or less the same law for many tens - if not hundreds - of years: United Kingdom, United States, Germany and Spain, for example. Allow me one last remark: the primary elections, even with the problems of a young institution for our country, are a positive result of the last ten years. Matteo Renzi has walked his way with the power of the primary; many of us have lived a party that can be contended with the primary; many millions of citizens have felt they are part of a project and an exciting adventure with the primary. The possibility of compulsory primary elections - with sufficient margin for guarantee in their conduct - would therefore be a good step forward in the law, as it would provide voters with a significant space for participation. Our debate on such an important topic takes place looking at today's alleged conveniences, searching the day by day, without understanding that the legislator's task is to be forward-looking and stimulate the best energies of Italian society, to encourage them and to engage in democratically contesting the leadership of the country. Italicum, until now, is not this. [[Applause from Senators Albano and Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u50	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u51	Madam President, today we are debating electoral law for one House of this Parliament, the House of Deputies. Someone has decided that the Senate, the High House, is no longer functional. We have to reform it, change it. What line? Are we going back instead of forward? Does the left turn right? Who can Explain it to us? Who decides that? In December, this House was able to vote for confidence in a monco measure: it was the law of stability, which was wrong in its form, and therefore the substance of which was no longer understood. Mickey Mouse was better written. Luckily, she went back to the House, where they saw her again. And we're here talking about monocameralism? With this political class, it's the biggest stupidity you can hear and do. A common citizen would expect rules for a clean, uncondemned Parliament, rules that would restore lustre to this institution. Instead of making up parties? A second level Senate composed of regional councillors and mayors who choose each other. But what value do we give to the citizens' vote? If I vote for a mayor, it's because I want you to run my town. With what right does Parliament decide today that my vote is worth less, that the administrator I have chosen should also do a second job? Some already find it hard to be a good mayor, let alone to come to Rome. If the constitutional reform still has to pass the popular referendum, and Mr Boschi has promised that it will also be done if the constitutional reform is approved with two thirds, what electoral law are we doing? The clause that establishes the entry of the electoral law only after the referendum is a joke. If citizens fail reform, what do we do? We're not voting anymore? Do the Rooms remain in charge for life? Do you make a new law for both rooms? You don't have to know that. But, calmly, the only problem in the buildings is to guarantee the right to pension for the future former Members of this Parliament, even if we do not reach the age of five. The government then ensures that there will be big savings on the Senate budget. I would like to remind you that the Senate budget has fixed costs, including the pensions of former Members, which amount to approximately 81 million, and of former employees, equal to 121 million. Members' allowances cost approximately 41 million and reimbursements cost 36 million. By including travel, we arrive at a total cost of about 80 million. However, even the new senators will be entitled to refunds to move, which will fall - according to Renzi - on the budgets of the entities of which they belong, municipalities and regions, who already struggle to give services to their citizens today. What does it matter? Somehow they'll do it! They will sell public water, remove public health, transport, all essential services for the population. But is Italy's problem the 80 million euros that the senators cost? If we save that money, will the economy start again? Will unemployment fall? Explain it to us. Ah, no! Maybe I understand: that's not the problem. The problem for you is democracy in Italy. Citizens still have too much power, they can choose. Let's take that possibility away from them, too. Let's keep them face to face, so politics can keep doing its dirty games. This is your project. We parliamentarians of the 5 Star Movement are just some citizens who still have clear that the people must remain sovereign, as established by the Constitution, and we will not move from here without giving battle. Don't worry. It's not over yet. It will not be today, it will not be tomorrow, but the citizens will wake up and you will be finished! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Minzolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u53	Madam President, in the meantime, I would like to make a brief statement saying that the issues that have been raised before me by Senators Crimi, De Petris, Bonfrisco, Fornaro and Bulgarelli have a fundamental motivation to bear in mind. I believe that there is a majority right to table amendments. But if it were a major amendment by chance, it is clear that one way or another, in order to avoid forcing, the senators should be given sufficient time to submit sub-amendments. This is so that there is no forced force and, after having already created problems that are not indifferent with the previous ones, no other one is created for the future. In my speech, I would like to focus mainly on the timing of the new electoral law that we are about to vote on. I will speak about the many shadows of the measure when I explain the amendments, but already that we have to talk about its time of application shows how well the opinion of this House on the reform under consideration is articulated. There are those who, like the Government, consider it the panacea of all evils, the solution to the thousand problems of our country and those who, instead, think that this thesis is an alibi with which the Executive tries to hide the ineffectiveness of its policies and that, even, the provision can become a source of new trouble. I place myself more on this second side than on the first. However, let us return to the time of application of the law. It is not a question of goat wool, nor of a phobia towards the hypothesis of early elections of which it has been said not little in recent months. Moreover, those who speak to you have repeatedly, in the past, requested the return to the ballot box, as the chronicles testify. I asked for it in the wake of the election results of 2013, which gave no confidence on the level of governability, and I asked for the early elections after the fall of the Letta Government, that is, at the end of the cycle of large coalition governments, since public opinion could be asked for a judgment on that type of policy and give life, in the wake of a popular consultation, to another season. It would have been implemented, in short, a correct logic, which was not wanted to be done. However, going to the vote now, in the wake of an electoral reform approved in haste and fury, would have another meaning, of much other sign. Such a hypothesis, in fact, would taste more like a handstroke than a correct political passage. Why do I say that? Because in our country, as is evident to all, institutional reforms have never been made and the transition from one phase of the Republic to another has been determined in the past only by a change of the electoral law. Now, the objective is to reform our institutions and change the electoral law at the same time, a legitimate and necessary ambition. But it is pointless to add that it is logical that an electoral reform, designed as a result of a single-camera reform of our institutions, should only be applied after the entry into force of the new constitutional rules. To understand that this is a "sine qua non " condition, you don't have to be constitutionalists, you just have to resort to common sense. How do you use an electoral law designed to elect only the House in a scenario where you still have to elect the Senate? This is Monsieur de La Palisse. Yet, this obvious condition is still a subject of negotiation. It is clear that, until there is an amendment by the Government and the majority that addresses - and effectively - the issue, the willingness expressed by the Government a few days ago will remain a pious intention. You don't want me to do this: just this statement shows that we are not a normal country. What in another country would be considered a logical procedure, almost obliged, by us becomes a concession of the Government. In fact, it is not a concession to anyone but reason, which would reassure everyone, make it easier to compare the individual points of the law and create that climate of trust, indispensable when dealing with rules, which is not there now. The real problem is that there is no trust. I spoke out of hand before, and I didn't do it out of proportion. It cannot be defined otherwise the intention - if this is not denied by the future behaviour of the Government - to impose a new electoral law and to apply it immediately, without giving way neither to the other parties nor to the other protagonists to equip themselves and to organize themselves in order to be competitive in the new scenario. It is as if, at the beginning of the championship, a football team had the power to abolish the off-game and did not give time to the opposing teams to adapt their tactics to the new rule. We'd be in front of a rigged championship. Well, what is likely to happen in our policy is not so different: the electoral reform in question, in fact, introduces a dual-shift majority system, with a majority prize to which the coalitions compete, but only the parties. In short, the establishment of the old law is overturned; as the scheme contained in what has been called the Nazarene Pact, which has been modified 17 times, is also distorted, so much so that the initial agreement has not even remained the shadow. In short, for now the only political subject equipped with the starting tapes for this type of race would be the PD, which in fact is imposing an electoral law made in the image and likeness of itself, transformed - according to the design of its leader - already into a sort of party of the nation. All the other runners, in fact, would not be in a position to compete. If we vote right away, then we'll start a rigged race. But since this isn't just any race, we would create a rigged democracy. It would be a way not to renew our democracy, but to break it permanently. That is why the timing is important, and the debate in this House should begin with a clear framework on this point as well. And the first to have interest in this happening is precisely the Premier, who for months, on the subject of electoral law, pushes with his foot on the accelerator, insinuating suspicions about suspicions: a behavior that makes no sense, since - in his opinion - he himself would like the legislature to come to a natural maturity. It would be good, therefore, for this evening, before the deadline for tabling amendments, to come a clear proposal, the so-called safeguard clause, which combines two conditions on the timing of the application of the law: the entry into force of the constitutional reform and a reference date before which the new electoral law cannot be used, which could be identified in the middle of next year. The government's willingness - apparently - is there, but in these situations experience teaches us that we must move on to the facts: verba volant, scripta manent. It would gain the quality of the comparison: the mountain of amendments would fail and we could concentrate on the main points of the reform. I have three people, who are connected to me if we want to create an electoral reform that has its own intrinsic harmony: the issue of the prize for the list or coalition, the question of thresholds and the question of preferences. Let's make a premise right now. The combination between constitutional reform and electoral law makes the party secretary who wins the elections the dominus of the political system of this country. I have already said that a leader, who for a number of rules was managing so much power, would have a more coherent legitimacy if he were elected directly by the citizens. In fact, so much power is given to the President of a Republic more than to a party secretary. Allow me to provoke you: even in the discussed Russian democracy it is better a Putin than a Breznev. This is precisely why, in the system we are putting in place, we must find counterweights; but, above all, we must identify the area where a democratic dialectic can be held that conditions the exercise of power by the leader of the majority party which, despite being a minority in the country, would control Parliament thanks to the prize. This requirement leads me first of all to make an excursus on the prize to the list. Firstly, we do not understand why, if the prize is given to the list, and so try to create a bi-party system, then set down low thresholds for access to representation which, in fact, favour fragmentation. It is an extravagant choice, unless you aim to create a system centered on a large nation party (such as the former DC), self-sufficient (but this was not even allowed to the DC), surrounded by a myriad of parties, and a medium-sized party relegated to the perennial role of opposition. However, if we were to give the low threshold for entry into Parliament - and I have nothing against this - then it would be more logical to organize the competition for the country's leadership between two coalitions, and not between two parties. In this way the democratic dialectic would take place within the coalition and the superpower of the leader of the majority party would be mitigated. It is clear, however, that, if we stick to the prize on the list, then the ground of democratic confrontation should be sought within the party that would benefit from the prize. At that point, it is clear that, in order to mitigate the overpower of the party leader, it would be necessary to resort to preferences or, in any case, to a system that would not allow the party secretary to choose the majority of the elected. And it is certainly not the proposal of the capilists stuck to meet this need. At least that's my opinion. One cannot give a single person the power to choose the elect of his party, to be the Premier, to choose the President of the Republic and most constitutional judges. Such a system does not exist in the world, not even in China. As you can see, then, these three themes - list or coalition prize, thresholds and preferences - are closely linked and it will be difficult to find a balance point. But, precisely in order to devote ourselves with serenity to such delicate issues, it would be appropriate to wipe out immediately and definitively the suspicions about the time of application of the law - this is my advice - also because this issue could affect not little the choice of the next President of the Republic. If the question were to remain open and if the solution were not convincing, it is clear that my vote would go to a personality who would guarantee a correct passage, even in the times, between the second and third Republics. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u54	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u55	Madam President, I must say with bitterness that we are talking and discussing nothing today. The demonstration is given - I say this to the citizens who see the fixed shot from home - by the presence of more or less 30 senators in this House, but above all by an absence: that of Senator Verdini, who is present only when it is necessary to control the fate and movements of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So, let's discuss nothing. It would be nice and normal, in a parliamentary Republic, to discuss and confront an electoral law inspired by ideals of democracy, of the common good; a written electoral law listening to the legitimate wishes of citizens, just as we did, involving them online. We also tried to dialogue with Renzi, but he, as well as a liar - as we all know by now - is hypocritical: he pretended to listen to us and then show off the only skill in which he is excellent, that is to waste time with chatter and promises. What Renzi needs is a monocolored majority, unmovable for five years or for twenty years, and the annoyance of a real opposition gives him a bit of annoyance. To succeed, what did Renzi do? He has come to terms with a criminal and entered into a mysterious agreement outside Parliament. What is within the Nazarene covenant is not yet known. Perhaps there is a sinking of the anti-corruption law. I remember Renzi here, maybe last July, promised it, but then he blocked it. Maybe it's about grace. Who knows? Perhaps it is the gift of the decriminalization of tax fraud up to 3% of the impossibile, on which Renzi apparently turned back only after it was discovered. And I recall that, at the request of clarification in this House, the so-called Democratic Party gagged, through Senator Tonini, the request of another senator of the PD, my chairman of the Cows Commission. Renzi and Berlusconi are bartering outside Parliament, and the citizens and democracy are paying for this. We who are exversaries of anti-politics want to write, instead, the rules with the citizens. Professional politicians prefer to trade favors behind closed doors. I would like to remind you that last month, here in the Senate, we hit the bottom when we were forced to vote in the middle of the night on the government's maxi amendment to the law of stability: a text - as admitted by you too - written with the feet, full of errors of form and substance and even with missing parts; a proven proof, if not of incompetence, at least of overapprehension. Despite this, you approved everything in the dark, without even having the material time - I always tell the citizens - to evaluate a text of 167 pages plus the tables: a madness. President Grasso - a pity that has now been replaced, because I wanted to tell him in person - then justified himself with the press saying: my duty is to carry out a task, which is to have the majority vote what they can put together to make the country go on. Basically Grasso described the establishment of the President of the Senate as a guarantor of the majority, bound by the obligation to have everything that the Government puts under his nose, in spite of Article 8 of the Senate Rules, allowing any filth to be presented to him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I'm just asking you to pay attention to language. The opinion is free - as you know - but it takes attention. CASTALDI (M5S). It's not an opinion. I reported facts and a quote from the President. I told the truth. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me for interrupting, but I was calling you back to language. CASTALDI (M5S). I only brought back real facts. That is also why I say that we are debating nothing and we are debating in a Chamber run by those who have repeatedly shown a lack of impartiality, in short, any Schifani. This House is full of nominations, ready to vote for anything to keep it from blowing up. Everything is allowed if it serves to hold on to an armchair that many would never see in the event of a vote, just because they have never been voted by anyone, and they are here just because they are stuck by their leaders party in the unconstitutional lists of the Porcellum. The way in which you quickly and furiously took up the general debate on the electoral law without ending the work in the Commission, still in breach of Article 72 of the Constitution, which provides to follow the complete process for the electoral bill, shows that you have no intention of discussing it. You sail on sight in the craving of ratifying a dark and extra-parliamentary pact. The electoral law is very important because, with this bad law or, worse still, tailored to the personal interests of two heads, there can be no real democracy. They testify every year with the Porcellum. We are already at the third President-in-Office of the Council not passed through the vote. Yet, I do not believe that the electoral law is the first thought of the Italians and, since you are not asking us how to help you improve the electoral law, but just pretend that we do our part in this farce, in this blind race towards the unconditional approval of a tight pact between a serial liar and a criminal, I would then prefer to talk about something else, about things that perhaps interest the citizens, since it is to them that I address. Rather than the barrier threshold, I would like this House to explain why in my city (Vasto), but I also think in others, the exemption for disabled people from paying the waste tax has been abolished. Always in my city, I would like to understand why public lighting has been expected in some neighborhoods for thirty years. I would also like to understand, always in my city, why a 100% disabled person, on the day of Christmas Vigil, has been delivered a letter that, peremptoryly, the intimates pay 300 euros of TARI by December 31, while someone flies on vacation at 9,000 euros per hour, paid by us. I am referring to a President-in-Office of the Council who then, caught up in the second act, in a few days, hides his responsibilities by talking about rules, protocols, security, etc. Too bad that, in 2013, at least Letta had the good sense to go on vacation on a scheduled flight. This contrast between your bitterness against the weakest and the excesses of the privileged means that you have lost all sense of humanity and decency. Rather than talking about majority prizes, I would like to ask why in the milleproroghe it is absent - for example - the blockade of evictions by finite lease and why tens of thousands of low-income families with children, elderly or disabled, risk being evicted and end up in the middle of a road for an expired but paid rent contract regularly. Rather than the electoral law, I would like us to talk about pensions, which have been cut by a few tens of euros this month. When an 80 euro electoral march is promised, everyone needs to know. When, on the other hand, pensions are cut because GDP has been lower than expected and inflation accounts do not return to them, everyone is silent. Then we say so. I would like to be able to tell the members of the CUPLA (Unitary Coordination of Pensioners of Self-employment) that I believe they have written to all of us senators, that the Senate is looking for a way to increase minimum pensions, as they have proposed. On the other hand, your indifference and gratuitousness has come to nibble a few euros even at disability pensions, which are already shameful and miserable alms less than 300 euros per month. We are here to discuss, but only in theory: how can we hope to discuss with those who snubbe all forms of dialogue? You are allergic to the existence of real opposition, you are not used to it: you go ahead with the arrogance and arrogance of your numbers in Parliament, but you did not get it by winning the elections, but by unconstitutional laws and a post-election agreement between parties that pretended to be opponents in the electoral campaign. Renzi, with his more than thirty trusts, has shown that he does not want to know about discussions; he has shown that, for him, Chamber and Senate represent nothing but offices where decisions taken elsewhere are approved, who knows how and who knows who. With his statements on monstrous abstentionism in the elections in Emilia-Romagna, defined as a secondary problem, Renzi made it clear how little the amount of democratic participation of the people. His only interest is to change the rules of the game as he pleases, in agreement with the fake oppositions, to secure the victory in the next election. At this point I am really addressing the citizens. Abstention is the greatest gift citizens can give politicians [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because the lower the turnout, the more the bundles of votes controlled by parties, lobbyists, criminal friends and the exchange vote weigh. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Go vote. How can we discuss electoral law with parties that, from right to left, have been involved in the scandals of Expo 2015, MOSE and Mafia Capitale in a single year? If there was room for discussion, I would say that we citizens want an electoral law that allows us to choose directly our representatives in Parliament, as is provided for in the Constitution. I would say that we want preferences, but that they are true preferences, and not new blocked and disguised lists to formally avoid the unconstitutionality of Porcellum. We want to be able to choose Members who are not investigated, put to trial and convicted. After that, you make the electoral law, but at least respect these key points. We want the Senate to remain elective and not become, as you are making it, a free zone in which parties can recycle and secure their condemned, protected by parliamentary immunity, without being elected by the Italians, as provided for by the constitutional reforms complementary to Italicum. We want the percentage of seats and the majority prize to be reasonably proportional to the percentage of votes obtained. No more prestigious games that absurdly alter the balance in Parliament with respect to the verdict of the ballot boxes. No on the threshold of barriers designed to exclude from the games new political forces outside the choir, preventing them from accessing Parliament and the possibilities of development. But an area of discussion between us citizens and you party politicians cannot exist, and the reason is very simple: we citizens have entered with our spokesmen in the institutions and we intend to stay and increase. We have every intention of strengthening and using the democratic instruments of referendums and popular initiative laws, of cleaning up the palaces of power from the condemned, lobbyists and mafia friends. You, party politicians, most of you, want us out of the way and you're trying them all to succeed, at the cost of overturning our Constitution and our form of government, with an anti-democratic plan designed by majority and fake opposition. You may have forgotten this, but when the center-left and center-right turn the Letta government out of the cylinder, the stated aim was to take urgent measures to stem the economic crisis, adopt an electoral law and go straight to the vote, so that we could have a parliamentary majority that really represented an electoral majority. Almost two years later, we are still talking about electoral law and Renzi assures us, no matter how credible what he says, that he wants to stay until 2018. Meanwhile, last year, in Italy 260 companies have closed a day and unemployment has splashed at unprecedented levels. Last April 1 Renzi defined unemployment at 13% as "convulsive" and promised to bring it under the double figure within the next few months. But it was April 1st: who knows. Just last November Renzi boasted of creating jobs, while the unions invented strikes. Today we are at 13.4% of unemployment and, more importantly, 43.9% of youth unemployment: a catastrophe. In almost a year of Renzi, we have seen only increased taxes, excise duties and taxes, with the prospect of seeing VAT fly even to 25.5% in the coming years. On the other hand, workers' rights have decreased, thanks to the jobs act, with a permanent precariousness and a permanent blackmail of dismissal sanctioned by law. The urgency of the country for us is the income of citizenship, the recovery of monetary sovereignty, the conflict of interest, raising the minimum pensions, the revival of small and medium-sized enterprises and the anti-corruption law (the only - by the way - for which Renzi does not think it appropriate to put the turbo with decrees and confidences: why?). [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The urgent need for you, however, is to keep citizens away from the institutions, to reduce their opportunities for participation in public life and to make democracy a private property of the parties. But by now we citizens are inside and it will be difficult for you to evict us. I allow myself, however, in my humility to give you advice: hold on to the information, keep it submissive because, when you do not succeed anymore and people will really be informed and really know what happens in here, that day I believe your mothers will not vote for you anymore. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u57	Madam President, I would have imagined that the debate on the electoral law was a little more involved and a little more shared by colleagues. But, on the other hand, the methodology used for the incardination of this important law in this House and, then, the peremptory indication of the times within which to reach its approval make this rift, which I do not think is pleasing to any of us. However, as a Senate, a few months after the reform of the Constitution has been examined, we are called to intervene on the other main lever of our democratic architecture, that is, on the electoral law. It is regrettable to repeat itself, but it is difficult to hide the problems that remain on the plant in question and the concerns that persist, despite the repeated recourse to corrective measures that, still, fail to return to the voters a balanced standard and in harmony with the spirit of our constitutional dictation. I remember, first of all to myself, how the stakes at stake, right at this historic moment, are really high. (The Senator Parente converses on the phone aloud.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Stephen. Senator Parente, can we ask you to keep your voice down? You're welcome, Senator. STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Thank you, Madam President. It would really take responsibility and I do not say that to launch the usual defeatist alarm of those who think they should interpret dissent always, however and regardless. It is an approach that does not belong to me, it is not part of my culture and my training. It is, however, if anything a thought - this yes - expressed and shared also by several jurists and constitutionalists, who manifest a common perplexity, about the foundations that are being laid and on which our constitutional structure and system is being re-founded. The overall vision, given by the combined arrangement of constitutional reform and the new electoral law, returns the image of a political system perched and closed and, therefore, contrary to the pluralistic and participatory vocation proper to our Constitutional Charter. That of today, that of these weeks, was to be the occasion when we all embraced the challenge of finally engaging the widespread expectations for a real revival of our political system, to renew and increase the participation of citizens in democratic life, to continue to ensure the presence of different political sensibilities. As a result, it was an opportunity and a challenge to reduce the gap between politics and citizens, to make decision-making more secure, but to simplify the identification of their respective responsibilities. If it is true what I have said, then I cannot help but consider this reform as the umpteenth missed opportunity: a missed opportunity if, as is easily assumed by the pressure on the times of debate, like the constitutional reform combined with it, we will not be able to guarantee the expression of Parliament's centrality with its different political sensibilities, keeping it away from the forces and pressures of an executive nature. The contours of this electoral law stand out on a ridge that, on the one hand, disposes of the marginalization of the second Chamber and, on the other hand, occupies the diminished representative political space, with a system of blocked capilists which, in turn, returns a sort of "democracy of investiture," of a man only at the command and of his faithful. The forecasts unanimously indicate a perspective of only 240 MPs at most elected with preference, with the further anomaly that the small parties will elect only the list heads and, therefore, only those appointed. I believe that this scenario does not meet our needs and I do not say so only today. I said this months ago, in this very Chamber, when we insisted on the opposition to the constitutional reform at the time, because we were "scared" what today takes on the net outlines of a real "perfect storm" because of the nature and democratic hold of our institutions. It's not an exaggeration. In fact, the obvious connection between the changes on the table and the perception that citizens have about the work of this political class cannot be denied. And these choices will have immediate and direct repercussions on the preservation of our social fabric, on the dynamics of our life and our country, on the feeling of citizens towards the idea of democracy and the values related to it. The climate of mistrust, which has long been rising towards politics, would require us - yes - to operate the necessary reform cycle, but with particular sensitivity, responsibility and attention. In our history, in the history of our country, the apologetic choice between representativeness and governability has always resolved in favor of the latter. Yet, by a sort of law of the counterfeit, the precipitate of this choice has always resulted in repeated and repeated changes of government during the same legislature. It has always invested, therefore, with irrepressible stubbornness, in the direction of governability, without ever obtaining a truly stable system. And as if that were not enough, today with the same stubbornness we intend to confirm and pass the definitive introduction of a critical and worrying element: the bond of fidelity to its secretary or party leader. This, of course, opens up to the scenario of a weak Parliament, which is completely incapable of containing the decision-making thrust of the Commission, affirming only the influence of individual party leaders or secretaries on each individual Parliament. There is a risk of introducing a new species - past my gamble - of a mandate bond for the chosen one, but it will have to prefer the party's addresses instead of responding to the needs of the territories and citizens. The choice to keep the capilists blocked as the prerogative of the party secretariats represents, in the eyes of public opinion, the idea of a ruling class that wants to self-esteem; which proves, completely deaf to the popular sentiment, to self-conserve, thus violating every purpose of politics, which is one of the highest and most heartfelt expectations of the country. That is why, even with this rewriting of the electoral law, we will not be able to change towards Italy. I say this once again: I do not think it is possible to postpone the choice of offering a real and strong element of change compared to what has happened over the past years. In fact, the hypothesis about the real will and ability of this Government to build a balanced mechanism of weights and balances between the executive power and the legislative power remains solid and more than ever standing. Precisely the absence of these counterweights is the most critical aspect and repeatedly highlighted by many constitutionalists, as well as by many parliamentarians. The joint action of these two reforms seems to be aimed at reducing Parliament's own guarantee and control functions until they are cancelled. The provision of barrage clauses, the majority prize to the first party and the blocked capilists is likely to make the House of Deputies, elected on a popular basis, irreparably dependent on the choices of the strongest parties at the electoral level. There is a risk that a party may be in control of the government, after having obtained an absolute majority of Members, with only a quarter of the popular suffrage, as noted also at the hearing in the 1st Commission by several constitutionalists. In short, I do not believe that the reforms as well as these proposals are capable of offering an adequate response to the crisis of politics and the mistrust that goes through this country. On the contrary, there is a risk that these elements may accentuate even more the difficulties to regain credibility, to be an element of reconstruction of a historical and political link between representatives and representatives. You see, ladies and gentlemen, the possibility that this could be underestimated at this stage could lead to undoubtedly problematic implications and consequences. That is precisely why I want to continue to hope that the Government and the majority will open up to a confrontation that is more frank and sincere. We cannot continue to remain deaf to the many valuable suggestions and warnings that, for longer, scholars and authoritative connoisseurs of the constitutional order and its functions propose, as well as the parliamentary discussion continues to indicate. The policy cannot choose to use the help of the so-called "technical" only when they are called upon to strengthen an already assumed political direction, or to pass expensive decisions in terms of consensus, and instead to prove indifferent when it is reached by criticism or censorship. In particular, in this draft law there are three elements that I consider indispensable for the maintenance of the institute and the democratic rule of our country. First of all, there is the amount of the majority prize. As has already been said, and not just by me, I would like to remind you that the previous attempt to change the electoral law with the introduction of a majority prize - at the time of just under 15% and that, however, it was only achieved by over 50% - has gone into history with the little honorable name of the scam law. Today we launched ourselves, and by far, beyond those parameters. In fact, it is expected that possible majority prizes will be used which, theoretically speaking, could even exceed the number of votes obtained in the elections themselves, leaving open an important issue from the point of view of constitutional holding on the congruence between the votes obtained and the representation achieved. I would also like to reiterate another aspect: the certainty of the assumption, according to which the party that arrives first certainly wins the ballot, is without proven and real foundation. The ballot can also win the second party, as sometimes, or even often, happens in the elections of the mayors of the municipalities, and this would aggravate that gap. The second element is the barrier clause. The reduction of the threshold from 8 to 3% does not solve the problems raised in this respect. The question lies not in the percentage of this measure, but in its forecast. The barrier threshold is a rule in clear contradiction with the majority prize: if you decide to tackle and overcome the problem of governability with the introduction of the majority prize, what is the logical and political rationale behind the forecast of the barrier threshold? How do you justify it? Does it not appear merely as a measure with a punitive taste towards those who intend to continue to express their own political position? The desire to arrive at bipartitism as soon as possible cannot be placed in the hands of the Commission, but must be reversed through political reasons and electoral and cultural passages. It must not be a law that can in fact give rise to bipartitism, not even with the provision of access to the majority premium at the highest possible rate. The third and last element of my reflection - as I have already said - is the maintenance of the blocked capilists, with the possibility that they may be in more regions. The introduction of preferences does not remove or reduce the democratic problematic nature of this measure: all obstacles to what must be a full and guaranteed right to representation inevitably give back the idea of a ruling class more concerned with self-preservation than to be careful to interpret with fullness and responsibility the task of genuine, effective and necessary renewal. As I said on the occasion of the Senate reform in this same Chamber, I had the opportunity to confront the electoral moment on three occasions: in two of them through the exercise of preference and in the third, which brought me here to the Senate, as a blocked leader, as a result of an electoral law that we do not want to change. I can assure you that the link that holds the relationship and relationship between the chosen and the territory, when there is the exercise of preference, holds the mandate of particular responsibility. I say this to judge not what others do, but the commitment of each of us. In conclusion, on the whole, I cannot fail to note that the directing efforts of the present Commission, in the context of institutional reforms, will hardly succeed in fulfilling the task of well nourishing our democracy and will hardly change towards this country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u58	Senator Ferrara Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u59	Madam President, if you click on the Internet to look for the word Eisenhower, the first indication you find is not Eisenhower as President of the United States of America, but Eisenhower as general; then you find the carrier Eisenhower and the dial of Eisenhower; finally Eisenhower as President of the United States of America. But before we get to the third indication, which is consistent with the argument we're dealing with and, that is, the Eisenhower quadrant, I also want to remind you that it has a specific notation about what you read on the Internet. The Americans, speaking of the Presidents of an important phase such as the one from the 1930s to the 1960s, say that Roosevelt is the example of how the President of the United States can be done all his life; Truman is the example of how anyone can do the President of the United States of America; Eisenhower is the example of how we can do without a President of the United States and Kennedy is, instead, the example of how dangerous it is to have a President. Eisenhower's presidency lasted eight years, but history books say that General Eisenhower left much to the "political" Nixon, his vice president. The history books speak of Eisenhower more for the quadrant than for being the President. But why is the Eisenhower quadrant or even Covey quadrant of great importance? It is the quadrant with which, in the President's cabinet, one tried to give importance to the things that had to be done. And it made a difference and tried to connect the things to do by judging them through the importance and urgency, waiting for things to be indifferently important and urgent. To determine what to do, however, it is important to see what are important and urgent at the same time. In fact, there can be important but not urgent things, as well as things that are not urgent and not important or things that are urgent but not important. For example, a health issue may be very urgent, but not extremely important, and one thing may be important but not urgent. That is - in my opinion - the debate we are discussing is important, but not urgent. It is important to establish by which electoral law the becoming of the market of democracy must be elaborated, but it is not an urgent thing, because on all books of constitutional law it is said first and foremost that electoral laws are established when one knows what is the form of State and Government that that State has. Today we are debating the choice of the electoral system, that is, the law of the market, when we do not know what the market is; when we do not know what kind of state ours will be, since the other branch of Parliament is discussing it - and has not yet defined it. So this is a very important thing, but from consistency we should have a lesson in behavior by saying that this debate should be done at least after we have seen what form of state we are going to give ourselves. Let's say, then, that it's not really a useless argument and it's not part of the fourth point of the Eisenhower quadrant, but it's certainly not the first. It is the second and, therefore, in the second, if we resume the Eisenhower quadrant again, there is a definition for important things that are not urgent and, that is, they are deceptive things. We are now deceiving us and the Italians, who are the market players, who are the market for democracy. The market is perfect when it is fluid, atomic, homogeneous and transparent. Let's take an example for those who will read and are not an expert in economics or for those who are feeling us. A fluid market is a market that has the possibility to present a different offer continuously; atomic in the sense that you have an incredible plurality of choice; transparent in the sense that I can choose independently of one and the other; homogeneous in the sense that the product offered is the same in all parts of the market. Today - for example - telephony is a market that makes phone calls cost much less because there is a plural offer and a choice everywhere. This made the market as perfect and therefore made it at a lower cost. With this definition, who deals with electoral systems - Professor Compagna, I hope to put at least 21 to this test - knows that the market of democracy (i.e. the supply of government and the demand for government) has the best regulation when the market is as perfect as possible. That is why the UN, in one of its first directives, in the 1950s, at a time when a state was facing democracy, recommended the system proportional to multiple preference. This allows, in fact, a choice as much as possible and gives the obligation to those who offer their service to be chosen in as many places as possible and to those who choose to be able to choose as much as possible. That is why, when those who, like me in the 1990s, went on television defending the single system, were against those who, on the other hand, defended the proportional system, telling us that, at the time of the new nations entering the European Community, they had the recommendation to provide for their electoral system for voting for Europeans with the proportional system and not with the single system. This is because - instead - there were nations such as England, France and Germany (Germany in part) voting with the union, while to those who were to elect their new representatives in the European Parliament it was recommended to proceed with a system that was not the one. So what is the problem that the most advanced nations in the world all have a single system, totally, partially or correctly? Germany has it in part, but on the proportional side we know that, within the parties, there is a very strict protocol for the choice of priority in the blocked list (but 50% has colleges). France has the one-name colleges; England has the one-name colleges; America has the one-name colleges. Spain has the Spanish system in multiple colleges, but we know that being, in fact, unique is given by the size of the college. Therefore, in Spain, the college has a multi-pronged meaning only in two districts, which are those of Madrid and Barcelona, where, in fact, there is a proportional system. In the remaining part of the country, being small colleges, in fact there is a single college. Why have these states gone from the choice of proportional to the choice of the unitary? Because they had to balance the merits and defects of both and because the best of the systems, which is that of proportional representation with a preference for multiple votes (which then, with the 1992 referendum, became a single preference), has the disadvantage of preference. What is the disadvantage of preference? The disadvantage is that for which Tuscany and Emilia, at the time when they passed their electoral law for the election of the Regional Councils, they made blocked lists: unable to make the unitary (but without this section of reasoning), they chose the blocked list compared to the proportional vote. With the vote of preference one risks, in fact, that to be elected, not being there the perfection of fluidity, that is, not being there the possibility that in every place of the market the offer arrives, are only those who manage to make themselves known through their ability to communication, that it has a strongly economic significance. For example, in Tuscany and Emilia, the bulk was made up of those who were connected to the world of cooperatives. I do not want to say why they were connected to the world of cooperatives, even if the economic connection has a strong meaning. Mr Mario Mauro will excuse me, but we will have to remember that, with the favourite vote in Lombardy, many were those who were part of the same sector, of a network. It is the network that had been used by De Gasperi and Christian Democracy in contrast to the chambers of work of the Communist Party, the network of loyalty, which in Italy has a great significance in that part of society that is recognized in religious practice. This is the reasoning that was made in France at the beginning of the Gollist period and in England in the second half of the nineteenth century, at the time when it passed from the preferred vote to the uninomial college. It was tried to balance the difficulty of fluidity with the obligatory choice on a candidate. There is no perfect system - this is read in almost every book that deals with the subject - but there is the system that has the most limited flaws. It would suffice to reason on the fact that the most advanced countries all have the unitary to understand that this is the best system, also because - since this is not urgent - it could solve the problem of urgency. The single system is, in fact, the only system that is good both for the direct election of the President of the Council and for the cancelled system. All right, that is, in America and France, where there is the direct election of the President of the Council, and it is fine in England and Germany, where there is the Chancellor. Waiting, and wanting to react to the deception, if we chose the single today, this would be the solution to the problem. We could circumvent the deception by making a choice that, compared to deception, gives us a system and, therefore, a regulation of the market that is good for an offer of both presidential or semi-presidency government, and of parliamentary type. Why don't you want to do this? Because, when you hear so many colleagues of the majority and commentators in the country, it is said that we have reached a point where you cannot put your hand forward, to a reasoning that you cannot stop. And we must make a choice that inevitably cannot be that of returning to the past, that is to say to the union, but we must proceed with this system, which will allow us to know the winner the day after the elections. One inevitably tries to confuse the need to elect a Parliament and the need to elect the Government, which is the emanation of Parliament, but which is not the Government itself. And the confusion is cleverly made by the Government, which links its survival and its reason for being to Parliament's raison d'être, whereas in all democracies this is a distinct element. It is clearly distinguished in presidential or semi-presidential systems. It is obviously not distinguished in the Chancellors, but also in these systems this is, and above all for a reason, that it has not been discussed in the reform of parliamentarism, as it has happened in this House and as it is happening in the Chamber of Deputies, since it has not been discussed to give the Chancellor the power to dissolve, which in the Registrar makes the difference compared to a parliamentary democracy, as is the one that derives from the hypothesis of transformation of the constitutional structure in the examination of the Chambers. Therefore, one wants to give strength to the Government by reaching a majority through the majority prize, but one does not want to give strength to the Government with those powers, which it would have, through a greater constitutional force. I continue my reasoning by saying that this basic error, which lies in a part of a culture that is not to be overcome, is extremely dangerous, because it would come to carry out an all-Italian constitutional reform, which has no precedent and which, for this reason, is extremely dangerous, since it would be entrusted to a democracy like ours, which is not mature and does not have a superior judiciary guarantee. What do I mean by a higher court guarantee? If the systems are presidential and semi-presidential, they have a President elected separately from Parliament; but if the systems are cannierate, and therefore parliamentary democracy, they need a higher guarantee system. I would point out that, in the systems in which the chancellor is expected, the higher guarantee systems exist, and are evident in two very important contexts: in the English one, in which the monarchy exists, and in the German one, in which a monarchy actually existed until a short time ago, being constituted by the system of verification of the occupiers, or rather of the winners of the Second World War. I do not think I am making an insult to the German Parliament or even to the German state structure, if I quote the famous episode of the first Grosse Koalition in 1964, which was decided within the American embassy. The proportional systems exist only in two other countries - and that is why we must be very careful about the possibility that the vote of preference does not have that very dangerous drift, which then makes the single system choose - namely in Belgium and Sweden. Even in these two countries there is a higher guarantee system, which is given by the monarchy. We do not have the monarchy, but we have a very young parliamentary system. The only thing we should have done is to have the courage to have a different reading of constitutional reform - as has been done in the past, with the 2005 reform, to which today's majority, then in opposition, said no - and to work for a direct election of the President of the Council and at the same time for a single system. Otherwise, everything we're doing, according to the Eisenhower quadrant, is just a deception. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u60	Senator Cotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here debating an electoral law, approved by the House of Deputies, which, before the vote, will be updated because of the changes made by another body, in fact constitutionally over-ordered to the Chambers, called the Nazarene Pact. I want to focus my remarks on one aspect of the law that we examine: what concerns the possible expression of the preference vote for candidates as an alternative to the so-called blocked lists, which allow the elector to choose only the list to be voted on, leaving the party secretariats and/or the leaders the power to determine the order of the elected in each college. Well, I believe that even the most reckless citizens understand that, without the expression of the vote of preference, the democratic nature of our system is severely limited to the benefit of the party apparatus. The elected candidates with blocked lists, especially if candidates without elections, so-called primary, are fatally led to respond to their choices to secretariats and party leaders rather than voters. This dependence on the leaders of political forces, rather than on the base, reduces the elective organs to mere prosthesis of external powers and, in the wake of these criticisms, the organ over-ordered to the Chambers already mentioned - I am talking about the Nazarene Pact - after extensive discussion within it, unanimously approved (i.e. with two votes in favour) a finding that is compromised between lists to be voted with preference and blocked lists: the capilists are elected first, while for the other candidates, from the number 2 onwards, preference is expressed. But the electoral colleges provided for by this law would be much smaller than the current ones (there is talk of colleges with a maximum of six elected); so small that only a few lists could be able to elect more than one candidate in the same college. Most political players would only be able to elect leading candidates. I am told that at least some stronger lists could also elect two or three candidates in the same college and, therefore, have also elected with preference. Therefore, being able to express preferences at least for non-capilist candidates should be less worse than not expressing any preference. It's not like that. In fact, it must be considered that, with this system, the capilists do not need votes of preference and therefore so many potential voters close to their ideas and proposals, or linked to them by relationships more or less... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u62	I ask the senators to lower their voices to allow Senator Cotti to carry out his intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u63	Cotti (M5S). I'll start the sentence again, ma'am. In fact, it should be considered that, with this system, the capilists do not need votes of preference and, therefore, so many potential voters close to their ideas and proposals, or linked to them by more or less clientele relationships, would have their vote of preference free for other candidates politically homogeneous to the head coach himself. This could perhaps allow the numbers 4 or 5 of each list to bypass any candidates who, with the primary ones, managed to win the second or third position, but who are not quite in line with the secretariats of the parties, even if the candidates were chosen with primary elections. If we add the fact that there is the possibility of expressing two votes of preference, in order to maintain gender balance, we arrive at the result that the leaders of each political subject and their respective capilist, free from the assault of preference, could orient their voters to vote for two other candidates to their faithful, obtaining the extraordinary result of determining the order of the elected in each college up to the third potential elected. It's not over. In the law already approved by the Nazarene Pact, it is expected that a single leader can apply in several colleges (up to ten), allowing him, in case of election in several colleges, to opt for those in which the first of the unelected is not of the same current, freeing places in colleges where the first of the unelected is instead ready for obedience to the party leaders. It is not, therefore, correct to say that, with only the capilists blocked and the preferences from the second onwards, at least a part of the elected would be chosen by the voters: this would happen only if a single list were to win four or five seats in the same college. In this case, perhaps, the last of the elected would be chosen without the very strong influence of the leaders of the parties and the leaders. But we know that, in colleges that elect at most six Members, it would be almost impossible for any list to win more than three or four seats. In the final analysis, while without preference at least the lists that make primary series could see elected candidates placed in the second or third place not direct expression of the party leaders, and therefore more oriented to respond to the citizens; with the leader blocked, instead, and with the consequent possibility to orient his votes on other candidates of his own current, probably not even the second and third elected of the list in the same college would be chosen really freely by the citizens, even in the case of lists that choose candidates with primary serious elections. Dear Nazarene skaters, you are succeeding in creating a political masterpiece for your interests, and not for those of the citizens. You are succeeding in passing the idea of the only leader blocked as a compromise between preferences or non-preferences, while at best the effect is the same: to have elected faithful to the top and not to the citizens. The only way to have elected citizens respond is by expressing preferences for all candidates, including the leader. Those who are not proficient in electoral systems may believe in the solution of preferences from the second on the list onwards as a compromise. I don't fall for it. The citizens of the Five Star Movement don't fall for it. Go on, keep making fun of us, with your fake compromises that perpetuate the status quo of the partycracy, such as the Party Finance Act, a fake compromise that perpetuates money to your business committees. Do you really think that people do not realize that these fake compromises serve only to assert a minority political class made majority with legislative artifacts? No more teasing! I want to repeat this: the blocked leaders, together with the small colleges and the double preference, determine 100% of the elected faithful to your new body superordained to Parliament, yes, what I have already mentioned twice, the one from which two people outside Parliament - one because we threw it out and the other because it never entered us - govern the country thanks to the abdication of so many of you who, the role of legislators who compare with the citizens, prefer that of letterheads. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u64	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u65	18 October 2010: "We want to cut the number and allowances of parliamentarians in half immediately and choose them with the votes, not make them decide in Rome with bows to the powerful of turn". 3 April 2011: "We want an electoral law to choose directly the elected, but also the imposition of the replacement through a roof of three parliamentary mandates, without exception". 26 April 2012: "The electoral law must allow citizens to choose the President of the Council and the parliamentarians freely, as happens in the municipalities. The parties must allow people to choose people so that a citizen can face their representatives. Then, if he does well, he confirms it, if it hurts, he sends him home and maybe politicians will feel the drunkenness of returning to work, which is not a mystical experience, all Italians do it and even politicians who lose elections can do it. Colleagues, I could continue with the quotations, but the hour is late and I do not tediate you any further. To speak these words, absolutely acceptable and of common sense, was not one of our wise and enlightened constituent Fathers that we regret so much, but of which we forgot the example, but our Matteo thought and announcement, that which "A tweet will reform us," that "And that there is", but this obviously before becoming President of the Council; before losing the right line and proposing, in perfect "italian smemoretic political style", the exact opposite. With the combined arrangement of Italicum and Senate reform wanted by this Government, and which are a super Porcellum squared, in fact, the parliamentarians are not halved: only the Senate is reduced, which loses the historical solemnity and the potential, very high, noble legislative function to transform itself into a useless wheelchair, sure. The 630 Members will continue to take equal allowances; the 100 senators will turn empty but reimbursed; the parties will appoint the Members, because the leaders of the same parties are chosen, which is why they will not need the vote, since they will not be subject to preference. She obviously lost every trace of the three warrants. If you vote today with this bill (at least to what seems to understand, since as usual the hands ready to write, delete, modify every staff according to the suggestions of turn are many and between the Italicum exited from the Chamber and the Italicum 2.0 of which rumors in the newspapers and on TV it is hard to stay behind), it can be assumed that the 100 leaders of the PD, of the 5 Star Movement, of Forza Italia, plus those of the League in the Regions of the North and of the other parties that will exceed the barrier threshold would be elected automatically. We speak of more than 300 seats insured in the Chamber, plus 100 mayors and regional councillors appointed and not voted, distinguished in capital companies (Rimborsopoli, Expo, MOSE, Mafia Capitale), strictly shielded from immunity, on vacation prize in Rome at the after-work annex of the reformed Senate. This draft electoral law, in short, makes many parliamentarians feel serene, limiting the stress from the electoral campaign to a heroic and heroic minority chosen by an even more select minority of voters still not contaminated by the rampant and epidemic virus of abstentionism. In the future Parliament, after all, there will be about two thirds of nominations and only a third of parliamentarians elected by a few citizens, with good peace of democracy, representativeness and the fine words of Renzi, but that of the pre-Palazzo Chigi version. As proof of the fact that at worst there is never an end, the worst electoral law possible is replaced by the apotheosis of the patron saint. However, we must recognize one thing: this majority is taking full responsibility for it (if it sings, if it plays it and votes it), which is a good step forward after years of slights in which everyone said that the responsibility was of the other, when instead incompetence and evil have concerned everyone, no one excluded except those who were not there. Now President Renzi takes responsibility for these reforms, we acknowledge that. Too bad that so many nonsenses are not worth any note of merit, but they only arouse bitterness and shame. The Senate, given voluntary planned suicide, is not even considered in this bill. We sail every day on sight; alarms and bad news clutter the news and change the agenda, yet it is assumed that the next elections will already read constitutional reform, when the government is the first to know that there are still three readings missing, with the intervals provided by the Constitution, which is why the next elections should be voted with two different laws for the House and Senate. It will be for this reason that Minister Boschi announced the safeguard clause that Italicum will not enter into force immediately, but only from 2016, good excuse to chain Italy to another year and a half of a single party, if anyone still had doubts about it. The fair of the absurd, yet another. With these absurd premises, in a context so insane where procedure, form and merit compete to offer the worst, even the opposition cannot do much. One would like to respond constructively and usefully, but it is really difficult to do so as unheard. You were ironic when our colleagues in the House got up on the rooftops, but it seems more dignified to find themselves entertained on a train that, without having clear the goal, sometimes runs in a reckless way, when it suits you (counter-reform of the Senate and law of stability docent), other times is arena on dead tracks (modification of regulations, anti-corruption, conflict of interest, the list would be long). It was intended to give these laws a classic emphasis, Italicum, perhaps because Latin is always reassuring and recalls to all of us the times gone by of youth on school benches, recalls the idea of the Unity of Italy and echoes the pride of being Italian; nomen omen, a name a destiny said in fact the Romans. Too bad these laws do anything but make someone feel proud. In all sincerity I felt more Italian citizen to follow the discussion on jobs act, despite the name (and I speak of discussion because you did not let us vote even that), than with this Italicum. Italicum, a name that recalls more that of a train than that of an electoral law. Verify how many citizens give Italicum a positive value: many will associate it with Italo, the train of the NTV company, today in severe economic difficulties, others at Italicus, the train of the massacre of 1974. This reform does not belong to the citizens. The citizens are rather altered to think that the Senate of the Republic is stuck talking about thresholds, barriers, coalitions, lists, lists, colleges and majority prizes, when out of here ISTAT tells us that unemployment has reached the highest value since 1977 (because before we did not have the data), that is 13.4 percent, with the threshold of 44 percent between fifteen and twenty-four years. The international chronicle reminds us of the constant danger of terrorism, while the local chronicles remind us that the tentacular pollution of the parties and the public administration is so uneconomic to ballast the country with 8,000 municipalities: carriages that count the beauty of 19,000 directors and 300,000 employees, which cost us 15 billion a year. All this while the world's greatest historical-artistic heritage falls apart, is unbreakable at Christmas due to insufficient staff or is abandoned to itself because the funds that could have been there have gone to fill more. Perhaps we should look back a moment, in our history, to take a path that is more correct than that undertaken. The Romans, in fact, always said "Ducunt volentem fairy," nolentem trahunt" or "Fate" guides those who want to let themselves be guided and drags those who do not want to. With this law, the fate to which the Italian Parliament is drawn is to adopt without debate. Instead, the destiny of the Italian people will, as always, be to stand and watch, preferably on another side. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u66	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u69	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out a very serious case, which has forced certain citizens of Crotone, precisely in these minutes, to operate a garrison to protect a formidable good that is the good landscape, and the good of the supreme value that we Italians should have, according to the words of our President-in-Office of the Council, which is culture. In Capo Colonna, exactly in the archaeological park, for a choice that involves the same Ministry for Cultural Heritage, with 2.5 million euros spent, is making a mess in one of the most important and most to protect archaeological areas, if you are aware of what culture is and what identity is. Exactly a concrete pavement is being built to accommodate a parking space in an area where an important archaeological finding took place: in all probability there were common areas of the Roman city and therefore of the hole. In order to prevent this finding from preventing the works, it is immediately covering everything to speed up the construction of this parking lot as soon as possible. In the second line - because the craps are never done alone - there is a canopy that should guarantee the usability of two mosaics. In order to realize this roof, however, we are in practice building a monumental work that will give so many profits to those who have to realize the work, but it will irreversibly damage other artifacts and other mosaics that should be preserved, if there were actually awareness of what archaeology is and of what culture is. In the meantime, I would like to stress the intervention of two associations, Seven Suns and Gettini of Vitalba, without which this work of civil and cultural resistance would never have been possible, because they, citizens with helmets, signal all these inconsistencies and all these obvious absurdities, which take place simply because 2.5 million European funding must be spent. We prefer that the money that is European - but we Italians are European too - be spent on intelligent things and effective works and should not be spent simply because otherwise it is lost. Culture is intelligence and those who justify these operations show that they have so much, so much to study. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u72	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, the news is still fresh of the one-year and three-month sentence, and at the same time of a compensation of 150 000 euros, imposed on Fabio Rainieri, a former Member of the Northern League who is now sitting in the new Regional Council in Emilia Romagna, also for the Carroccio. As is widely known, Rainieri was found guilty of defamation, with the aggression of racial discrimination, for having published on his Facebook profile a photomontage of the then Minister for Integration Cécile Kyenge, retouched - let's remember - with the face of a monkey. To underline the fact that Rainieri has limited himself to giving shape to what he had already said, in the same terms, Senator Calderoli in July 2013 seems even superfluous, if it is not that for both there is the aggression that are representatives of the institutions and, in particular, Senator Calderoli, Vice President of this Assembly. I do not want to comment on the judgment or the omissions of yesterday; we are not here to renew the invitation to resign for Calderoli, even if we are saddened that this House, at the time, did not have the necessary firmness, the same firmness - let us remember - that this House did not even have towards Senator Gasparri for that famous tweet. It seems, therefore, that in this House there is a sort of insensitivity towards offensive words towards people. Alan Fabbri, leader of the Carroccio in the Regional Council of Emilia Romagna, commented on the sentence claiming that the political battle of the League must be done on the contents. We add that, in addition to the contents, which are fundamental, words are also important, that the form participates in the substance and that, in politics, dose words and know how to use them demonstrates responsibility. Therefore, of the two: or the former Member of Parliament, today Regional Councillor, Rainier has confused irony with the mockery and the offense or, as sometimes happens, indeed lately often happens (and this is a reminder to both Chambers of this Parliament), the words at liberty conceal the lack of content and, sooner or later, this mask will fall and we will all be called to account for our responsibilities. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u75	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, let us start with a simple concept: the common good must be a source of obvious use by citizens. Generally speaking, there is talk of resources without restrictions on access. The beaches, the Italian coasts and the seas are the common good. If we want to go to the seashore, we must be free to do so without feeling out of place. That's our right. Today in many parts of Italy this is not the case. Beach resorts often adopt behaviors much more similar to those who own private property for the exclusive use of some privileged, rather than to the management of a common good at the service of the whole community. To overturn the rules seems to be a national feature of ours. I would remind everyone that Italy is first in Europe in the ranking of countries that have undergone infringement procedures by the European Union: we have collected 89 of them. Yet political forces do not lose the opportunity to develop some new tricks to circumvent the Community directives deemed uncomfortable, exposing all citizens to the payment of additional fines very salty. We read in these days that the senator of the Granaiola Democratic Party, from Viareggio, has presented a bill able to circumvent the Bolkestein directive, to the advantage of a category, a lobby, that of the bathing dealers. Maybe living near the sea heightens the sensitivity in favour of specific categories, up to the risk of collecting yet another European infringement. Having a concession beach means having it as in a kind of rent and not for eternity. That, in fact, is other stuff, it's called private property and the beaches don't have to be private. The bill presented by the senator of the Democratic Party, called the unique text Del Dotto - by the way, Alessandro Del Dotto is the neighbor of the territorial house of the senator, as well as mayor of the Municipality of Camaiore, in the Province of Lucca - aims to subtract all the matter of the state-owned bathing concessions to the discipline of the so-called directive services, with an escamotage that is as bizarre and hilarious as ever: it would be enough to change the legal nature of the relationships inherent to the marine State property, therefore, transform the "concessions" into "authorizations" by the coastal municipalities and the game is done. As if it were not enough, in addition to this gross attempt, carried out by a transversal axis of right and left, today we also put the same Agency of State property, very critical once towards attempts to privatise the beaches. Today, with a reversal of march, it would even like to transfer to the dealers all those portions of maritime property on which artifacts have been built by the date of 30 September 2014 (Article 11, paragraph 6, of the bill to the study of the Agency). Will it not be that the new director of the Democratic Party's State Property Agency, Roberto Reggi, Renziano of the first hour, has been instructed by Minister Padoan to make cash through the sale of state property and a fundamental part of the Italian landscape heritage constituted by our coast? The beach is a common good, it belongs to all citizens and not only to those who built on it. The 5 Star Movement strongly opposes and denounces this dual attack on the common goods of citizens and calls for the Government to take a clear position so that Italians know who we are dealing with. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u76	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-374.ana.u77	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 14 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.22 p.m.
