ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 9 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1993, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report, a preliminary question was rejected and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u9	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we have listened carefully to the speeches made by colleagues on the draft law No. 1993, which converted Decree-Law No. 65 of 21 May 2015 on urgent provisions on pensions, social shock absorbers and TFR guarantees. These interventions focused mainly on Article 1 and the equalization system adopted by the Government. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u10	Excuse me, Senator D'Adda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u11	Colleagues, I think it is impossible to intervene with this buzz, so I would ask the senators who are not interested in moving away and the others to speak underneath. Please, Senator D'Adda, continue. D'ADDA, rapporteur. Let's say immediately that the provisions contained in article 24, paragraph 25, of decree-law n. 201 of 2011 were arranged at a particularly difficult time of the world economy - this is certain - but it was added to the mistakes of those who had previously ruled - I remind a part of the colleagues of this House - and the structural problems of this country. It was not the reform of pensions, which is something else and on which we mean and must intervene, but an intervention to cover the public debt then and to avoid default. The Constitutional Court did not reject a modulation of the intervention on the indexing, already carried out before that date, and considered entirely adequate: it considered unconstitutional that specific rule for not having complied with the necessary balance between the financial requirements and the rights that were going to strike; for not having acted according to reasonableness and proportionality providing for criteria of progressiveness; for having penalized pensions of medium to low amount; for having motivated the block with a generic reference to financial needs not illustrated in detail. We could continue, but these are things that we repeated several times already yesterday. The current decree-law is called upon to intervene, and must take into account both the judgment and the context in which we are operating. It restores a modulation of the bands above three times the minimum and thus recovers a form of progressiveness. At least for a quota, automatic revaluation is also recognised for the following years; it does not result in an indefinite suspension of the equalization mechanism, which may be re-discussed; it refers with a precise analysis to the economic situation, determining in order to direct the choices made by the Government; it respects the objectives of public finance, also using the margin of improvement highlighted in the estimates of the DEF. I would like to remind you that yesterday's figures gave inflation up again in June to +0.2%. I would keep us above all, however, to look at the numbers with you as they really are. I am referring to those of the parliamentary budgetary office. We have an audience, calculated on 2013, of about 14 million pensioners. More than 10 million are covered by the revaluation, since they are recipients of pensions not exceeding or equal to 3 times the minimum. Pensioners from five to six times the minimum, which this decree, although insufficient, even better, goes to heal at least in part, amount to almost 3.5 million. The pension allowances of six times the minimum are about 700,000 and 200 of them are more than fifty times the minimum, with cheques of almost 25,000 euros net. Now, I ask you: who really intervened yesterday, asking for the full application of the equation, do you think you can tell pensioners, especially women, who take about once and a half the minimum? If they think they can say so, I wish them well. Or do we not think that perhaps we have begun to take a step in the right direction? Abrogating tout court the rule of 2011, fully implementing the equation, we would find ourselves in the reopening of the excessive deficit procedure, in the impossibility to take advantage of the so-called flexibility clause and with the activation of the so-called safeguard clauses that provide for the increase of VAT: a situation in which to pay would be first the pensioners, but not only. This is indeed a substantial damage and violation of citizens' rights. Another aspect that has been addressed is that of intergenerational solidarity, which certainly exists and cannot be implied. The other aspect, that of intragenerational solidarity, has not emerged, because the decree-law recovers resources that aim to ensure more revaluation and greater sustainability within the social security system itself. So the billions we recover go to the pension system. I have already spoken in the report of the interventions on social shock absorbers, which are healing previous or existing situations at a time when the implementing decrees of the jobs act are being examined by the competent Commissions, the refinancing of solidarity contracts, the rationalisation and simplification of procedures for companies and workers. It is certainly not a question of massive intervention, but, we would say, almost a chisel, but in the same it is possible to see the reform direction that must characterize the next steps. I therefore believe that dismissing the text at the appropriate time for immediate action is an act of good policy, which we must not delay until tomorrow, and we can do so today. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Luigi Marino]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u12	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u13	Madam President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u14	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u17	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I believe that the debate has allowed us to examine the measure properly, even in a negative way. Therefore, pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask you not to go into the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u18	A representative per Group may speak on the proposal not to proceed to the examination of the articles. Since no one wants to speak, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u21	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u22	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.44 a.m. and resumed at 10.04 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u23	Let's get back to work. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal not to proceed to the debate on the Rules of Procedure. Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. I put to the vote the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles, presented by Senator Candiani. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u24	I am against all the amendments to Article 1 of the Decree-Law and to agendas G1,100. G1.101, G1.102, G1.103, G1.106, G1.107, G1.117 and G1.1119. The opinion was in favour of the adoption of agendas G1.104, G1.105, G1.113, G1.114 and G1.116. On the G1.108 agenda, the opinion is in favour, provided that the following rewording is accepted: The opinion was also in favour of the G1.109 agenda, where the system was reworded as follows: "to consider the possibility of working towards further initiatives in favour of so-called exodus workers." I am also in favour of the G1.110 agenda, where the system is reworded as follows: "to deepen the implementation effects of the measure, considering whether further legislative initiatives should be taken." The opinion is also in favour of the agenda G1.111, with the following rewording of the device:
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u25	Excuse me, Senator, but perhaps it is preferable to propose the rewording in the imminence of the vote on individual agendas, so that the presenters can better assess.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u26	D'ADDA, rapporteur. All right, ma'am. The opinion is also in favour of the agendas G1.112, G1.113, G1.115, G1.118, G1.120, G1.121, G1.122 and G1.123, where the proposal for a rewording which I will indicate later is accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u27	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u30	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, we are calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means. We also call for the vote, in accordance with Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure, on the amendments on which the 5th Commission has voted against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u31	Senator Santangelo, with regard to the amendments on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, we will have to check separately the support for the request for a vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We therefore move on to Amendment 1.1, which is identical to Amendments 1.2 and 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Munerato and other senators, identical to amendments 1.2, tabled by Senator Divina, and 1.3, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B) Let us move on to Amendment 1.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 1.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 1.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 1.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u34	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I rise to explain why the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà Group XVII Legislatura is voting against these amendments, having instead voted in favour of the deletion of the article. The deletion of the article would involve what should happen and which is normally the case, i.e. the application of the Constitutional Court's judgment. With this decree we have discovered that the decisions of the Constitutional Court become a mere suggestion, in fact the Government in this case accepted it in a totally partial way. The amendments that we are voting on now, on the other hand, certainly propose an improvement compared to what the Government has included in the decree-law, but they apply a criterion that the Court considered acceptable but in a different context. I am talking about the possibility of reducing the adjustment of pensions to the cost of living by modulated or not recognizing them for certain categories, for example for higher pensions. This was considered legitimate by the Constitutional Court not in general but in a particular case because it was a one-year suspension and not forever, as also the amendment proposes and, more importantly, the original text, and only because it was an intervention aimed at affecting the so-called staircase or staircase. In other words, the Constitutional Court said that it could be done, but only for a year and only because the resources derived from this failure to adapt are used within the pension system. The proposed formula - I understand who tabled the amendment, and also who voted for it in certain respects - is still an improvement compared to what the Government has proposed, but it is against the constitutional principle that says that, in particular, pensions must be adapted and that, generally speaking, the decisions of the Constitutional Court apply. A very serious precedent is being created in this case. It turns out that the Constitutional Court can speak and then the Government disposes: possibly does or does not do.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u35	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 1.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Munerato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 1.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 1.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u38	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I am speaking for an explanation of vote in favour and to explain the nature of the amendments we have proposed for an improvement in the road adopted by the Government. The amendments are obliged to bring to the attention of the Senate the fact that the Government and this measure intervene on an issue that would have been much better left to the Constitutional Court. In the context of the Constitution, which of the three articles that are involved in this debate is more prominent? In view of the interventions made by the Budgetary Committee, which has declared essentially all the amendments improving the choice of the Government which cannot be voted on under Article 81, this question is particularly acute. It is precisely on this issue that the Constitutional Court intervenes to establish a hierarchy on the values and principles contained in our Constitutional Charter, recalling as priority the values of protection of retired workers, their rights, the pact concluded between companies and workers with the State and the public welfare system, rather than Article 81, which should have imposed on the Government itself the choice to find other areas of intervention to ensure the objectives set by the Constitution in terms of public finance. And it is the subject affected by the Government with this provision for the need to intervene in terms of public finance that the Court censored and that it would have been better that the Government had taken into consideration, which it does not do. That is why we will be constantly calling for the vote on the amendments on which the Budget Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u39	Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,201, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,202 tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u42	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, this amendment by Senators Serafini, Piccinelli and Bertacco returns to the basic question, namely what we risk firing in the Senate Chamber without proper attention. That is why I want to declare my vote in favour of amendment 1.14, which concerns the very establishment of the decree-law. As Senator Malan said earlier, this decree-law of the Commission actually transforms the nature of a Constitutional Court ruling that urges the Government to repay pensioners affected by the blockade decided at the time, which is also the subject of a painful decision of Parliament; it is an objection that many could make. On the contrary, I personally recall having opposed the government of the time so that at least one group of minimum pensions (double or triple) would have been protected, because otherwise it would have been even more drastic. The judgment of the Constitutional Court has prescriptive effect. We are aware of the economic importance of the intervention, so much so that the amendment in question indicates a whole range of cover. However, it is thus intended to transform by decree-law a judgment of the Constitutional Court from prescriptive fact to a kind of general council. Moreover, the Constitutional Court has been called to order publicly; we recall the debate over the past weeks concerning the adoption by the Council of a decision of this nature. It seems that the President of the Council Renzi has been outraged. This is what you read in the newspapers, but you never know what is true and whether the press's indiscretions respond to truth. Now the newspapers have passed, also for Renzi, to the "care interceptions," which many have suffered in the past, even illegally. We read that the Flavia Tavern gave opinions and opinions on this and that other, interpretations of the authentic thinking of the then President of the Republic and more. Everyone read this. Not having the intercepts available, I make a public appeal: if someone has the intercepts of what Renzi said about the Constitutional Court in those days, publish them, so we will make a more complete opinion. We read rumors that Renzi even wanted to send a trusted economist to the Constitutional Court. I remember, in fact, that judges of the Constitutional Court must be appointed, since there were two, now three, poor, indeed expired - some have expired, others even poor - that we must renew. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] Looks like Renzi wants to send a trusted economist to pull the ears of the Constitutional Court. Probably, the recall has produced some effects. I recall the subsequent judgment of the Constitutional Court, in the matter of blocking public administration contracts, which, all in all, is somewhat similar to the intervention on pensions (that then there are emergency situations and difficulties we all know). Recently, the Constitutional Court issued a judgment other than that on pensions. On pensions he said that it was necessary to pay and the decree-law that we are discussing serves not to pay or to pay in any part. On the other hand, on the negotiation of public administration, the Constitutional Court has said that contracts must be made, but that the blockage of a few years is valid and, therefore, it is not necessary to renew contracts retroactively, but from now on. We hope, however, that these contracts will be renewed. On the contrary, I would like to make a public appeal here that, in addition to enacting the law on public administration, which is somewhat botched, which will return to the Senate after the changes that are taking place in the Chamber of Deputies, contracts should also be made. I conclude by saying that this amendment, like others, raises a problem of justice and fairness. There is the argument that the rich, in the end, can make a sacrifice. I am certainly not here to plead the cause of the so-called particularly high gold pensions, but it should be noted that the adjustments are absolutely laughable also for net pensions of €1,000-1,200. These are certainly not figures from Nababbo, when, for example, a family lives with that only pension because the other spouse has no pension or income from work or if there are children who cannot find work and, therefore, are dependent on the retired parent. This amendment serves to say that this decree-law is not good and that it amends, in our view unacceptable, a judgment of the Constitutional Court. Understanding the cost of a comprehensive and respectful repairing of the sentence, with the amendment signed by my colleagues Serafini, Piccinelli and Bertacco, we also mention cover. That is why, apart from the respectable opinions of the Budget Committee, we insist that we vote in favour of this amendment, which I particularly point to in this House as a choice of fairness towards all pensioners. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u45	BONFRISCO (CRI). Madam President, I rise to declare the support of the Conservative Group, Italian Reformists, to Amendment No 1.14 of which Senator Serafini is the first signatory. The amendment goes exactly in the direction indicated by the Constitutional Court, which totally dismissed that measure, whose inequality was already evident in its very nature. The Court has in fact dealt with the issue, although in its complexity, by restricting itself to looking at the aspect of rights, as is the task of the Court itself. The political aggression made to the Court after this judgment has produced what my colleague Gasparri has just mentioned. This judgment may be the last, at least at this time, because the Constitutional Court often pronounces itself according to political epochs. At this time, the Court decided to apply a criterion: after this first judgment, so much stigmatized by the political majority that supports the Renzi Government, the Court, in subsequent judgments, has in fact made a pardon on injustices. 10.30 a.m. (Following BONFRISCO). Those of us who have always heard a blow against the condones of a building or fiscal nature have, on the contrary, heard them silenced, basically and substantially, in the face of a pardon on the economic injustice produced by an act of the Government, although voted by Parliament, but which the Court has instead considered to insinuate for its profile of unconstitutionality and that therefore clearly cannot determine the effects on the citizens, because, in homage to a political majority, the Court has expressed itself without prejudice to what the measure and the majority supporting this Government had supported. I come to the point and to the merit of this text, which is particularly important and interesting, because it does what a serious government should have done. A serious government would have proposed, in response to the judgment of the Court, a measure that would return due to those entitled, perhaps with a multi-annual recovery plan, certainly aimed at limiting the effects on the state budget, which are very important and which, only for 2015, are equal to 17.6 billion euros. On the other hand, we note that, in the government's approach, once again the category of pensioners is called upon to carry out, after a life of sacrifice and work, to build a pension that can meet their needs and life expectations, new heavy sacrifices, essentially with a tax. We have put a tax on pensioners, which is the failure to pay their dues. All this because it is not returned to pensioners over the next five years has a gigantic and very important value, which we remove from the pockets of pensioners to place it somewhere; to place it within a budget that towards capital expenditure, i.e. investment expenditure, invests and allocates little and nothing and that, instead, absorbs all these resources for a current expenditure out of control. It is only yesterday that Bankitalia's data on the continuous increase in public spending. So the question is: why do we have to take away from pensioners what is owed to them, even under a judgment of the Court, in order to forage a system of public expenditure that continues to increase inexorably? Evidently, in the failure to apply that spending review that everyone cites and that nobody applies, we continue to feed a vicious, vicious process, which will soon lead us to make dramatic accounts. Because when we can no longer remove anything from the pockets of pensioners, workers, entrepreneurs, professionals, who will give the money to the Italian State to continue to maintain such a high current spending commitment? Ask yourself this question and you will see the answer by reading the acts and watching the footage of what has happened in Greece these weeks. If we do not intervene, as this amendment suggests, in favour of a qualitative revision of public expenditure and continue to waste time, after having pretended to give 80 euros to employees and today asking pensioners to cover also those maneuvers to continue to support public spending, we will soon end up having to take note of the total failure of the economic policy of this Government, which even the Constitutional Court, goodness its, despite all its best will, has had to cash out. However, the attack on the Court is very dangerous, because it highlights and makes it clear that there is a Court under the slap of a political majority, which is in fact determining its deliberations. The pardon against the employees, who must be recognized, with their national employment contract, the right to see their position updated, even economic, is the most striking demonstration that today we are experiencing a particularly difficult and dangerous period, from the point of view of the maintenance of the institutions, and the democratic institutions in particular, when we talk about the rights of the citizens. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u48	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the issue that arises is essentially how we must respond to what has been stated not only in this judgment, but also in the direction taken by the Constitutional Court in the field of public finance and, above all, in blocking the already regulated procedures and paths that recall responsibilities and duties on the part of the State, its bodies and its administrations. It seems to me that the Constitutional Court has been very consistent. It is consistent when it intervenes on the block of salaries, to say that it must be removed, but it does not recall any obligation, because the pact has not closed: that measure and that procedural path were suspended before closing the pact between the worker citizen, the enterprise and the State. In the same way, he intervened on the so-called Robin tax, which was also the subject of a Constitutional Court ruling. It was necessary to remedy, even in this case, by introducing valid modalities from then on, which were therefore without prejudice to the previous financial conditions. The difference is that with retired workers the pact was closed long before state intervention on public finance and pensions. And when a right is already acquired, no matter how much it may be suspended, limited in time, exclusively for serious situations and after it has occurred that it is not possible to respond to financial needs in any other way, it cannot be cancelled and cancelled over time, almost permanently, breaking the relationship of trust that exists between the State, its administrations and the retired worker. I would like to remind all of us that ours is a democratic Republic based on work and when the Constitution speaks of work, it refers to workers, that is to say those who produce the income and wealth of the country, that is to say to those who express themselves through the right-duty of participation with the instrument of work and who support development and promote the dignity of the national community. Therefore, on this ground it is the Government that still does not understand that there is a substantial difference between the injury that is done to the individual citizen, who expects a right and the injury that is done instead to the workers, who are the foundation of this national community, the Republican State and the Democratic Republic. This is the argument put forward by the Constitutional Court. That is why we will also vote in favour of this amendment, appreciating the difference between an initiative that saves public finances and protects rights, such as identifying cover that is geared towards solving financial problems, but that does not undermine the rights and the foundation of the rights on which our Republican Constitution is based. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u50	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u51	FALANGA (CRI). Mr President, I would just like to say that I have heard the President in this House. Do you disagree with the group, Senator? FALANGA (CRI). Let me at least explain the reasons for the dissent, Mr President. Let me talk. I said I heard in this House talk about the Constitutional Court. I would like to remind someone that one last member of the Parliamentary Appointing Court has not yet been appointed because no agreement has been reached. So, on the fact that the Court has a component of political derivation, it seems to me that Pandora's box is not discovered. In any case, be careful: discussions on the judgments of the Court must be done with scientific in-depth analysis. We cannot take only one verse of the judgment and criticize it because it saved what was probably not technically salvageable (for example, we speak of the precedent); we must consider that the Court must always combine and harmonize constitutional principles together. So those who speak and comment on the judgments of the Court, now drawing them to the advantage of one thesis now to the advantage of another, in my opinion, before making such interventions, should deepen the constitutional law and understand what the Court's work is and on what basis it issues its own judgments. Having said that, it seems to me that the measure, in respect of the judgment cited by many, goes in the direction indicated by the Constitutional Court. For this reason, I can only declare my vote against this amendment in particular, which intervenes on public finance with a completely inadequate, written and scientifically inappropriate motivation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u54	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, while respecting the decisions that other Senators of my Group will take, I agree with this amendment, which has the merit of proposing some fundamental issues. First of all, it denounces the fact that the monuments that we are building every day to a sort of culture of retroactivity end up losing credibility to the whole system. It is the State that loses credibility, because a State that breaks the pact that binds it in freedom to its citizens ends up not being credible anymore. The Constitutional Court also loses credibility because, subject to a vexation that transforms the nature of the judgment issued, it is no longer credible to the citizens and makes itself no longer credible as an institution; and this is a further very serious damage that we face to our institutional culture. On the other hand, amendment 1.14 has a further merit: it says exactly what the government should have done, because obviously without attacking the way of making public spending and above all continuing to produce, as the government is doing, current expenditure, ends up making the nature of a reformative action miserable. For all these reasons, I express our agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u55	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Serafini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment No 1.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u58	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, since this and previous governments have preferred over the years to draw on the pockets of citizens rather than to protect the rights enshrined in the Constitution and to make laws against corruption or to rationalise public expenditure, the 5 Star Movement in this amendment proposes an alternative reimbursement mechanism more attentive to the purchasing power of cheques of low amount and capable of countering the demands of social justice with those of budget. The amendment we are proposing provides for the immediate 100% refund due for indexing 2012-2013 to beneficiaries of treatments of three and four times the minimum treatment, i.e. the lowest pensions. I remind all of us that these pensions, in addition to being a right enshrined in the Constitution with respect to which there have been two judgments, go to protect those pensioners who not only have the right to receive indexation (which is not a bonus but a right), but act as a social shock absorber; that shock absorber that in Italy has never been created, and that protects their children and their grandchildren who are currently out of work, forced to go abroad or to stay home. This government does not think of real reforms that allow people to work and have, as Senator Uras pointed out, an income. On the other hand, we think about it when we ask for the establishment of citizenship income and want what is enshrined in the Constitution: income and work. We also propose a 100% refund for pensions ranging from five to eight times the minimum pension, in this case paid. This would allow the government to cope with the increased burden and spending over the years. We propose it up to eight times the minimum because there has been a previous judgment, n. 316 of 2010, according to which for a short period you can suspend the treatment, which would then resume from 2016 onwards. We are calling for this amendment to be assessed by the House and we have therefore supported the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u59	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1,17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,17, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1,18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u62	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in order to prevent this measure from passing quickly and superficially, I would like to reiterate that there are some amendments that the Government could consider. For example, Amendment 1,18, tabled by my fellow Members, Mr Serafini, Mr Piccinelli and Mr Bertacco, proposes a remodulation of the refunds through a change of parameters: 95% instead of 40%, 80% instead of 20% and 60% instead of 10%, with reference to points (a), (b) and (c) of paragraph 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 1 of the article opening the text of the decree-law. We know that the Government has decided to comply in an original, arbitrary and, in our opinion, illegitimate manner with the Court's ruling, excluding some refunds and not fully respecting the sentence. Previously, in support of Mr Serafini's previous amendment, I reiterated our Group's criticism of the way in which the Renzi Government wanted to disregard the decision of the Constitutional Court, as Senator Malan said first; now, with amendment 1.18 we are trying to remedy (there are others from other groups) by intervening on the percentage modulation of the repayment of these funds to pensioners who have been detained. I would also like to repeat, in order to keep track of this in our debates, that we are not talking about privileged positions or very high incomes. In fact, after the judgment of the Court, to justify the decree-law that did not comply with it, but limited the compensation to a small audience of pensioners, it was attempted to say that there were a number of rich, golden pensioners. We believe that interventions in relation to particularly significant incomes are understandable at a time of such great difficulty: we have voted on them in the past, there are in force and we hope that they will also resist any judgments, because sometimes the Court intervenes with particular sensitivity when some interventions also affect income bands or pensioners similar to those belonging to the Court or former members of the Court, in relation to caste. In fact, when we talk about these issues, about pensions or vitality, we accuse the political system (we see that even today this controversy is resumed by the President of the INPS), but the Constitutional Court has made pro-caste interventions, in favour of itself, shameful, intolerable, to protect itself and its genius. That must be said. Therefore, with regard to castes, the supreme recognition must be given to the Constitutional Court, a place of often surprising choices, I would even say unholy in self-defense of some hypercastes of state. Politics is considered the seat of the caste, but in the high bureaucracies of the State there are far more powerful and even self-protective towards themselves, having also the power to decide much more than Parliament. We believe that in this case the Court has done well to issue this judgment and that the Government has done wrong not to comply with it by an arbitrary decree-law. Amendments such as proposal 1.18 (but this may also apply to other texts from other groups) tend to restore greater correctness and wider implementation of the Constitutional Court ruling. For these reasons we denounce the arbitrariness of the decree-law in question and the iniquity of the measures, because we are not intervening to protect very high income groups. This measure can cover groups that are around 1,000 euros and little more than net income (since we also have to look at the net value of these pensions), therefore families that can be numerous and be supported only by the income represented by the pension that enters the home; we are not talking at all about privileged groups that can certainly bear interventions that the current phase has sometimes required and determined, also because the theme of social security and equity is re-proposed around the world. I do not know what is happening in these hours in the Greek Parliament, but I see that there, for example, would like to preserve baby pensions and in the measures taken by the Greek Parliament, some interventions have escaped. We are the Italian Parliament and therefore leave it to the Greeks, except that we Italians must not pay the baby pensions of Greece, which many obviously defended, because those who went to Athens from Italy wanted to give more money to Greece, obviously. Then I see that some have gone to criticism in Tsipras, but how? Tsipras wanted money! And so here we must have an audience of praiseworthy Greek baby pensions and at the same time the violation of the judgment of the Italian Constitutional Court to protect, not of the retired baby, but of the authentic, true, legitimate, Italian pensioners? We are not with the Greek pensioners, but with the Italian pensioners, and that is why we are tabling these amendments. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u63	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senator Serafini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment No 1.19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,19, tabled by Senator Munerato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u66	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, this amendment is quite simple but, because it is not explicit, I shall explain the end of it. With it we would just like to re-introduce the revaluation parameters introduced by the Led Government. With the 2014 Stability Act, No 147 of 2013, Letta noticed a twist that had been completed, a block made in 2012-2013. Therefore, the Stability Act provided that, for the three-year period 2014-2016, different valuation criteria would be returned. The Letta Government has not done much damage compared to those who preceded it and to those who succeeded him. He noticed that the Italians could no longer spend. But the Italians did not spend and domestic demand continued to fall because the Italians no longer had resources. The groups concerned (and here we go from pensions that net from 1100 to 2000 euros, that is from three to six times the minimum treatment) are the normal pensions of the middle class. If the average class also takes away the possibility of maintaining the purchasing power of spending unchanged, because the erosion is there and the adjustment is lacking, there are also the lack of resources that set in motion an economic circuit. We do not understand why the Renzi Government was important to start some extra spending, giving 80 euros with criteria, but not recognizing 50 euros to those who had the right to see them adjusted. Therefore, those who voted for the Letta government should also wonder why these parameters, which were good in 2014, strangely should not be good today. The amendment would therefore serve to do some justice. [[Applause from Senator Comaroli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u67	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.21, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.22, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senator Munerato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.23, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u70	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, this amendment of ours concerns the 2014-2015 and 2016 annual years, which are dealt with by the decree-law. The Government envisages, for treatments exceeding three times the minimum pension, the payment of indexing to the extent of 20 percent in the years 2014 and 2015. Here we are talking about rights denied to so many pensioners and it is also about giving them back in an arbitrary way, we do not know well in the name of what. As 5 Star Movement we propose a change through an amendment that establishes the 100% payment of revaluations for treatments up to eight times the minimum treatment from 2014 onwards. It should be recalled that, in compliance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 316 of 2010, the automatic equalisation of pensions had only been declared legitimate for treatments of more than eight times the minimum amount of the INPS. Therefore, this amendment, referring precisely to the equation for the years 2014, 2015 and 2016, tends to amend the decree under consideration by widening the parameters for indexing pensions to 100% for treatments up to the limit of eight times the minimum limit of the INPS. There has been a great deal of irregularity here: it would be nothing more than to put what has to be done back into place; that is, we must absolutely have certain rules for everyone, as our Constitution suggests. We have at least one parameter, but if it fails too, this really becomes the far west. We therefore call for the vote on this amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u71	In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.24, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.24, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.25, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.26, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.26, tabled by Senator Petraglia by other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.27, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,27, tabled by Senator Barozzino by other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1,28, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,28, tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.29, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.29, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.30, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.30, tabled by Senator Serafini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.31, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.31, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.32, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.32, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.33, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.33, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.34, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.34, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.35, tabled by Senator Serafini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100, presented by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.101, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.102, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.103, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Munerato, do you insist on voting on the agenda G1.104? MUNERATUS (Misto-FAL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.104, tabled by Senator Munerato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Munerato, do you insist on voting on the agenda G1.105? MUNERATUS (Misto-FAL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G1.105, tabled by Senator Munerato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.106, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u74	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, in the wake of what good Senator Gasparri said earlier, we would not want this measure to pass on to rose water. Our amendments to Article 1 have all been rejected, while on seven, eight agendas the government has a little pasted the pill, in the sense that it has, as it were, a little watered down with the reformulation proposal. I would now like to focus on this agenda, on which we have voted against it. Amendment 1.2 called for the deletion of Article 1, and Amendment 1.9 called for it to be replaced. Both amendments have been rejected, which has given us the feeling that a patch has been put in the hole of the Fornero law really worse than the hole itself; a patch so clumsy that not even the Constitutional Court has managed to hold it, causing the Government to change its mind. The possible rejection of this agenda would only confirm the negative assessment that we have given to the entire system of Article 1 of the measure under consideration, considering it necessary to repeal the pension reform carried out by the Fornero law, rather than an intervention aimed at wiping out its disastrous effects, inter alia by stepping up with the articles of this measure on the emergence of an emergency (see exodus, law 104, gold pensions and so on). The action of the Government is characterized by a series of errors on which the same must intervene in order to remedy. This is also confirmed by the provisions of Article 5 of the measure. In our view, Article 1 was not good: we have tried to modify and limit its effects, but we have not been able to do so even with the agendas - particularly the one under consideration - while we thought that it was essential for the establishment of the whole law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u77	BONDI (Mixed). Mr President, memory and consistency are the rarest commodity in this House. I claim the merit of voting in favour of pension reform, having decided with Berlusconi to support the Monti Government. That reform and the partial and temporary blocking of increases were among the most positive things in the Monti government. Out of respect for the facts, the Berlusconi Government also fell because, as Umberto Bossi recently acknowledged with political honesty, the League opposed the approval of a necessary pension reform. Now, representatives of Forza Italia, unaware of history and the news, try to hide their vote in favour of the Fornero reform and come out against a measure that saves the autonomy of Parliament, respects the motivation of the Consulta (a time place of communist judges) according to principles of justice and financial compatibility. I say this out of duty of truth. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u78	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,107, presented by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Divina, do you accept the rapporteur's rewording on the agenda G1.108?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u79	Could the proposed rewordings be repeated in order to better understand its content? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Rapporteur D'Adda, can you repeat the rewordings?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u80	It is proposed that the G1.108 agenda should be reworded as follows: "to consider the possibility of taking initiatives, including regulatory initiatives, aimed at making early retirement more flexible." On the agenda, Mr G1.109, the opinion supported the following rewording of the proposal: "to consider the possibility of making efforts to take further action in favour of so-called exodus workers." For the agenda G1.110 the proposed rewording is as follows: "to deepen the application effects of the measure, considering the desirability of adopting further legislative initiatives". For the agenda G1.111 the following rewording of the device is proposed: "to endeavour to identify and assess the risks arising from the litigation caused by Decree-Law No 65 of 2015, possibly by preparing regulatory interventions without resorting to the increase of taxation for the purpose of obtaining possible additional financial resources". The purpose of the G1.112 agenda is to amend it to this effect: to consider the possibility of taking further action to assist so-called exodus workers. The following rewording is proposed for the agenda arrangement G1.113: "to consider whether to give a positive solution, possibly even during the adoption of the 2016 Stability Act, to the case of school workers who, in the absence of the entry into force of the Fornero reform, would have fulfilled in 2012 the requirements for access to pension treatment." I confirm the favourable opinion on the G1.114 agenda. On the agenda, Mr G1.115, the opinion was in favour of the following rewording: As already expressed, the opinion was in favour of the G1.116 agenda and opposed to G1.117. On the agenda, Mr G1.118, the opinion was in favour of a rewording, which was as follows: It considers the possibility of taking initiatives, including legislation, aimed at recognising a more favourable pension treatment in respect of specific categories of staff operating in railway undertakings and railway infrastructure managers undertakings. The opinion was opposed to the draft agenda. On the agenda, Mr G1.120, the opinion was in favour of the following rewording: "to consider the possibility of taking initiatives, including regulatory initiatives, aimed at making the retirement of so-called early workers more flexible." The opinion on the agenda G1.121 is in favour of the following rewording of the mechanism: • to consider the possibility of taking initiatives, including regulatory measures, to extend the duration of the experimental scheme for access to retirement pension treatment for women workers by means of the contributory calculation called "women's option" •. On the agenda G1.122, the opinion supports the following rewording of the proposal: "to consider the possibility of taking initiatives, including legislation, aimed at granting pension benefits to workers who have been awarded a disability of more than 46 per cent and less than 74 per cent." On the agenda G1.123 the opinion is in favour with the following rewording of the device: "to assess the possibility of taking initiatives, including regulations, aimed at recognising the workers of Poste italiano Spa to take advantage of a constant update of the value of the bonus, after verification of the necessary financial compatibility".
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u81	Divine Senator, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G1.108 and subsequent ones at your first signature?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u82	The proposed rewordings, which I welcome without insisting on the vote, are quite linear because they reflect the content of the agenda. They're more elastic in operational terms for the government. In particular, I would like to mention the G1.108 agenda, which highlights a very serious and long-standing problem. Let's talk about early workers. In fact, if you do not establish a quota, necessary, you arrive at the paradox of a worker, a young man, who starts working at 15 years and must finish it at 62 and a half years. This person will have a working life of 47 or 48 years of actual work. A person who starts working between 14 and 15 years of age, normally does not do a good job, but does a light job. At the retirement age will come a destroyed person, so if we do not put the double figure, age and working age, we end up destroying even in the physical, as well as in everything else, these people. In this case, too, we accept the rewording, stressing that the quotas are used precisely to balance the cases of early workers who are around 60 years old but have already carried out more than 45 years of non-light physical activity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u83	Having been accepted by the Government, agendas G1.108 (text 2), G1.109 (text 2), G1.110 (text 2), G1.111 (text 2), G1.112 (text 2) and G1.113 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Marinello, do you insist on voting on agenda G1.114? MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Yes, Mr President, and also the subsequent agendas for G1.115, of which I welcome the rewording, and G1.116. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.114, presented by Senators Marinello and Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.115 (text 2), presented by Senators Marinello and Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.116, presented by Senators Marinello and Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.117, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Catalfo, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G1.118? CATALFO (M5S). Yes, and I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.118 (text 2), tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.119, presented by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas G1.120 (text 2) and G1.121 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Favero, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G1.122? FAVERO (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.122 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator De Cristofaro, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G1.123? De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Yes, Mr President, and I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.123 (text 2), presented by Senators De Cristofaro and Barozzino. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendments aimed at adding additional articles after Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u84	I am against both amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u85	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u86	We move on to amendment 1.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.2, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). (at 11.20 a.m.) The Presidency, in accordance with the provisions already laid down in the Commission, declares that amendments 2.0.1, 3.0.1, 5.6, 5-a.0.1, 5-a.0.0.2, 5-a.0.0.3, 6.1, 6.2 and 6.0.1 cannot be proposed in accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure because they are outside the content of the decree-law. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u87	I am against Amendment 2.1 and I am in favour of the adoption of the G2.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u88	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u89	We move on to Amendment 2.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Munerato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Munerato, do you insist on voting on the agenda for G2.100? MUNERATUS (Misto-FAL). Yes, I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.100, presented by Senator Munerato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would remind you that Amendment 2.0.1 is unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u90	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u91	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u92	Let us move on to Amendment 3.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote on both the amendments on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 3.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Munerato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.0.1 is not possible. We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u93	I am against Amendment 4.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u94	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u95	Let us move on to Amendment 4.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u96	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u97	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u100	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote on all the amendments on which the 5th Commission has voted against under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u101	We move on to Amendment 5.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Di Maggio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 5.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 5.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator Serafini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 5.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 5.4, tabled by Senator Di Maggio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 5.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.5 tabled by Senator Di Maggio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.6 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the examination of the agendas referred to in Article 5-a of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u102	On the G5-bis.100 agenda, I am in favour, provided that the following rewording is made to the system: "to assess the appropriateness and the possibility of working to provide for the provision, for parents who assist disabled children with total and permanent incapacity for work and to whom a 100% disability percentage is recognised, of applying for early retirement when the 30-year contribution requirement is met." On the G5 -bis.101 agenda, I am in favour, provided that the following rewording is made to the device: "to assess the appropriateness and the possibility of providing, experimentally for the three-year period 2015-2017, measures allowing employees in the public sector and employees or self-employed persons in the private sector, who assist disabled children with total and permanent incapacity for work and who are granted a 100% disability rate of early retirement".
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u103	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u106	Senator Divina, I remind you that you need to know from the presenter if you accept the proposed reformulations. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, whatever the choice of the presenter with regard to the reformulations, I would ask Senator Bignami, on behalf of all the members of the Northern League Group, to sign the agendas G5- bis.100 and G5- bis.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u107	The Presidency takes note of this, Senator Divine. I would ask the presenter whether she accepts the rewordings proposed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u108	I accept the proposed rewordings of both agendas for the simple fact that the decree-law is running out and therefore I am aware that it cannot be changed. With regard to the agenda G.5- bis.100, I see this as a promise, because there are many families who are waiting for the recognition of the right that we are talking about. We talk a lot about Europe, but that is one of the things that distinguishes us from Europe. In fact, we have not yet recognized the fatigue of the many mothers, who have to take care of even for twenty or thirty years - I do not speak of a year or two or the break of a leg - a disabled son on the wheelchair, who must be dressed, tempted and sometimes even fed. These families are engaged in a great deal of work and therefore I believe that after thirty years of work these parents can be entitled to a pension, because what they are called to is a tiresome commitment, even from a physical point of view. In Italy we have never taken such a courageous step and so I really want this commitment to become a promise to all those who have been waiting for this measure for years. I therefore accept the signing of the agenda by my colleagues who have requested it. Finally, I would like to ask that the G5 bis agenda be voted on. 100 and G5-a. 101 is carried out by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure. [[Applause from the PD, LN-Aut and Senator Repetto groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u111	MINEO (PD). I ask Senator Bignami to be able to sign the G5-a agenda. 100.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u114	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, it is unnecessary to stress the value of the text of the order of purpose in our examination, since the illustration just made, very well, by Senator Bignami speaks for herself. I therefore simply ask Senator Bignami to accept the subscription by the Senators of the Conservatori Group, Italian Reformists of this proposal, which indicates the great delay with which the country still accompanies the lives of those who are less fortunate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u117	DE PIN (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). I would like to ask you to sign Senator Bignami's agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u120	URAS (Misto-SEL). I would ask on behalf of the Senators of the Mixed SEL Group to sign the G5- bis.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u123	GATTI (PD). Mr President, I would like to remind you that the Italian Parliament has tried for a long time to find a solution on this matter. I would remind you that in the last parliamentary term, Mr Schirru's first draft law, which was able to pass unanimously to the House of Deputies and which, unfortunately, has been bogged down in this branch of Parliament. I think we'll have to get back to the problem in order to deal with it decisively. That is also why I ask, on behalf of Senator Lo Moro, to sign the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Carraro also announces that the Forza Italia Group intends to subscribe to the text. It is therefore a plebiscite, Senator Bignami.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u126	Senator Blundo, do you wish to request that the agenda be signed on behalf of the Group? At this point we can ask who does not intend to sign it, since I think most of my colleagues intend to do so. [[Applause]] BLUNDO (M5S). I would ask you to subscribe to the text, including on behalf of Mrs Fucksia, Mrs Catalfo and Mrs Bulgarelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u127	Since the text will be put to the vote, we will be able to testify to our accession by voting. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] I call on all senators who wish to sign the agenda to inform the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u130	PAGE (AP (NCD-UDC)). On behalf of all the Senators of the People's Area Group, I would ask you to sign the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u131	Senator Repetti also intends to sign it. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G5-a.100 agenda, so that the vote will make clear the position of each of us. Anyone who wishes to sign it will, however, be able to communicate it to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u134	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, the entire 5 Star Movement Group intends to sign this agenda. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Repetti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u135	Senator Bignami, do you accept these subscription requests?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u136	Yes, Mr President, I thank everyone and accept any kind of signature because I do not represent any political party, except a monoid, within Parliament: therefore, I accept all signatures in this sense, not in others.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u137	We shall therefore proceed with the vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5 -bis.100 (text 2), presented by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]] Unanimity has been achieved on a subject of great social importance.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u140	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, in the previous vote I was wrong to vote: I abstained while I wanted to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u141	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5 -bis.101 (text 2), presented by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now turn to the amendments aimed at adding additional articles after Article 5 (a) of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak. I would remind you that Amendments Nos 5-a. 0.1 5-a. 0.2 and 5-a. 0.3 are impossible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u144	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, I am speaking with regard to Amendment No 5-a. 0.3 which has been declared inadmissible and on which there is also the contrary opinion of the Budget Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution. A result which, in my opinion, if you allow me only one minute, Mr President, risks leading to the debriefing of a problem which, on the other hand, is of great importance in terms of people's welfare. In this specific case, however, we do not talk about the financial effects of people's welfare, because this text simply tries to heal a vulnus that I consider harmful to members of the Armed Forces who have been seen to subtract the possibility of completing their career with a recognition of the great value of their dedication to the State, in serving their Homeland: a sort of end activity sealed by a mere formal recognition. That is why I ask you to be able to re-evaluate the impponibility and I also address my colleagues in the Defence Commission, in particular President Latorre, since I had allowed myself to mention to him the need to address this issue, knowing that it has no financial significance, much less economic, but it is only a recognition, at the end of a career, to the officers of the Armed Forces so that they can see confirmed, sealed, recognized the value of their commitment. Mr President, I would ask you, if possible, to take responsibility for the revision of the impproposability of this text, which I would also accept to be able to turn into an agenda, so that such an important issue remains open for the Italian Armed Forces officers. At a time like the present one, I believe that to zero euros of impact on the state budget such a sign can be granted: to return to recognize the value of the career of the officers of our Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u145	Senator Bonfrisco, I know the matter, but in addition to being impossibile, the opinion of the 5th Commission is motivated and binding on the Presidency, which can only abide by the procedures. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u146	Mr President, I am against Amendments Nos 5-a.0.200, 5-a. 0.201 and 5-a.0.0.202.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u147	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u148	Let us move on to amendment 5-a.0.200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u151	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are asking for the vote, in accordance with Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure, on the amendments on which 5a The Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u152	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u155	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, there is rarely such a sharing as that achieved in the vote on the two agendas on the issue of families who have children or people with serious disabilities at home and who, at the end of their working lives, find themselves over-represented in dual internal and external activities. It seems to me that the spontaneously created subscriptions mean how much sensitivity there is to this issue and to problems that penalize so many families. With the amendments 5-a.0.200 and 5-a.0.201, Mrs Bignami rightly raises the issue in more coercive terms. It is good to adhere to a principle and to adopt commitments for the future. It would be good to immediately and normatively sanction that what we hear so commonly, and which has been expressed by two votes unanimously, is in fact established and codified in law. Apart from anticipating the League's vote in favour of these two amendments, I would ask Mrs Bignami, on behalf of all the Senators of the League, to be able to sign them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u158	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I accept the subscription, but I would like to clarify something a little strange called intellectual honesty. Amendment 5- bis.0.200, which I signed, was actually tabled by Senator Ghedini and had already been proposed in this House, gathering a very remarkable work of the senator that I wanted to resume simply by changing the date. This is a proposal which does not concern a definitive measure, but simply a three-year trial. Unfortunately, I have not heard the senator in this regard, but I think there is a problem of projection of the costs of this proposal. We're here, and we also have the right to have some courage. I know that in theory there is the problem of cover, but in reality it does not exist because, if a mother takes care of her child and has the pension, he will not go to a specialized center. And we all know that these centres, unfortunately, are largely the responsibility of the State. With the arrangement under consideration, in my opinion - and that's what Senator Ghedini had intuitioned - you would have a saving.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u161	SANTANGELO (M5S). I would ask Mrs Bignami to be able, on behalf of the entire 5 Star Movement Group, to subscribe to Amendments Nos 5-a.0.200 and 5-a.0.201.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u162	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 5-a.0.200, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 5-a.0.201, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 5-a.0.201, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 5-a.0.202, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5-a.0.202, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.1, 6.2 and 6.0.1 are unacceptable. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u163	I am against all the amendments. On the other hand, the opinion is in favour of the G7100 agenda if I accept the rewording that I am going to read. In the agenda, replace the words: "to put in place appropriate initiatives in order to arrive at the rapid repeal of the current system of silence assent of the conferral of the TFR into the Pension Funds" with the words: "to work to assess the desirability of modifying the current modalities of conferring the TFR into the Pension Funds."
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u164	Do the presenters accept the rewording? CATALFO (M5S). I welcome you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u165	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u166	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. I also call for the vote, under Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure, on the amendments on which the 5th Commission has voted against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 7.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.2, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u169	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to put to the record the correction of my vote on the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u170	The Presidency takes note of this. We move on to Amendment 7.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 7.3, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 7.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.4, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 7,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,200, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 7,201, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution and which has been requested to vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.201, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G7100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u173	MUNERATUS (Misto-FAL). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this Government, like its predecessors Monti and Fornero, wants to cash in and settle the accounts always on the shoulders of those who have worked for a lifetime in factories, yards or gardens. But, in fact, on the subject of work, President Renzi only visited the factories in suit and tie. The perplexities of the component that I represent about the measure that we are going to vote on have already been highlighted in the general debate. We were hoping that the debate and examination in this House would escape all doubt and uncertainty. On the other hand, no changes, no correctives, no acceptance of an amendment of ours that could convince us that the flat-rate reimbursement, instead of the total refund of what was owed to pensioners for the lack of indexing of pensions in 2012-2013, was the right way to restore a minimum of social equity. We share that it would be absurd to get into debt, and to make Italy run the risk of default, in order to return the failure to adapt to the cost of living to those who receive pensions of 8, 9 and even l0.000 euros per month. But then the government would have to have more courage and act differently. He should have allowed the implementation of the Constitutional Judgment to take its natural course and intervene with a revision of the Fornero reform, with an intervention on pensions that raised the amounts of minimum treatments; he would give back dignity to low pensions; he would reduce taxation on them and, above all, recalculate the so-called gold pensions with the contributory system - or at least set a ceiling. It remains for us the bitter observation that Article 1 of the measure is a posticcio remedy to the damages created by the Fornero reform and in respect of the diktat of Merkel and company. Our pensioners, our citizens, always come after. However, we cannot ignore the positive actions contained in the remaining articles of the measure, albeit limited in size. I am referring to the refinancing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation, including the fisheries sector and solidarity contracts. Applause also for the government's back-up of pensions payments on three different dates (the first of the month, the 10th and the 16th), depending on whether they were INPS, ex ENPAS or ex INPDAP treatments. For these reasons, appreciating some interventions brought by the decree-law, but remaining strongly sceptical about the lump-sum refund, I express on behalf of the component that I represent the vote against. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u174	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u176	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, our explanation of vote is very critical in announcing our vote against a measure which has its political core in Article 1, which fully reflects the spirit of the economic policies of this Government, namely the total absence of rationalization of expenditure and the propensity for new taxes and new commitments. In particular, this measure, by circumventing the judgment of the Court, does not return what is due to pensioners but grants them - not to all entitled persons, and with a clear violation of Article 3 of the Constitution - a small bonus calculated in contempt of the principles contained in Articles 36 and 38 of the Constitution. We have already made many comments during the debate on the question of the constitutionality of this measure. I am very sorry that the Senate deliberately rejected what we are saying. And let us not exclude that citizens will carry this measure, as the precedent from which it originates, under the lens of the Council, which will again be called upon to choose between the sacrosanct and legitimate right of citizens and the balance of the budget. And this will happen in the light of the fact that this Government, even though it has spoken too much about it, has not carried out a serious review of unproductive public expenditure, revision that would have prevented the introduction of unfair and vexatory measures such as those contained in Article 1. That is why we Conservatives and Reformists would have expected a measure to fully implement the effects of the Court's ruling, but that was not the case. A serious government - as we have said before, during the discussion of the amendments - would have proposed a measure that would return due to those entitled, perhaps with a multi-annual recovery plan, aimed at limiting the effects on the budget of the State that - as we recalled before - only for 2015 are worth 17 billion. On the other hand, we must note that, once again, the category of pensioners, from Fornero onwards, after a life of sacrifices made to build a pension that could meet their needs and life expectations, is called to make new and heavy sacrifices. Yet this measure contains measures that we cannot but share, including those contained in Article 2, which increase the Social Fund for Employment and Training by more than EUR 1 billion for 2015, in order to allocate new resources necessary to support the mechanism of social shock absorbers by way of derogation. In Article 3, an additional EUR 5 million is increased for 2015 by the Fund for the Integration Fund as a derogation for the fisheries sector, and this measure is also important. In Article 4, we are devoting EUR 140 million to solidarity contracts, and we are also in solidarity with this. These are all measures which we believe to be acceptable: they are a pity that they are included in a measure which, in Article 1, carries with it such a vulnus which will make it impossible to avoid a new judgment of the Court. And this will happen not in the parliamentary classrooms or through the representation of citizens in Parliament, but on the judgment of the judiciary. On another sensitive point of the measure we express strong reservations. I am referring to the risk of what will determine, for the purposes of the pension, the mechanism identified for the revaluation of the coefficient of contribution, which cannot be less than one. Moreover, the forecast included in the text of Article 5, unless recovery to be made on the subsequent revaluations of that differential between the real value and one attributed to the contributing pillar, in addition to not clarifying who bears the burden of the decision of the said recovery, risks having a negative effect of dragging recovery in case of a coefficient less than one in the following years, as a clear impact on the pension. It is clear that the pensions of the future have a dose of uncertainty and an uncertain part that grows more and more. And this is also the reason why the Group of Italian Conservators, Reformists, votes against this wrong, unfair and unjust measure. [[Applause from Senator Pagnoncelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u177	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u179	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would say that we can also skip the issue of constitutionality at the moment, in the sense that nothing can stand here anymore. For years this Republic has been going on with pillars and principles, but today the Constitutional Court's rulings are no longer worth anything and we can skip even. So we can only regret what the near future might be if this is the beginning of the present Government. On the contents we can say that, if people have some extra money in their pockets, except for the few who feed on it - but we do not know people who eat money - they spend it, doing nothing but setting in motion a virtuous circuit for the economy. There is stagnation when families do not spend; there is well-being when everything circulates at a certain speed. And it seems that Renzi and his Government had also understood it: when, in fact, they decided to make that beautiful proposal, the gift of the 80 euros - even in the electoral campaign and probably aimed at an image maneuver of other nature - some experts in the economy must have given them a suggestion. They must have told him that putting 80 euros in the pockets of certain groups of people would probably have left at least a crumb of domestic demand, because it would have touched - as this measure also does - that group of people or incomes that are said not to be prone to savings. Let it be clear that these people are not "cical" but do not have a propensity to save because they have to spend everything they have, all their income to live. Why, therefore, give 80 euros in a demagogic way and not recognize a right, the pension adjustment, which could sometimes correspond to much less (30, 40 or 50 euros)? That's what you ask yourself. Our story is, fortunately, made of freedom and guarantees. They reward the deserving and those who profit, even though they lack the means. The aim is to bring worthy people to social mobility which is as high as possible. Modern and democratic states are characterised by important social mobility. For the first time in the history of the Republic, however, we are witnessing reverse social mobility, downwards: let us take the middle class, which is what has always saved internal demand, and let us try to bring it into poverty. Not to recognize to a person who has 1,440 euros gross pension - which means little more than 1,100 euros net - the adaptation to the power of spending and to the cost of living means to take groups of population just self-sufficient and to bring them back to risk, or in any case in social poverty. A beautiful mobility invented the Renzi Government! We also understand the convenience of these operations. When you do not know where to go to brush, it is difficult to make important, calibrated and just reforms. So what do we do? You look at the world and you tax everything that comes out of the ground and is visible, like the house that, in our country, is the most tartassata in Europe. Whoever has a house, ergo, is rich and cannot hide it - alive God - so the house must be beaten in the form of forceful tax withdrawal. For pensions it is just as easy. The house emerges from the land and the list of pensioners is in the possession of public bodies. So, after evaluating how much you have to spend in a month and how much you have to pay instead in retirement, you do four calculations and you get back the accounts, but on whose skin? On the skin of people who get to earn just enough income to ensure a decent life. At this point one cannot but call into question the union. You'd have to wonder where the unions went in this country. Is there still a union? Are there still workers' protections? Renzi has allowed himself everything and I think, first of all, of the reform of the job. I remember that, when previous center-right governments spoke of inbound flexibility, threatening or suggesting to revise the rigid formula of Article 18, there was the revolution. The unions jumped with their feet on the tables: Article 18 could not be touched. Well, Renzi's government has made it a waste of time: labour reform, jobs act, exclusion of Article 18 for new recruits. I am thinking, again, of the reform of the school: an area in which it has always been negotiated, although it has always been disgusted by every new government, bringing a new Minister of Education who has put in nothing what had been done before, and also creating a bit of chaos and little legislative continuity in that reality. Very well, Renzi managed to do a reform of the school without even questioning the interested, that is the body of the teachers. [[Applause from Senator Mussini]] When can a government ever afford to make such an important reform without even talking to stakeholders? We're going to pensions. The unions were completely silent. Let's take the three bands, of which the richest earns 1,700 euros per month. The richest, starting at the beginning of the scale, earns 1,150 euros per month. Let us take this line and tell him that he must share in the consolidation of public finances, that we will not cut the waste and unproductive expenditure of public administration because it is more convenient to cut pensions. The unions can't hear each other. I believe that if a center-right government had done half of these operations, there would be no clear Italian square: there would be the revolution and the Italian people would be called by the unions in the various squares of our country. [[Applause from the Senator Council]] When a government does these games - it takes a court ruling, interprets and elaborates it to substantially circumvent all the innovative door - it succeeds because there is always a majority that says that they can go well, but they are genuine clever. When a government brings to a Parliamentary House measures that are the result of cleverness, it means that it lasts very little, it is a government on the path of decline. We are basically fruity and we must also be honest: we do not tear our clothes if this government decides to arrive at the end of the line. In fact, we will toast Latina: nunc est bibendum. Dear President Renzi, your time has probably come. In any case, enjoy a peaceful summer. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u180	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u182	D'ANNA (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PpI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, Dario Antiseri is a professor who teaches history of political doctrines at the Luiss and is a lover of liberalism who wrote a beautiful book - indeed a pamphlet, whose title is: 'Free': the real ones and the false ones - which should be distributed in this House. I have heard from the mouths of liberal phrases that know about socialism and statism and I will probably hear something liberal from the mouths of socialists and statists. But since we are surfing on sight here and, by now, political cultures and values are an optional point of reference, this can happen and has happened. And I will dwell on the last part of the intervention of the Divine Senator, who explained to me that, if these things had been done to her by the Government of center-right, there would have been the fast at the corners of the streets for the anti-Berlusconian demagogy. But the center-right government had done a reform of the school as Renzi did, it would have done exactly its duty. He would do what he had to do and he didn't. He would have introduced criteria for assessing merit, evaluation criteria for both teachers and learners and would have introduced skills, merit and professionalism in a sector that ataviously was nothing more than a social shock absorber, aimed at creating jobs and not at improving the knowledge and education of our children. And today, here, what are we talking about? First of all, we are talking about a judgment of the Constitutional Court which recalls Parliament, before it is wrong, to the fact that it has not allowed, in the Fornero law, all those who would then have suffered the cuts, to opt between the contributory system and the pay system. Since this opportunity has not been given, the Court asks that these persons be given back what, under the pay system, was to be recognised by law. We are again faced with the eternal and insurmountable obstacle of acquired rights. I do not know whether there is a perfect awareness in this House of the fact that, on a state budget of 630 billion, 300 billion is spent on pensions and, therefore, their disbursement in this nation accounts for 50% of the economic availability. Why is this happening? It is because, over the last fifty years, pension policy, the policy that has used the lever of public spending, has granted benefits and granted rights without having the money and using the amount of the increasing public debt. This condition no longer exists. So I would like to know - and I am sorry that Senator Bonfrisco is not here now, who represents a group that refers to British conservatives and liberals - who pays for this lunch. Milton Friedman, head of the liberal economists school, says that in economics no lunch is ever free. The 18 billion which, according to the Constitutional Court, must be returned to pensioners - I have not heard, perhaps I have been distracted - where do you take them, if not by the increase in the tax system? [[Applause from the Senator Council]] If we are all patrons, all in favor of solidarity, all charitable, well, I advise you to read another book whose title is: "The dangers of solidarity" written by Sergio Ricossa. We have reached 2,200 billion euros of debt and the fourth item of expenditure is the interest on this debt, which amounts to 80 billion euros, precisely because of the misunderstanding sense of solidarity not supported by availability. And, therefore, the opposition votes against, even if they should tell us where they take the biggest funds to satisfy all those who, according to them, should be content. And the government does not raise the question of the proposal for a new pension reform. Ladies and gentlemen, if the first two items of expenditure are pensions and salaries (300 billion pensions and 166 billion salaries), we come out of the economic crisis if we reorder the system of acquired rights, which are no longer sustainable in the field of pensions, and the tasks and functions of the State, which has 4 million employees costing 166 billion (the second item of expenditure) and which continues to pay for the single day of presence. The rest is crawling around the problem. It's not like I'm against pensioners. I'm disliked when I make these statements, and I don't wear the patron, the philanthropist, the solidarityist's shoes. But we need to rethink the pension system, in which 12 million Italians - I say 12 - with the pay system still in operation take a 60% higher pension than they would be entitled to as self-employed workers (and I am one of those), who have a pension equal to the contributions paid. Why don't we raise the minimum pensions instead of being philosophers on the stands? If a right is no longer economically viable, the lowest part of the scale must be supported, where those who cannot live with retirement and not those who have the greatest difficulty in living are found. It's Tsipras' reasoning: I can't cancel the social state, ergo I can't return the money you gave me (as if this were not an aspect of the government's dissipation, but a fault of the bad guys who gave him the money and who, now, claim to see them return). This is the upside down world. Mr President, the Group of the Great Autonomies and Freedoms will vote against the measure. This is the warrant I received. I, personally, pre-announce the abstention vote. I do not agree with either the socialists who do the liberals or the Liberals who think like the socialists. The truth is that we must return EUR 18 billion to 4.4 million pensioners, which we do not have. Either we cut somewhere - but I didn't hear this - or we continue to increase the taxation, probably, of the same middle class that must be given back, i.e. the 500 euros at the end of August. What do we want to talk about here if we do not tackle at the root those system reforms that confirm the maximum state, pauperistic, redundant, bureaucratic and inefficient that has been built with the levers of debt and public spending in the last 50 years, or rebuild a minimal and efficient state in which solidarity is certain for the underdogs, the disadvantaged and the unemployed, and not for those who, to tens of millions, continue to perceive from the Erario what they have not paid? Gentlemen, continuing to bestow on contemporaries the cost on posterity has been the exercise of the Governments of the Republic since 1980 to date. This was because posterity did not vote and did not protest. At a time when Maastricht, Europe and the heavy burden of public debt do not allow us to squander debt, posterity has arrived and the younger generations no longer find a State that hires and businesses that are willing to work and have no professional or life opportunities. If someone does not give up what he unduly took, even camouflaging it under the voice of right or right acquired, the situation does not resolve itself. Dear friends of the 5 Star Movement, we can also put in Parliament the most honest parliamentarians in the world, but would the heavens want our problems to reside only in the honesty of the rulers. It's not like that. It's a becero system, structurally disassembled, redundant, cost-effective. Statalism costs and poor people pay for it. If then someone in this Parliament really wants to reform this idea of the state, it must come with these types of reform, not with the warm cloths of those who want to reach up to 2,000 euros of pension and not pay those with a pension from 2,000 to 3,000 euros. Excuse me, why should those with a pension from 2,000 to 3,000 euros not be granted their right to take what is due to them? Who are you? You must fight poverty, not wealth! If there is a right to see malting recovered for those who take 2,000 euros of pension, there is the same right for those who take 3,000. Otherwise, do the socialists, if you want to do it: reset all pensions, calculate them all with the contributory method and not with the pay method and bring the minimum pension to 1,000 euros per month, because that is the need to be filled. These Italian brothers and sisters must be given the right to live easily and to live and eat until the end of the month. [[Applause from Senator Council.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u183	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u185	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, this is a provision for the conversion into law of a decree-law and, consequently, it has not allowed any of us to choose between the articles it contains and those to be voted on and those not to be voted on. We will have to vote on the whole measure and, in this sense, we have been deprived once again, because this is the mechanism now in use in Parliament, of the possibility of giving our assent to the refinancing of the Social Fund for Employment and Training, in particular the increase to be allocated to social shock absorbers by way of derogation. Similarly, we have been deprived of the possibility of voting in favour of the refinancing of solidarity contracts. We would have liked, for these specific topics, to express our opinion of consensus and support the demands that come from the trade union world and that they have raised in these months, as every time (even when examining the law of stability), the need to integrate the resources that are destined for this purpose. We will be forced to vote against, especially on two issues. The first appears marginal in this measure, but it is not, and concerns what part of the press calls the TFR flop into paychecks. Only 800 out of a million workers, 0.08% [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] , has access to this institution, declaring its full bankruptcy and understanding how dangerous and non-profitable this instrument was for workers and businesses (the enterprises which manage part of their business on the FTT and on the provisions of the FTT). We are voting in favour of this measure, particularly as regards the matter of the reinstatement of the right to pensions and pensions, i.e. the blocking of adjustments. We vote against it because we think it affects the rules system. Look, this is what we are discussing these days, in terms of what Europe we want and whether there really is a political Europe on which to base the future of our new generations, but also the whole of our communities. This comparison is based on the rules and compliance with the rules we gave ourselves. Each time, due to economic and financial pragmatism or to the needs of the last hour, the establishment of the rules, which up to now have not undergone changes - changes that weigh, for which constitutional revision procedures are established - is systematically called into question. Sometimes they are not called into question in the offices of public authority and political representation, but in the forums of the political-media debate, making that debate even the place where the revision of the legal provisions must be completed. It was famous the way in which the television broadcast "Porta a porta" was defined: "the third Chamber of the State" (while we want to abolish one of the two); in fact, it defined the political events of the country and even the normative direction to adopt. Well, we want to draw attention to the fundamental and unchangeable rules, to those on which the pact has been achieved among citizens, which make this country a civil society, in which there are rules and in which the state cannot violate them. That is why the Constitutional Court exists to ensure that these rules are not violated. When they are violated there is the intervention of the Court, which recalls the Government and the public authority to their respect - as it did with the sentence we have spoken of - and the restoration of the law to which we must all obey. The law! I would particularly like to draw attention to this point concerning work, workers and the pact that workers have concluded with the State and with their community. It is the right - and not a privilege - to the recognition, commensurate with the years and decades of the work carried out, of an income that allows them a free and dignified life, as provided for in the Italian Constitution. Therefore, when this pact is violated, even for economic and financial reasons, accounts and public expenditure, it must be placed on the balance which rules and constitutional rules prevail, remembering that the Republican Constitution is founded on the rights of the category of workers. I repeat: Italy is a democratic Republic founded on work, not on the banks and the privileges of this or the caste, not on other issues, of which we can be invented, not on the basis of Article 81 of the Constitution, that is, on the balance of the budget [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] , but based on work and therefore on those who do it, i.e. workers, whether retired, in employment or unemployed. The Constitutional Court intervenes for this - and I conclude - to define a path, that is to restore the law, to regulate the needs of public finance differently, to find an answer to the budgetary needs, intervening on other chapters and not on this. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u186	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u188	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I shall briefly describe, in five points, the reasons for our vote in favour. The first is the sharing of the sentence, in the sense that it cannot fail to be recognized as consistent with all the orientation that the Consulta has had over the years; as such we must say self-critically that it was also predictable. The Consultative Committee has insisted that the pact with the State, especially pensioners and pensioners, i.e. those who do not have time to recover a change in this pact, can only be temporarily, limitedly, proportionally, but never structurally modified, as in practice happened repeatedly excluding a large part of the population of pensioners from the adjustment of the benefit to the cost of living. The second consideration concerns the decree-law, which transposes this judgment in coherent terms. I believe that any appeal will be reasonably rejected by the Court, even if we must acknowledge that it penalises medium and medium-low pensioners, those who are at risk also in relation to the further interventions threatened by the President of the INPS regarding that recalculation of benefits which I will say shortly. The penalization of these pensioners is achieved by a bond of public finance that we objectively recognize as inescapable, but in some way we must remember this, to some extent put their position to credit. The third point concerns the near future. This is a provision that we can consider as a bridge to that completion and correction of the Fornero law in the next law of stability, as repeatedly announced. The next law of stability will allow us, that is, to correct a law that, in my opinion, is for many inhumane traits, in the literal sense of the term: that does not take account of the human condition, with the rigidity that it introduced and with respect to which reality then avenged with the 12 billion commitments that we have made for the so-called exodus. We will have to deal here with the flexibility, certainly penalized, of the retirement age, because otherwise we would condemn many people who are already adults to a condition of reasonable impoverishment by not being able to have either pension or salary. On the other hand, I hope that we will encourage those voluntary payments by the worker, the employer, even the former employer, which can strengthen the single social security position, i.e. by making it possible to recover periods of study or non-employment. We must also promote the influx of social security savings to the first pillar, which, moreover, does not and would not contradict the desirable development of the second pillar of social security, because when the social security culture grows, when the attitude to set aside for tomorrow grows, to predict and to provide, I believe that we end up encouraging a more general propensity to organize their future. The fourth point concerns our decided refusal - as I mentioned earlier - to any hypothesis of recalculation of pensions according to the contribution method, method of calculating the benefit, I repeat, not a funded system, as is the one in force with the supplementary funds. Therefore, a system which is always distributed, which is supported by intergenerational solidarity, but which, if it were to give rise to a recalculation of the benefits already paid or paid, that is those pensioners or pensioners who do not have time to recover a change of regime, would inevitably lead the Consulta to intervene once again, rejecting those measures (then we are not surprised if this should happen). We are strongly opposed to any form of recalculation. As I said, the consulta allows transitional measures on benefits, it does not protect the rights asked for 100%, in the sense that it does not protect them eternally, so much so that it has recognized measures in force such as the solidarity levy, but it asks for those criteria I mentioned earlier: transitionality, proportionality, limited intervention, never of a structural nature. I advise the Government not to contribute to this general climate of insecurity that characterizes our time, letting such announcements can be made at a time when the contraction of consumption and the corresponding increase of savings certainly do not help the recovery. Finally, the fifth and final consideration is on a proposal that I have been allowed to make in recent days, during the debate on the future of the European Union that should spring from the story of the recovery of Greece, let us wish ourselves sustainable, in the context of monetary union and political union. I think it is time to deal with the issue of social security. We are not yet ready for a fiscal union, which is desirable, but we should start with a social security union that has the most significant voice in the budgets of the Member States, because it has its own consistency and, on the other hand, is motivated by long-term sustainability reasons that contribute to the stability of the Union's public finances. I am referring to a social security union that is achieved through progressive convergence, towards shared and common parameters. Italy can be the most reasonably interested country in this social security union and this convergence, and with them a stronger cohesion of the communities that are part of the Union is achieved, because today it has the most rigid and sustainable system in the Union. Today we are the strictest country. As we have mentioned several times, German women will meet the retirement requirements ten years after the age when Italian women will reach them. Convergence is right, it contributes to a sense of fairness and cohesion throughout the Union, as I said, and it is useful from the point of view of the sustainability and stability of the Member States' budgets. With these sentiments and above all with these commitments, we reaffirm our vote in favour. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u189	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u191	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, today we are called to convert this decree-law into law, which should follow the decision of the Constitutional Court and which should compensate all those pensioners, about 5 million, to whom indexing has been unduly withheld. We of the 5 Star Movement believe, as the decree shows, that this return is only partial and does not correspond to what is written in both the judgment n. 70 of 2015 and in the previous n. 16 of 2010, which specified that a suspension could be made, but only for a limited period of time. The original impact assessment on the return in full of what was unconstitutionally collected from millions of pensioners corresponds to approximately 17.6 billion euros, while the government's move to return amounts to only 2.1 billion euros. Already from these numbers we see how the decree-law that today is the subject of vote could be baptized by another name; the government does not want me to, but many pensioners have told me this word, so I repeat it in this House: decree-give. Many pensioners have even told me that with this almsgiving they want nothing to do and that if anything they return it. This is almsgiving because the refund intervention is only partial: in fact pensioners with a pension of up to four times the minimum will receive amounts that are derisory, that is, only 40% of the amounts unduly withheld; those between four and five times the minimum only 20%, between five and six times the minimum only 10%, leaving all the other pension bands not covered. There is talk of alms because the intervention of return, which even, as I said in the previous speech a few weeks ago, this government sold as a Poletti bonus (and I think it is not really correct for pensioners to use the word bonus to partially compensate for a right enshrined in the Constitution), is configured as a one-off payment and involves a small revaluation of the pension calculation base for the years 2012 and 2013, which will compete only to the extent of eight percent, four percent and two percent for the three bands of reimbursement on the basis of pension calculation 2014. In the future, therefore, pensioners will continue to have an inadequate pension and in practice a poor recognition on the basis of pension benefits. This is almsgiving especially if we take into account the fact that when the Government had the will to finance interventions that provided for important financial resources, it did so. I would like to remind this Government, the House and the majority of them of the famous bonus (times again in this case) of the 80 euros, which committed resources of more than nine billion euros. Therefore, when you want to find, the resources are found and at this time, just because pensions are involved even quite low, the compensation had to be found. Among other things, the EUR 80 bonus has had no positive effect on the economy and has had a laughable impact, even 6% (so very low) on the poverty line and therefore on relative poverty. To the former Minister Fornero we can certainly assume the technical responsibility for a law that continues to do damage after five years and that today, in a clear and decisive way, we can consider a disaster on all fronts, from this to that of the exodates. That reform has created - precisely - the emergency of the exodus that this Parliament and this Government still do not want to resolve; we therefore hope that some agendas that have been accepted on the subject of exodus finally put an end to this word, which is even not recognized when it is written on the computer, so even the Italian language does not recognize the word exodus. Let's finally end this mess. On the other hand, the Democratic Party can be given full political responsibility for the legislative chaos in pension matters caused by the very approval of the Fornero law. We remember this and all Italians always remember it. The current government is a democratic-led government that goes ahead with the sound of commercials, bonuses, as if we were in a television show, in a prize-winning game; as if this was a lottery payout and not the result of the restoration of the legality of a sentence and of the rights enshrined in the Constitution. Not to mention, and I also say this to Senator D'Anna who has just spoken, the lack of interest to counter the privileges of the caste, the double assignments, the vitality, the golden pensions, which are precisely the points on which we should act to go and recover resources, and not to recover certain resources from pensioners. Moreover, the government risks a future pronunciation of unconstitutionality, so much so that, in this case too, the rapporteur has done well to accept the agendas presented by some senators, precisely because the risk of unconstitutionality exists and can be presented in the future. We remember, in fact, that the judgment 316 of 2010 says that pensions can be suspended only and only above eight times the minimum. In addition, I repeat in this House and I also say to Senator D'Anna, that the 5 Star Movement has made certain proposals, with its amendments, and in full implementation of the two judgments: 70 in 2015 and 316 in 2010. We planned to compensate EUR 13 billion, certainly not all of them together, because it is clear that doing so at one time can be difficult, but with immediate compensation for pensions from three to four times the minimum, which clearly concern a group of citizens who are also in serious family situations. In fact, it is precisely the pensioner who goes to support the family, the unemployed, the grandson. We see such cases every day because, talking to citizens, we know what conditions they are in. For example, in a country in Sicily I found 200 pensioners crying on the street because, although they had a pension of 1,000 euros, they had to pay very important taxes. The TASI, for example, reached up to 1,000-1,500 euros; their municipality proposed this to them and then wept. Let us think, then, when we go to do such work, going to recover resources precisely on those groups that, at this time, could also be weak groups because the government and politics have not put into effect what they should have put in place in these years. In our amendments, we also called for action to be taken by means of measures to strengthen centralized purchases of service goods, immediate intervention on spending reviews, to rationalise expenditure. We call for an end to the austerity policy which has not brought about any socio-economic development for the country and which has only caused the citizens to suffer cuts in pensions and social policies; precisely those social policies for which the European Commission wanders us and which it tells us to restore. The OECD-ISTAT projections on the Italian pension system draw a dramatic picture for pensioners of the future. The pensions calculated with the current system will not reach a third of the average salary of the workers, creating a new army of poor; pensioners who will have no protection from the current system of pensions, except through the institution that we propose (and I also tell Senator D'Anna, because there is a political movement that has proposed something different) of the income of citizenship, a measure that proposes in fact an increase of pensions to a minimum of 780 euros monthly. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]] So, there's a movement that has been fighting for this in these classrooms for months. The proposal of the 5 Star Movement, present in all European countries, serves to restore dignity also to those citizens who have worked for a lifetime and to whom this Government and previous governments have denied and are denying in essential rights guaranteed by our Constitution. The 5 Star Movement, therefore, will vote no to this measure for respect for millions of Italian pensioners who, again on this occasion, are neglected by the Government, as well as in compliance with the judgments of the Constitutional Court. We do not bow to the interests of Europe and the Europe of banks, nor to austerity or the troika that trample on the rights and will of our country's citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u192	Whereas, at 1 p.m., the sitting is to be closed and the Conference of the Leaders has been convened at the end of the sitting, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u195	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, politics and camorra: shot at the clan of the Casalesi, 13 people arrested; in the sight of a system of corruption in the bodies of water services in Campania. We are asking for water to become public ( [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] , because it must be a common good that cannot be touched by private interests. In Campania we have a company in particular, called Gori, whose president is among the people for whom the arrest was requested, currently the deputy of the FI-PdL XVII Carlo Sarro. Mr President, here we are faced with a camorristic organization that puts its hands everywhere, unfortunately once again also in politics. We ask the other parties to put a hand on their consciences - which they unfortunately do not have - and to go and see who the candidates are on their lists. For our part, let us at least consider the criminal record and make sure that the person has not done more than two mandates, otherwise he is not an individual who puts himself at the service of the people, but who is probably creating his own kingdom. That's why the thought of the 5 Star Movement is revolutionary: take it, at least this; steal it, the thought! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Mr President, I would at least ask that the party of membership be obliged to resign that Member, who is now also Vice-President of the Justice Commission of the House of Deputies! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u196	You are talking about a Member and the investigations have yet to be made, so we are not called upon to deliver judgments. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-484.ana.u197	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.54.
