ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u3	The next item is questions and questions. First, the 2-00274 interview on the stabilisation of teachers eligible for the 2012 competition will take place. I call Senator Amidei to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u4	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, first of all I would like to thank you for this opportunity, which is a posthumous opportunity compared to the time when I presented the questioning. Therefore, I will develop the argument at two times. The first, on the substance, where I must also point out positively how the requests were accepted after my questioning. So, in this sense, I have already anticipated my satisfaction. The other time, on the other hand, concerns the response times, which have not been adapted to the period in which I submitted the questioning, i.e. on 13 May. So it's been almost seven months. This, therefore, is one of those rare cases in which one is nevertheless satisfied that one's claims have been accepted. The subject of my questioning has already been mentioned in the title. Therefore, I basically, perhaps even buying some time, already arrive at what was supposed to be an answer to what the government representative would probably have told me. This does not, however, undermine my possibility of the next reply. I would like to thank the President and the Undersecretary once again. My task, as I said before, would be to illustrate this questioning, which I presented in the middle of May on the reform of the education system. At that time, this reform, commonly called good school, was subject to parliamentary procedure. More specifically, the Chamber of Deputies began examining the bill presented by the Government. Among the qualifying points of the measure was the provision authorising the permanent recruitment of many categories of precarious teachers. The plan proposed by the Government, however, presented a serious gap that the undersigned, and Forza Italia first, denounced in Parliament with this interrogation. Specifically, those who were eligible for the competition held in 2012 (and I say this for those who did not understand the reason for the act under consideration) found themselves, unexpectedly and unjustly, excluded from the recruitment measure, despite the many assurances of the minister, Stefania Giannini, and of the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Matteo Renzi. We recalled in the text how the candidates of the 2012 competition have passed the hardest and most selective competition in Republican history: according to the data of the Ministry of Education, out of 327,000 aspirants have passed all the tests only in 20,000 winners and eligible. This means that only 6.1 percent of aspirants have been successful or eligible. Disembodiing from the foretold total those who eventually proved to be winners (about 11,000), it is found that less than 3 percent of the aspirants who supported the trials later became eligible. In addition, we recalled that this selection was even harder (percents around 2% of eligible students) in those competition classes, such as childhood school and primary school, where, following the previous competition in 1999, thousands of candidates were eligible; now they are in the run-up rankings (GAE) and are waiting to be hired. With this questioning, the undersigned and Forza Italia wanted to denounce the iniquity of the original formulation of the government bill, according to which the candidates for a competition of 1999, sixteen years old, which made suitable percentages even of 40-50 percent of the aspirants, but not those of the contest of 2012 that, as reported, are exclusively 3 percent of the participants. That just summarized was the framework that presented itself to Parliament at the early stage of the reform. And in this context this interrogation has been formulated. During the parliamentary process, following the reports of Forza Italia and other political actors and civil society, the issue of exclusion from the assumption plan of the eligible of the 2012 competition ended positively. These subjects, too, have become fully part of the teachers to be stabilised and we want to think that my interrogation has helped to shed light on a problem that had to be resolved in good time. Widening the analysis on the level of recruitment in general, we can observe a posteriori that the total package of admissions realized will not reach 87.000 units, less compared to the more than 100.000 assumptions announced in recent months by the Government: a difference mainly due to the lack of availability, apparently, of candidates qualified for the teaching of scientific subjects. However, it's okay to have given a positive response to the eligible in the 2012 contest, but the political method of conducting relations with Parliament is bad, as I said before (and here I insert myself in the second part of my questioning, which I followed with a motion to this effect, filed a few days ago): precisely because of the constant non-compliance of the Commission in providing promptly the political explanations required by parliamentarians with acts of inspection union, the famous interrogations, questions and anything else, we find ourselves at the paradox of asking a question and being forced to answer ourselves, a bit like the famous phrase of the good Marzullo: Ask yourself a question and give yourself an answer. We're almost in the same situation here. Today, once again, we are here to comment on another chapter that mortifies the functions and the very nature of the institution of Parliament, the sovereign body of the representation of citizens. In fact, as I have said several times and as I will do in the future, parliamentary acts calling the Government to account for its actions and political intentions are almost always ignored by the representatives of the Executive, in open violation of both the Chamber and Senate Regulations and the constitutional norms relating to the function of control that the Chambers exercise over the Government. For each of the inspection union tools available to Parliament, the Regulation sets out a specific timetable to be followed, with answers that - in the case of maximum expansion of time - must still arrive within and no more than one month, with reference to the questions, which are those that need the greatest times that are granted. To date, however, the percentage of the acts that have been answered is about 19%: in my opinion, it is also excessive, because I was stuck at much lower data (even one in ten), with an average time of around six months, on average, when it's okay. This very serious problem was first raised with an urgent questioning, presented by myself, which after five months has not been answered, then with a motion, both presented by me as the first signatory, but signed transversally by senators and senators belonging to different parliamentary groups and by all the group leaders of the various political opposition forces, who are nevertheless entitled to say theirs. The backwardness of the acts pending response grows weekly, but the Government does not seem to want to change an inexplicably and seriously deaf position to the demands of parliamentary control over its work. I would remind you that Mr Boschi, at each Council of Ministers, has broken down the numbers relating to the legislative implementation of the programme of government and the disposal of secondary acts to be adopted. I would like to take this opportunity to suggest to you that you use as much care and punctuality in summing up to the Ministers the data on the stock of the inspection union of the respective Departments, inviting them to take courage and begin to respond regularly to the acts of inspection union. You see, Mr. Undersecretary, President Gasparri - and like him many others - has repeatedly had the opportunity to bear these constant and perhaps nagging demands of mine in this regard, but I take another opportunity for you, as a representative of the Government, to be truly the promoter and champion of these requests which do not only concern the undersigned or the political force he represents, but all the colleagues in the Senate. Today there are some, because the acts of inspection union obviously concern only a few, but if we were all here, all together we could only shout unanimously: Please answer our questions and questions. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u5	Perseverance is sometimes rewarded, Senator Amidei. The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u6	Mr President, the question in question concerns the candidates for the competition for posts and chairs, for titles and exams, aimed at recruiting the teaching staff of the state schools banned by directorial decree No 82 of 24 September 2012, which would have been excluded, as Senator Amidei recalled earlier, from the entry into role according to the original text of the bill on good school. As you know, Parliament has finally adopted this bill. Law 107 was published in the Official Journal No 162 of 15 July 2015. The question raised by the honourable Member has found a complete and comprehensive answer in the final text where, contrary to the original text of the draft law as referred to in the questioning, it was provided that the eligible candidates of the 2012 competition could be involved at all stages of the extraordinary assumption plan referred to in paragraphs 95 et seq. of the Single Article. This plan covered the coverage of all the common posts and support of the statutory staff, which remained vacant and available to the results of the placement operations carried out for the school year 2015-2016 pursuant to Article 399 of Legislative Decree No 297 of 1994, plus the additional posts related to the staffing of the upgrading set out in Table 1 annexed to the same law. This table does not include children's school places, in the mores of the institution of the integrated system of education and education from birth up to six years, for which paragraph 181 gives the Government special legislative delegation. The operations of the extraordinary assumption plan have concerned the subjects inserted in full title, on the date of entry into force of the law n. 107, both in the rankings in the contest in question and in the graduations to exhaustion referred to in article 1, paragraph 605, letter c), of the law n. 296 of 2006. In this regard, it should be noted that the law has provided that those enrolled in the merit rankings of the 2012 competition, including the eligible ones, have the absolute priority over those enrolled in the finishing rankings. The assumption plan is, among other things, recently completed. All eligible applicants were recruited, except for those enrolled in the children's rankings where the available seats were not sufficient in comparison to the requests. Even in the case of children, however, priority has been given to suitable children.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u9	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, as I said earlier, I am satisfied. I must also say that it does not happen often, because at least in my young experience - alas not political, but parliamentary - this is the first time that I find a full response to the demands that have been represented and presented to the Government. So, I am also satisfied with all those teachers that I had the pleasure and honor to represent through my interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u10	The following are the question 2-00313, with abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Rules of Procedure, and the question 3-02410, on the guarantee of teaching continuity for pupils and students with disabilities. I call Senator Bignami to illustrate the interpretation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u11	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on 10 September, in advance of the beginning of the current school year, I tabled an oral question to the Commission, which, given the importance of the subject, I subsequently turned into an abbreviated question with the support of colleagues from various political groups. The transversality is to be emphasized in this context, and I want to spend a few seconds to mention all those who have asked this question with me: Bignami, Mussini, Orellana, Romani Maurizio, Vacciano, De Petris, De Pietro, Bencini, Simeoni, Petraglia, Arrigoni, Barozzino, Bellot, Bertacco, Bisinella, Campanella, Carraro, Casaletto, Cervellini, De Cristofaro, Di Maggio, Fucksia, Gambaro, Girotto, Idem, Mineo, Minzolini, Munerato, Pepe, Razzi, Ruta, Scavone, Tocci, Uras, Battista, Bocchino and Pelino. This is because it is important to understand that these are questions that everyone wants to answer. The theme is the failure of teachers to support disabled students from the first day of school. In fact, this school year, as I feared, has opened up with many chairs for the support uncovered, with obvious inconveniences for children and children, but also for parents, forced to leave work to provide assistance to their children. This is something that has been happening not since last year but for years, I have been able to say for 14 years personally. Although registrations for the new school year are made by January - so from January you know all the numbers - every year in September the MIUR is found to be free of support teachers. Once again, the right to education of disabled students, affirmed by the Constitution, has been undermined and the provisions of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by the Italian Parliament under Law No 18 of 2009 have been disregarded. The problem of non-assignment of support teachers from the first day of school is compounded by another equally serious one, namely the transfer of support teachers during the current school year, or from one school year to another, due to appointments subsequently made, and certainly for teachers and teachers themselves most desirable because they are paid not until June, but until the end of August. Therefore, it is our laws that create these migrations between November and January of the following year; if we paid them all in the same way, one could choose whether or not to abandon the boy with whom he has already established a relationship and a relationship. But no; we say to him: I send you closer, I pay you two more months: it is clear that there is no one who stays with the boy and who chooses what is most disadvantageous for himself. I think that's obvious. This is not without consequences for those more fragile children and young people who experience the discomfort of having to adapt each time to a different educational method, because each teacher introduces an approach and a methodology of communication and, at the time of arrival another, stops first of all all the work that has been done before, and in addition there is to introduce the work of another person. Too bad the subject is always the same and is the most fragile. The latter must be adapted every time to a different educational method and not in many cases it can rely on specialized support teachers. The majority of those who are there, in fact, are not even specialized, they do not even have the experience. I have a case of a boy who has changed in a year thirteen teachers of support. I wonder: is it possible that this young man had thirteen teachers to support him? For the State it was not a saving, it was not for anyone; it is a State that generates suffering. We do not talk about the support teacher with the gift of ubiquity (and not of obliquity as one of my colleagues said smiling), who must be one minute in one institution and the next in another, perhaps with two seriously disabled children. Having been aware of these issues for years, I have tabled an amendment to the draft good school law, which has been approved in the House of Deputies, which introduces the principle of teaching continuity. The Government, having accepted this amendment, will now have to incorporate the principle of teaching continuity - I hope so - in the measure on the support it is preparing to launch. I should like to stress that the questioning we are discussing is not an isolated act, but follows on from other questions that I have already put to the Minister of Education and to which I have only received evasive and partial answers. I'm asking for numbers not because, as a physicist, I play with numbers, but because the numbers talk if they're significant. The questions I have asked are precise; it is from last year that I ask that the data relating to the required hours of support and to those actually granted, divided by school, by Province and by Region, be made public. These numbers give me the opportunity to calculate regional and provincial efficiency and also the level of study (elementary, medium or higher, because they are three different areas and managed differently). This I can only do if you give me the famous numbers I've been asking for for a year and a half. Last year, a similar oral question to the Senate Education Commission was answered very evasively by the Undersecretary Toccafondi, which provided the total number of pupils with disabilities and the number of places of support covered by role-playing staff. However, I have not been given the percentage of hours covered in relation to the total required and which is the right of disabled pupils, nor which regions and provinces are less efficient. If I do not have full data on what has been requested and what has been given, I cannot calculate efficiency. It's a very simple thing: if you tell me how many support teachers you pay, you're not answering me, because I'm asking for something else and the precise questions are answered. Today we hope to have an efficient response and, in order to demonstrate my good faith in your availability, I once again list some of the problems and possible solutions, sure that you will read bill No. 1848, at my first signature, which in a very simple and at very little cost could finally solve most of the problems: a teacher from the first day of school and always the same throughout the year and for all the hours provided by the neuropsychiatrist. In fact, the hours are not decided by the parents, but by an expert neuropsychiatric, who studied for this. It is therefore a question of carrying out the same selection procedure, exactly as we do now, anticipating it by three months. It is very simple: in January I have the data and, instead of doing what you are doing now, you do it in mid-August and September, on the first day of school, everyone has their teacher. In addition, the possibility of supporting teachers for those who have neither specific training nor experience should be eliminated. You would avoid having professors of English who are fifty years old, who have always taught English and who have never done an hour of support and have no idea what a mental retardation or a behavior disorder is; or masters with four masters and five degrees who have no idea how to make a change. I repeat this concept because it is fundamental: support is not a placement, but it is more than the teacher, it is more than the professor. He's not a tutor, and I hope he won't be. Waiting for training (rebadisco: we train people and follow the training process), you can use educators who are already paid a third compared to teachers. These people, in fact, who work continuously and are under paid, are much more trained and care for the kids ever since. The figure of the professional educator will also be recognized in the school. In fact, we have these figures who enter schools that are not given a penny, otherwise, recognizing them, they should be paid. Support must be provided on the basis of different disabilities. Teaching an autistic boy, a visually impaired boy, a boy with Down's syndrome or a boy with mental retardation marks the same distance as teaching ancient Greek and hygiene. But ancient Greek we do not teach it by those who teach hygiene nor vice versa, while here we gladly do not introduce distinctions. I should like to conclude by recalling that today is 3 December. On 3 December 1981 the International Day of People with Disabilities was established by the United Nations and on 3 December 1993 it was established by the European Commission, in agreement with the UN, the European Day of People with Disabilities, so that on 3 December it would be well to answer these questions. In Italy today - and not forty years ago - 70 percent of the parents of disabled people at school manage as they can, without real help or family support. You help between associations. 75% of people with disabilities who have rights to work, therefore who could work, do not work and 70% of those who work, the remaining, do not have regular contracts or have "contracts," which frustrate the central purpose of all our commitment, which is the existential dignity. These percentages are the obvious consequences of a school that does not work, that is not inclusive and that has to change in substance starting from culture. Now, before I finish the question again: ask whether the Minister in address does not think it appropriate to make public the data relating to the required hours of support and those granted to students and disabled pupils in Italian schools of every order and grade, dividing the data by Region and Province. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government may answer the question and the question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u12	Mr President, first of all it is necessary to point out that the school year 2015-2016, for the combined provision of Article 15 (2) of Decree-Law No 104 of 2013, which establishes the restoration of the organic allocation of support staff to the extent foreseen in the school year 2006-2007, and of Law No 107 of 2015, which introduced the functional staff also for the support, recorded an overall increase of the organic allocation of right of 8.895 support posts, provided for by the aforementioned Decree-Law No 104 of 2013, plus 6.446 posts, provided for by Law No 107 of 2015. In total, therefore, for this school year, there are 15,341 more legal staff. To these are added the places by way of derogation that each regional school office, according to the actual needs, has authorized pursuant to article 1, paragraph 605, letter b), of the law n. 296 of 2006. In the light of the above data and given that the number of disabled pupils, according to the data updated at the end of September, has increased compared to last year by 1,965, the overall increase in support places is absolutely significant. In any case, in order to improve the integration of these students more and more, it is evident that the law n. 107 of 2015, previewed, to paragraph 181, a principle of delegation that has as its primary objective the promotion of the scholastic inclusion of students with disabilities and the guarantee of the continuity of teaching. This objective is to be pursued through the revision of the criteria for inclusion in the roles for teaching support in order to ensure continuity of the right to study of pupils with disabilities, in order to make it possible for the student to benefit from the same support teacher for the entire order or degree of education, as well as through the revision of the procedures and criteria related to certification, which must be aimed at identifying the remaining skills in order to be able to develop them through routes identified in agreement with all specialists of public, private or affiliated structures following the recognized disabled pupils. In this connection, the specific question put by the honourable Member, who asks to know the data relating to the hours of support required and those granted to students and pupils with disabilities in Italian schools of every order and grade, by dividing the data by Region and Province, specifies the following. First of all, it is stressed that the hours of support for each pupil with a functional diagnosis are determined by the disability working group of each school on the basis of the same diagnosis. The proposal is then forwarded to the provincial working group, which sets out the hours for each school institution as a whole. This procedure determines the legal staff of the individual schools. The diagnosis made after the end of the registrations (from March onwards) is attributed, through the above described path, to an additional hourly allocation for the individual educational institutions which determines the so-called de facto staff. It should also be noted that, pursuant to the well-known judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 80 of 2010, in defining these additional hours, the directors-general of the regional school offices can also act outside the limits established annually for the containment of the organic endowments of the teaching staff, decreeing the so-called derogations, pursuant to article 35, paragraph 7, of law n. 289 of 2002 and article 1, paragraph 605, letter b), of law n. 296 of 2006. At this point it is necessary to specify that, on the basis of the data collected by the computerized system of the MIUR, the Ministry determines, taking into account the hours required by the schools and validated by the provincial school offices, the places relating them to twenty-five hours for the childhood, twenty-four hours for the primary, eighteen hours for the secondary. Therefore, the MIUR has only the sum of the places, which, multiplied by the hours of service of the teachers of the various school orders, gives the total hours. You cannot centrally detect the actual support time allocated to each individual student and pupil. However, it should be remembered that the staff of the support posts is determined within the limit provided for in Article 2, paragraphs 413 and 414 second period, of Law No 244 of 2007 and subsequent amendments and Article 15, paragraph 2-a, of Decree-Law No 104 of 2013, without prejudice, as mentioned above, to the possibility of setting up posts by way of derogation. This regulatory provision has been reiterated by Article 1, paragraph 75, of Law No 107 of 2015. The combination of the above-mentioned rules provides for the report of one teacher of support for each of the two disabled pupils. In conclusion, therefore, according to the above judgment of the Constitutional Court, the regional school offices are exempted from supporting teachers in full coverage of the hours required by the disability working groups. For the completeness of information, the data available to this Ministry on the number of pupils and the classes/posts in fact for the school year 2015/2016 are deposited. I am referring to a series of tables relating to nursery school, primary school, first grade secondary school, second grade secondary school and a summary table of all grades of school. As the senator will notice, the data shown in the tables are divided by Region. Surely, as you can see, we think that continuity and quality, as training and experience, are very important; we are aware of their great importance and we will work in this direction, with the help of Parliament, for what you, Senator, have called the dignity, in our opinion, of the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u15	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr Undersecretary, thank you for your reply and I will analyse the data you have made available, but at the footprint, if I understood correctly, you say there is, on average, one teacher of support for every two young people. So if a teacher has an 18-hour chair, you implicitly tell me that every disabled boy has nine hours of cover. So, compared to 18 hours for secondary school, 24 hours for primary school and 25 hours for primary school, I'd say we're very far away and we're saying what I suspected. Therefore, in this sense, I am satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u16	Following is the question 3-01566 on the abolition of the provincial school office in Rovigo. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u17	Mr President, with the parliamentary act under discussion, the questioners represent the need not to close down the territorial area of Rovigo, in view of both the role played by this structure as a reference point for the territory and the inconveniences that would result for users. As an alternative, they hope that the aforementioned territorial area will be maintained in its current articulation, even with the custody in regency to a managing owner of other provincial office. In this regard, it is represented that the organization of the regional school office for Veneto was defined by ministerial decree of 18 December 2014. This decree follows the regulation of reorganization of the MIUR of 11 February 2014 and the Ministerial Decree of 26 September 2014, which defined the non-general management offices of the Ministry's central administration. Article 8 of that Regulation laid down for each regional school office the number of non-general management offices which could be maintained, leading to a significant reduction at national level. With regard to Veneto, which was previously divided into thirteen offices (of which six in the regional direction and seven in the territory, one for each Province), the regulation provided for eight non-general management offices, as well as nine management positions for the performance of the technical and inspection functions. These stocks have been determined taking into account the overall organic endowments of the management staff of the MIUR. This place, the aforementioned ministerial decree 18 December 2014 has previewed that the regional school office for the Veneto is article for functions in three managerial offices belonging to the regional structure, one of which also carries out the tasks assigned to the territorial scope for the Province of Venice, and in five offices on a provincial basis. This circumstance has made necessary the amalgamation of the territories of the Provinces of Padua and Rovigo in a single territorial context, which carries out the functions listed in the third paragraph of Article 8 of the Regulation and the others provided for by the current legislation. It was not possible to adopt alternative solutions because, if not, this would have involved further amalgamations of the offices at regional level, already reduced from six to three, also having to take into account that the office I, as already mentioned, are also assigned the tasks of the former territorial area of Venice. In setting up the regional school office, however, account has been taken of the needs expressed by the questioners. In fact, the aforementioned ministerial decree of 18 December 2014 established that the office V, competent for the Provinces of Padua and Rovigo, is articles in two locations, located in each of the two capital municipalities. The only consequence of the operation, therefore, lies in the fact that the two territorial areas have one leader in common. This place, has not in fact determined the suppression of the territorial office of Rovigo, which continues to carry out in the same Province the functions of competence. It is therefore guaranteed the maintenance of the service on the territory and the staff of the school continues to refer to the office already functioning, without any need to go to the headquarters of Padua.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u20	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, unlike before, I find myself somewhat dissatisfied with the answer and will explain the reasons for it later. First of all, I would like to put to you a reflection that often eludes itself, starting from a concept purely of convenience, which would be worthwhile if public spending were cut and services optimized. When, as in this case, it has not been spared on expenditure and the services have not been optimized, on the contrary, it has happened anything else, we must note that we have gone against the demands of a territory such as Polesine, a weak, fragile and in some complex aspects. In fact, for those who do not know, we speak of a Province whose territory is 135 kilometers long, narrow between the two largest rivers in Italy, with peculiarities that, from the so-called high Polesine to the low Polesine, are totally different and complex, and where the fact of having the provincial school office in that of Rovigo represented a reference to respond to all the instances of citizens, the teaching body and the managers. I shall read briefly my statement where, I repeat, I am not satisfied with the reply of the Undersecretary, and therefore the Minister, for reasons of method and merit. First of all, someone - and I am also deliberately repeating myself - should explain to us how useful it is to receive today the reply to an urgent question that I tabled almost a year ago and to which, as a rule, the Government is obliged to give an answer within one day. It's been a year. Well, congratulations! It is clear that the ratio of this regulatory institution is completely and severely disregarded and personally, I am also pleased because I have just been a Member of Parliament for a year while I have colleagues who have been complaining about questions that have not been answered since March 2013 (which, for goodness sake, is not a justification). I would also like to point out that, unfortunately, this is not an isolated episode due to a contingent lack by the Commission, but we are faced with a structural problem of lack of transparency in the relationship between the Government and Parliament, which has been dragging for too many months now, for years. A problem that I have already denounced several times - and note with what insistence I repeat myself, and not because I am loathsome and intervening in this House, is presenting several acts of inspection union. The question we are dealing with today is yet another example of this worrying trend: according to the Government, MPs and senators could obviously wait months, years, before being informed of what the Ministry of Education intended to do with the fundamental issue of the organization and management of education in our territories. Turning briefly to the substance of the matter, I recall that the problem of the fate of the provincial school office in Rovigo had been raised cross-cuttingly by parliamentarians from other political forces as well. These MPs and senators had gathered with me the concerns of citizenship and the alarm that came also from the mayors of those territories. The Ministry not only did not respond promptly to the requests made by the representatives of the people, but did not provide any news even once it took decisions on the reorder, of which it was asked to receive official information. Thus, in April 2015, we took note of the new organisation of the regional school office for Veneto, which, as we feared, has actually been penalising for the structures of Rovigo. It has been noted that the reorganization concerned the transfer to other tasks of the manager of the office of Rovigo, framing the latter in the new office V, that is, territorial office for the Provinces of Padua and Rovigo. This means that, if it is true that fortunately the structure and the employees remained in Rovigo, the figure of the new manager was in fact merged to the offices of Padua. In other words, the delicate and particular choices concerning Polesine are taken in other locations and by leaders who cannot know the peculiarities of this territory as it was possible to do for a local direction, as it was before the reform. We are sure that the new office V summarizes the competent and necessary professionalism to manage the school events of the area. But, in order to protect and enhance the specifics and characteristics of Polesine, it would have been more appropriate to keep on the spot also the guidance of the school offices. Finally, I would like to stress that Rovigo is the only province penalized in the Veneto Region by this reorganization of the territorial school offices. And all this has been carried out in the name of achieving spending savings. Now, I wonder, how much public money have we saved by simply transferring an executive to another office? And, on the other hand, can such supposed savings compensate for the negative consequences on the management of school affairs that have come to be created? For the reasons briefly set out, I renew my criticism of this late and unsatisfactory reply from the Minister and therefore yours, Mrs Undersecretary. Finally, I would like to take you to a simple reflection: you think that the distance between the last country of the Province and Padua is about 120 kilometers. I think I am making a pertinent example, Mrs Undersecretary, saying that it is almost as if you were going from Bari to Brindisi or, better, from Foggia to Brindisi. It is a distance of 250 kilometers as in the case of a trip and return between the village of the province of Rovigo and Padua (120 kilometers and 120 kilometers).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u21	The following is the question 2-00299 on the presence of the cultural circle "Mario Mieli" within the working group set up at the UNAR. I call Senator Malan to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u22	Mr. Undersecretary, we presented this interrogation on August 5th. The first signature is of Senator Giovanardi, the second is mine, the third is of Senator Gasparri, who presides the House at this time, and the fourth is of Senator Formigoni. The UNAR, the Office for the Promotion of Equal Treatment and the Removal of Discrimination on the grounds of Race and Ethnic Origin, known as the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office, has for some time been dealing with LGBT people. This Office, as it writes several times in its documents, operates using a national working group, appointed by directorial decree of 20 November 2012, consisting of 29 associations that group homosexual people. Among these is the homosexual cultural circle "Mario Mieli" (Mario Mieli). The UNAR, among other things, has drawn up a document entitled "National strategy for preventing and combating discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity (2013-2015) " on which I have submitted several questions that have never been answered. The document is published on the website of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, under the aegis of the Department for Equal Opportunities. This Strategy has been enriched by various other documents that are all on the same line. The text of the Strategy states that the 29 associations, including the circle of homosexual culture "Mario Mieli" participated in the process of defining the strategy and that consultation of the LGBT associations, which played an active and proactive role, was valuable. I am quoting words from the document of the Italian Government that continues: The Associations are among the stakeholders and here I apologise, because obviously it is not known the Italian language in some ministerial areas which are privileged in the elaboration of the Strategy as a whole, both in the identification of the objectives and in the forecast of positive actions to be carried out. In other words, these associations, including the Mario Mieli Club, played a decisive role in defining strategies. As part of these strategies, Section 4.1 of Chapter 4 is entitled "Axis education and education" and therefore covers students, young people and children, who attend schools. Among the measures to be implemented is the accreditation of LGBT associations at the Ministry of University and Scientific Research as training bodies and the development of expertise back this foreign language of the LGBT associations on the training and awareness-raising of teachers, students and families. I note, in passing, that, according to the Constitution, it is the families that have the right and the duty to deal primarily with the education of children: here, instead, we have the LGBT associations that are placed above families, teachers and of course students. Well, we come to the circle of homosexual culture named after Mario Mieli, who died of suicide in the 1970s. In 1977 he wrote his main and almost unique work "Elementi di critica homosexuale" (Elementi di critica homosexuale). Many people know one of the best known phrases in this book, which I will quote with some embarrassment. He wrote Mr. Mario Mieli, on whose behalf this circle of homosexual culture was named, which is one of the privileged interlocutors of the Italian Government to determine how to educate children in schools in sexuality: We, yes, can love children. We can desire them erotically in response to their desire for Eros, we can grasp with face and open arms the intoxicating sensuality that deepen, we can make love with them. For this reason pederastia is so strongly condemned: it addresses loving messages to the child that society instead, through the family, traumatizes, educates, denies, lowering on its eroticism the oedipal grid. (...) The pederastia, on the other hand, "is an arrow of libido hurled towards the fetus." This sentence, which has been quoted several times, even less than it would deserve, one might think it is out of context: in reality, it is the entire book of Mieli that goes in this direction and this is almost the centerpiece of Mario Mieli's book, which goes in this direction. According to this "studious," in essence, the key to the healthy education of an individual is to start him from birth to eroticism with adults, with preference for those of the same sex, to avoid - already said the phrase I read - that the child is traumatized and his personality limited by taboos and social conventions. The author Mario Mieli stigmatizes the fact that the father, in the general sense of "the fathers," rejects erotic contacts opened with the son (who instead wants "undifferentily" and therefore wishes - sexually - even the father), as well as the other adult males, by virtue of the antipederastia taboo, refuse sexual relations with the child. These are the people who adversely cite Mario Mieli. According to Mieli, the attraction of males towards women is due to the fact that they embody that femininity that men have denied in themselves, and the relationship of the child with the mother, being repressed by the prohibition of pederastia, leaves a negative trace in the (erotic) life of each of them, so it would be better for children to have sexual relations with their mothers, as well as primarily with fathers. Heterosexuality continues Mario Mieli is essentially reactionary because (...) Perpetuating the phallocrate male, that prototype of Fascist male.......................................................................................... Heterosexual love is the negation of women. The "friend of the heart" of childhood and adolescence is actually "object" of desire in the broad sense and therefore (also) sexual. They are always words of the basically unique work of Mario Mieli. Then of course the family does not escape, which is seen in a totally negative way. Speaking of religion, Mario Mieli writes: The love for God and the fear of God are the neurotic result of a love for parents censored by the taboo of the incest and the anti-homosexual (...). Therefore, religion is the result of a mental illness generated by the fact that the child does not have sexual relations with the parents, which would instead be desirable should have, according to this individual. To avoid misunderstandings, to clarify, if need be, that his words concerning these practices are not theoretical, are not intellectual provocations, but are an exhortation to practice, in the summary conclusions of the entire content of the book, Mario Mieli writes: The liberation of Eros and the emancipation of mankind necessarily pass through the liberation of homoerotism that includes... the concrete expression of the homoerotic component of desire by all human beings. The worst, however, comes after: "We cannot" writes Mieli "rafffigure ourselves the importance of the contribution provided to the revolution and human emancipation from the progressive liberation of sadism," "These are the things that should be promoted to guarantee human emancipation - "Masochism," "Pederastia proper," "Gerontophilia," "necrophilia," "zooerasty," "self-eroticism," "Feticism," "scatology," "urophilia," "exibitionism of voyeurism." That is to say that according to Mario Mieli we cannot fully understand the great benefit of all these practices, some of which openly prohibited by law, not only pederastia, if not personally moving to the disinhibition and concrete expression of such tendencies. It is not enough to say that pederastia is fundamental for the child, but it must also be practiced. We do not know whether Mr. Mario Mieli practiced it or not and all in all, so many years after his death, however self-inflicted, is a secondary fact for the purposes of this question, but he certainly not only exalted its fundamental function in the education of the individual, but he specifically urged us to practice it, regardless of whether he was then up to it, we do it to say, or rather to the baseness of his suggestions (we know that he also publicly practiced coprophagia and other practices of this kind). The questions we are asking in this question, Mr Undersecretary, are the following: why does the Government use a circle that is entitled to an individual whose only contribution - it is said - given to the culture of our country is a work in which these ideas are advocated? Since the Government has intended to make use of the contribution of this association, what are the things that have been transposed, proposed by this association, that must then be brought into the schools and imposed, or at least "suggested" to parents, teachers and children? Finally, we would like to know, Mr Undersecretary, whether the Government does not feel it is necessary to interrupt this cooperation as soon as possible. I would point out that this question was tabled four months ago, and the contribution of this Association has obviously continued over the last four months. Mr Undersecretary, your figure is certainly authoritative and you certainly represent the Government when you are here in this House, but it is curious that the Undersecretary for the Interior comes to answer this question when the question is put to the Presidency of the Council and if anything, in addition to the Presidency of the Council, the Ministry of Education may be involved in which these associations should be accredited in accordance with what a government document wishes. I frankly do not understand much, and I hope that the things you tell us will overcome this little anomaly. It is also honestly shocking to think that no one speaks of this: there was perhaps some article here and there, but the great communication does not speak of an association dedicated to a gentleman, known only, as well as to eat their own excrement in public - and I say quoting the Internet, I do not gossip - for having exalted paedophilia and pederastia, and for having emphasized that children who do not practice it grow badly (and not like him, instead, that it came on well!). I cannot understand how such news, that is, that an association of this kind collaborates with the Government to draw up very important documents, which are then imposed in all the public administration, and not only, also in the schools, and not only the public ones (we know well that with the concept of equal schools there is a collaboration so that private schools also have to accept what they receive from public schools). Well, it is scandalous that we are not talking about this, except for the very few information we are able to obtain by communicating and trying to say it in every circumstance. I also wonder why there has never been a single note from the Government, the Presidency of the Council, the Ministry of Education and the UNAR, explaining why there is no need to be alarmed (freely, in fact, I do not see how there is no alarm). Even the circle "Mario Mieli" didn't think to do anything to explain why the circle was titled to Mario Mieli. It should also be emphasized that many LGBT associations, by party taken, have defended at all costs the circle "Mario Mieli" by saying that the villains are those four senators who presented this interrogation, stating that his statements must all be contextualized because - this is their thesis - Mario Mieli took some positions to respond to the marginalization to which homosexual people were subjected. I personally believe that with those statements he, if anything, contributes to the marginalization of homosexuals, because if you believe him - I don't believe him, but he proved to believe him - the real homosexual must be pedophile and pederast. I repeat, I don't believe it, because I think it's very different. Even some heterosexuals may have tendencies toward children of very young age, but it is quite different from heterosexuality in general, just as homosexuality is different from pedophilia. This gentleman, however, said exactly the opposite, namely that if you don't start right away, then the child will be ruined. Is it possible that this gentleman only found defenses, and only four senators asking for reason for this? Frankly, regardless of what he will tell us - and I hope he will be decisive in some way, Mr. Representative of the Government - I believe that this alone puts the Government really on the wrong side, as well as the UNAR and the circle "Mario Mieli." [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u23	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u24	Mr President, with reference to the question referred to and illustrated in this connection, at the first signature of Senator Giovanardi, with whom some questions concerning the activities of UNAR, the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office, as far as they are competent, have been brought to the attention, the following is to be found. The Office for the Promotion of Equal Treatment and the Removal of Discrimination on the grounds of Race and Ethnic Origin - UNAR - was established by Legislative Decree No 215 of 9 July 2003, with the task of performing autonomously and impartially, promoting equality and removing any form of discrimination on the grounds of racial or ethnic origin. With regard to what the Senators have pointed out in the debate on the alleged enlargement of the UNAR's competences to the LGBT issues, it is stressed, first of all, that UNAR has been set up and operates in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers - Department for Equal Opportunities. This Department, pursuant to Article 16 of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 1 October 2012, which regulates the general structures of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers of 1 October 2012, is the support structure for the President working in the functional area concerning the promotion and coordination of policies of the rights of the person, equal opportunities and equal treatment and actions of government aimed at preventing and removing any form and cause of discrimination. The above functions are carried out by the Department for Equal Opportunities according to the provisions of the Ministerial Decree of 4 December 2012 on the Internal Organisation of the Department for Equal Opportunities, which, in Article 8, assigns to the UNAR the function of ensuring the effectiveness of the principle of equal treatment between persons, also providing that, in close conjunction with the other structures of the Department, the Office prepares proposals for intervention, system actions and methodologies for legal assistance and support to victims of discriminatory behaviors which, with particular reference to race and ethnicity, can be linked to other factors and to the phenomenon of multiple discriminations. In this regard, it should be noted that the Department of Equal Opportunities promotes the implementation of the principles on equal treatment and the removal of discrimination in these areas in compliance with the provisions of specific ministerial directives issued annually to lay down guidelines for administrative action. In particular, the general guidelines for administrative action for the years 2012, 2013 and 2014 assign to UNAR the implementation of relevant operational objectives in the field of preventing and combating discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. In this regard, it should be noted that Italy's commitment to combating discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity was represented by its participation in the programme "Combating discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity" of the Council of Europe for the implementation and implementation of the recommendation of the Committee of Ministers. As far as the experience of our country is concerned, adherence to the Council of Europe's programme was fundamental because it represented the beginning of a long and laborious journey that, with the national LGBT strategy (2013-2015), adopted by ministerial decree of 19 April 2013, gave rise to a plan of integrated and multidisciplinary actions. Based on a pragmatic approach, four policy areas of intervention and the related specific objectives and measures to be put in place to promote equal treatment of LGBT people, such as education and education, work, security and prisons, media and communication, have been identified on the basis of the analysis of the most critical issues. In particular, it highlights the centrality of the education and education axis within the strategy as school is the key agency for preventing and combating discrimination and promoting human rights, as a function of an open and fully inclusive society. The objectives and measures described in the axis of education of the strategy are all aimed at respecting the principle, dictated by the Council of Europe, of the right of children and young people to education in a safe school environment, protected from violence, bullying or social exclusion. It should be noted that the LGBT national strategy has been shared with the central administrations involved in these areas and, among them, the Ministry of Education, in addition to the Ministries of Interior, Justice, Health, Labour, Foreign Affairs, the Conference of Regions, ANCI, as well as with industry associations and the social partners. In particular, with regard to the education and education axis, the circulars of the Ministry of Education of 18 December 2013 and 21 October 2014 addressed to the directors of the Directorates-General of the Departments of MIUR, to the general directors of the regional school offices and to the managers of the provincial territorial areas of information on the activities of awareness and training provided by the national LGBT strategy are noted. In this regard, mention is made of the training activities for the apical figures of the MIUR on the LGBT activities that have been carried out within the framework of the Collaboration Agreement, signed in June 2013, between the Department for Equal Opportunities and the Municipality of Turin. With reference to the document referred to in the text of the questioning and called in the latter "Communicating without prejudice" it should be noted that it is, in fact, the document containing the "Lines guide" for information respectful of LGBT people. These guidelines are born as part of a project funded by the Council of Europe, in implementation of the above-mentioned programme, in which a series of seminars entitled "Pride and prejudices" has been carried out, in collaboration with the National Press Federation and the Order of Journalists. In particular, four seminars were held in October 2013, in Milan, Rome, Naples and Palermo, which saw a wide participation of journalists, bloggers and communication experts. In view of the strong interest aroused by the seminars and laboratories carried out in the project concerned, it was considered appropriate to gather the results and common points that emerged from the debate in a single document that could help anyone wishing to address and learn about the sensitive LGBT issues. The guidelines do not represent a deontological paper but merely a working tool whose purpose is to prevent professional information from stereotyped vehicles and prejudices. In relation to what Mr Senators have pointed out about the development of the national LGBT strategy, it is stressed that it required the necessary cooperation not only of the various institutions involved in these areas, but also of industry associations. To this end, the UNAR, with a directorial decree of 20 November 2012, established the National Working Group (GNL), of which 29 industry associations are members, for the definition and planning of the policies of the national strategy. With reference to the request contained in the questioning concerning the appropriateness of the accreditation of certain of these associations to the MIUR, it should be noted that, as regards one of the measures considered by the national LGBT strategy in the education axis, i.e. the accreditation of LGBT associations to the MIUR, as training bodies, it was in no way intended to provide prescriptive measures, taking into account that the objective of the strategy is mainly to provide guidance and ideas on the issues in question, while respecting the principle of maximum sharing between the central institutions and civil society, as indicated by the Council of Europe. It should be noted that the Ministry of Education, University and Research has exclusive responsibility for the possible accreditation of schools. As regards the cultural circle "Mario Mieli" established in 1983, it is an association specializing in the prevention and fight against discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. This association has been registered since 2012 in the UNAR register, as referred to in Article 6 of Legislative Decree No 215 of 2003, which collects all the associations and bodies that carry out activities in the field of the fight against discrimination, and is part of the 29 LGBT associations that constitute the aforementioned national working group. In this regard it is stressed that, regardless of what Mario Mieli said in some passages of his works (passages that were also recalled by the questioner in his speech and reported in the text of the questioning), the cultural circle has always characterized itself for activity aimed at the affirmation of the protection of civil rights, has never been involved in cases of paedophilia, nor is it found to have supported the lawfulness of practices of this kind. GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Why not? Mr BOCCI, Undersecretary of State for the Interior. In any case, attention is drawn to the fact that the collaboration of the cultural circle in question with UNAR, as well as with any other association, has always been subject to careful scrutiny by the Office, which has therefore maintained its own autonomy of analysis and decision-making. As regards the booklets entitled "Educating diversity at school" ("Educating diversity at school"), referred to in the text of the interview, it is noted that they are the result of the project "Educating diversity at school," commissioned in 2012 by UNAR to a specialization school of psychotherapy, accredited by MIUR even in 2004, with the aim of developing a tool of knowledge and support on the delicate themes of prevention and contrast of homophobia and, above all, bullying. The work, approved by UNAR in July 2013, consists, in fact, of a kit of information and training materials, divided by the three orders of school (primary, secondary of first grade, secondary of second degree) and represents an instrument of support to the activity of the teachers in order to promote the creation of a school climate based on respect and acceptance of differences, as well as the prevention of discrimination and the phenomena of bullying. It should be noted that this material has been designed and made for the teaching staff and has never been released by UNAR in schools, neither published officially nor printed or distributed in schools, since the dissemination of teaching material in the school circuit is the exclusive responsibility of the MIUR. The UNAR authorised only a partial dissemination of the cognitive tools through the body which, upon request, has given scholars and teachers the opportunity to avail themselves of the results of the research. As a result, the news about the spread of the kit in schools by UNAR does not correspond to the truth. With regard to the UNAR's relations with the Ministry of Education, it should be noted that a collaboration agreement is under way, signed in December 2013, following which a national public notice was launched in December 2014 for the financing, with joint resources, of projects against violence and discrimination, aimed mainly at school institutions of every order and grade, with the aim of educating the new generations to the positive value of diversity and the culture of respect for the other.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u27	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Shame, shame, shame, shame, shame, shame! I could use my five minutes infinitely repeating the shame, but not for the poor Undersecretary for the interior, which has nothing to do with it, catapulted here to read us a surreal answer. Shame on a government that covers those who praise paedophilia and pederastia; that covers this unworthy attitude and collaborates with a circle, the "Mario Mieli" (Mario Mieli), which is not only named after a gentleman who wrote these aberrant things, but who writes on his website that the core of the issue of homosexuals is to face, in those years, the dissolution of the heterosexual-homosexual opposition, but above all in the denunciation of the inconsistency of ideological vice behind the principle of monosexuality. Mario Mieli always writes that to this one-sided perspective, unable to grasp the ambivalent and dynamic nature of the sexual dimension, opposed a principle of free, multiple and multiform Eros. In the course of this operation it is absolutely clear how tragically ridiculous the vast majority of people were, in their monstrous uniforms as males or women. Here is the monstrous government, which not only covers pedophilia, pederastia and all the other operations we have heard before, but collaborates with this circle. It would be as if we wanted to fight anti-Semitism and the government was working with the Adolf Hitler circle. It would be as if the Undersecretary were telling us: "Yes, it is named after Adolf Hitler this circle, but its members did not put the Jews in the gas chambers, they merely made an apology for those who put the Jews in the gas chambers. These of the circle "Mario Mieli" do not practice, but are simply titled to a gentleman who praised the sexual relations of his father with his children, of his mother with his children. It would be this circle that inspires the politics of the Italian Government! Undersecretary, they made you say nonsense, because UNAR was censored by Deputy Minister Cecilia Guerra when he distributed the first draft of the booklets in the schools. A formal demerit note has been given to the director of UNAR, Dr. Marco De Giorgi, for the dissemination in the school of material never approved and even never known by the competent bodies to expose its relative authorization. What the demerit note has had is still there, along with the 26-27 associations, to do politics in schools. What was written in those booklets "Educate to diversity in the school," also intended for three-year-olds? That it is the fault of religion (that Catholic above all), the educational role of the Church, the family and society that ruin it by the boys convincing them that there are males and females. While, as Mieli wrote, with the theory of gender everyone should grow... But do you realize what you've come to tell us, Sub-Greek? I say it in the Senate, I say it outside and we'll say it everywhere: you cover pedophilia! You had to say: dear circle "Mario Mieli" or change name or no longer cooperate with the Government. It's scandalous, shameful. It is useless to tear your clothes when the single case of pedophilia occurs, if pedophilia is covered at government level and when you come here to give grotesque, offensive and ridiculous answers. Four pages of bureaucrat who doesn't give an answer to what we've written. That is the second question. In fact, there was another one on a pornographic book presented at a school; even in that question, the presidency of the Senate prevented us from writing in full the theories of Mr. Mario Mieli because it was overly pornographic, as in the other book distributed by the schools, which had also been praised by Minister Giannini. Things that senators can't hear, are those to which we call a circle "Mario Mieli" with which the government collaborates and with which it makes all the strategies, with information in schools also for children of three years. Evidently, according to this government, it is correct that children in our schools are the ones who spread, from the title of their circle, theories of this type. Actually, I should have used the five minutes at my disposal to just say: shame, shame, shame! But we will not stop here, because I would like to know whether this response was written by the President-in-Office of the Council, since the UNAR illegitimately depends on the Presidency of the Council; illegitimately, because the law, which comes from a European directive, concerns race and ethnicity, and not at all LGBT policies, which are hung from an administrative circular. But it's not just the formal aspect here. There's colonization. But what an independent and autonomous body, the UNAR, which should combat racial and ethnic discrimination when the consultants are 26 side associations! But has there ever been an independent and independent body in the school that should combat discrimination and that is made up of 26 associations that all fight on the same side that are all homosexual associations? Among other things, as my colleague Mr Malan rightly said, it is not homosexuals whom we respect, who fight for the discrimination that they can suffer and which we condemn; not normal ones, no, in this association there is a concentration of aberrations and theorizations that damage the same homosexual world because any honest homosexual, in front of these aberrations, can do nothing but scandalize. They are scandalized and the government is not scandalized? Mr. Undersecretary, shame! Of course, we are totally and completely dissatisfied with the answer. [[Applause from Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u28	There follows the questioning 2-00314, by abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Regulation, on the content of a manifesto by the mayor of Borgosesia, in the province of Vercelli. I call Senator Favero to explain this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u29	Mr President, kind Undersecretary, colleagues and colleagues, this abbreviated interrogation refers to an incident in the Municipality of Borgosesia in the province of Vercelli on the occasion of the 97th anniversary of the day of the Armed Forces, the end and the Italian victory in the First World War. The mayor of Borgosesia, Gianluca Buonanno, who is also europarlamentare, according to the news collected and then confirmed, has placed in the municipal streets an official manifesto, celebrating the anniversary to his own signature containing an invitation to citizenship to participate in a rich and articulated program a second part of the manifesto. In the first is written the following message: Ours is a great country, which has made history in the world (...) we certainly have many flaws but also many good qualities. I believe in a better future, but we must fight every day in Valsesia against the continuous government and regional cuts: health, school, post office, chamber of commerce, state transfers to municipalities (...). But the money for the illegals is: 36,40 euros per day, while for example a serious disabled person takes from the State 12 euros per day!!! Is this social justice? Not for me! In the meantime, Renzi buys himself a presidential plane of about 100 million euros as big as that of the President of the United States of America...W ITALY. The text of the manifesto was sent by e-mail to the City Councillors and published on the web page of the digital Praetorian Register, on the page "Manifesti" of the Municipality of Borgosesia. The content of the manifesto, in the opinion of the interviewer and co-signatory colleagues (there are 40, all Piedmontese of the PD have signed it) is a propagandistic and partisan political message, totally inappropriate in relation to both the post of first citizen of the signatory and the celebration he intends to promote. In this regard I recall that, pursuant to Article 50 of Legislative Decree no. 267 of 2000, the mayor is responsible for the municipal administration and in addition to being the body of the municipality, he is a local body of the State and, pursuant to Article 54, oversees the exercise of certain functions as an official of the Government in compliance with the guidelines that the Ministry of the Interior can adopt in this field. Finally, according to article 78, paragraph 1, it is expected that the behaviour of directors, in the performance of their duties, must be based on impartiality and the principle of good administration, in full respect of the distinction between functions, competences and responsibilities. It is therefore considered that the conduct of the mayor of Borgosesia has undermined the principles of impartiality and good administration, probably by committing public money to this purpose. In conclusion, with the present act of inspection union it is asked to know: whether the Minister in address is aware of the facts represented and what the related assessments are; whether public money has been used for the realization and dissemination of the manifesto and in what amount; whether he believes that he must intervene, with acts of his own competence, so that the celebration of 4 November, an occasion of memory and recognition in the values of institutions and national unity, in the Municipality of Borgosesia is recovered to its authentic meaning. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the interrogation on the agenda, Senator Favero, together with other senators, complains about the inappropriate and contrary to the duties of impartiality and good administration held by the mayor of Borgosesia on the occasion of the recurrence of 4 November. In this regard, it is represented that, in the imminence of this event, Mayor Gianluca Buonanno communicated to the Bourgosesian citizenship the celebration initiatives of the 97th anniversary of the victory through the posting of special posters containing also considerations of a polemic nature towards government policy, not consistent with the institutional spirit of the day dedicated to National Unity and the Armed Forces. Manifests of identical connotation were posted in the neighbouring city of Varallo jointly signed by Mayor Eraldo Botta and Gianluca Buonanno himself, in this case in his capacity as prosindac of that Municipality. The Prefect of Vercelli, in view of the importance of the problem, considered it appropriate to take action to prevent it from having any controversy during the planned celebrations. He then formally drew the attention of the two mayors to the need for the celebrations of November 4 to maintain the authentic meaning of a historical anniversary, in which through the active presence and participation of the territorial institutions, we witness and share the common values and sentiments of our country. The two mayors took the prefect's appeal responsibly. And, in fact, the planned events took place, both in the city of Borgosesia and Varallo, in full harmony with the institutional and authentic spirit of the anniversary. This is the reconstruction of the facts, commenting on which I just want to express sharing for the work of the prefect and appreciation for the sense of responsibility at the end demonstrated. On 4 November there must remain a moment of commemoration, and gratitude for the fallen in war, an occasion of renewed national cohesion, an explicit testimony of the close bond between the country and its military component. I believe that the nobility of these issues should not be affected by political issues of a divisive nature, which can find elsewhere their natural place of analysis and debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u33	FAVERO (PD). Mr Secretary, I would like to thank you for your answer, which I am partially satisfied with, because my second request has been completely unfulfilled. It asked whether public money was used and in what amount for the realization and dissemination of the manifesto. For this reason, I will ask for access to the documents. I wanted to add two comments. Frankly, I had telephoned Prefect Malfi, warning him of my interrogation, and he had immediately activated himself. Therefore, I also thank him from this post. Mr. Undersecretary, I have been taught that, when a mistake is made, you usually apologize to all the people, who have been involved, with posters, leaflets and advertising and propaganda material. In fact, you could also cover a part of the manifesto, at least what I consider propagandistic. This, perhaps, could have partially alleviated the offense brought about in this situation. In fact, if the mayor is the centerpiece, the reference of a community, from which he was also elected, as the first citizen must represent precisely all, the whole citizenship. Moreover, when it oversees certain special functions - and this is so, being a commemoration in which we remember national unity, the Feast of the Armed Forces, the victory of Italy in the First World War - it must bear in mind that it is a celebration that unites the community, an occasion of memories, recognition, therefore far from controversy, propaganda and divisions. Finally, even in propaganda, which I think in the first part of the manifesto, reality is mixed because data and figures are provided without reading them. This is doubly serious, especially on the part of those who, on a very important day such as 4 November, which is an occasion when we all recognize ourselves or should recognize ourselves, should promote unity and cohesion. That is why I am partially satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u34	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-549.ana.u35	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 9 December, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.42 p.m.
