ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 22 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.07).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1977. The reporters, Senators Zanoni and Chiavaroli, have requested authorization to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Zanoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u9	Mr President, senators and senators, today we are called to convert a decree-law much awaited by the local authorities, for the consequences indispensable to the preparation of the 2015 forecast budget. Beyond the issues of merit, which will soon be discussed, the rapporteurs want to express a positive assessment of the path and the work carried out over the past few weeks. This method of working has allowed everyone to express themselves, to understand the scope of the measure and to confront themselves within the parliamentary groups and among the groups themselves in a constructive way and without preconceived positions, with the will on the part of everyone - whom we thank - to reach a mandate to the rapporteurs. The debate on the substance and the presentation of similar or very similar amendments by all the Groups, which collected the requests gathered in the hearings, facilitated the submission of amendments to the House signed by the Commission. As far as the majority are concerned, the comparison also covered part of the House's colleagues and their demands were also collected, given the limited time for the definitive conversion of the decree-law. All this with the support, always available and competent, of the government offices and Senate, who did the small hours with us. The representatives of the ANCI, the IPO, the Regions and the trade unions have been audited. The work in the Commission, in close contact with the Government, has made significant changes and implementations, in many cases shared by all the Groups, which led to the vote on the most significant amendments unanimously. About a thousand amendments by the senators, about twenty amendments by the government and about two hundred sub-amendments have been evaluated, not to mention the redrafting of the texts. As always, more could have been done. Some serious problems posed by senators, but also by the government, have not been solved, most of the time for technical reasons or lack of coverage. Just to give a few examples: the precarious people of the Calabria region, the ARPA of Puglia, the European school of Parma, the problems of Molise. But the debate that has taken place will bear fruit in the next steps, first and foremost in the law of stability. Let us now come to the content. The measure transposes: the agreement established in the State-City Conference and local autonomy of 19 February. The municipalities have expressed a positive opinion emphasizing that the measure marks a qualitative leap in the attention of the Government towards the Municipalities and allows the improvement of the regulatory and financial framework within which the Municipalities are called to operate. However, on matters left out of the measure, local authorities have called for the continuation of dialogue and the method used to arrive in the coming months at the effective overcoming of the Stability Pact, the adjustment of own resources for metropolitan cities and the approach of the new local tax. The measure also incorporates the understanding of the State-Regions Conference of 26 February and, with an amendment of the Government, the State-Regions understanding on urgent measures for rationalization and efficiency of the Health Service. In addition to the transposition of these arrangements, the text fired by the Government pursues the following priority objectives: to plan the financial activity for the current year and to prepare quickly the financial budget for the year 2015; to provide for the allocation of financial spaces and the anticipation of resources in favour of the local authorities pending the definition of the Municipal Solidarity Fund and the payment of local taxes, as well as the allocation of additional resources to the municipalities, also in order to allow expenditure for specific purposes, such as the clean-up of asbestos from school buildings and the territory. Among the objectives, we have to allow Metropolitan Cities, Provinces and Municipalities to renegotiate loans and to remodulate the multi-annual plan of equilibrium; to specify and ensure the contribution to public finance by local authorities as well as by agreements; finally, to continue in the interventions of payment of past debts of regions and local authorities accrued towards enterprises. Also in the priority objectives set by the Government there is to address and resolve the problems related to the personnel of the provinces made redundant and not essential for the performance of the fundamental functions; to overcome the blockage of the recruitments provided for the public administrations, precisely to allow a smoother placement of the personnel of the provinces and to guarantee the municipal services. This - on paper - seems a trivial problem: in fact, since it concerns the relocation of 20,000 people - who are really many - each of whom has family problems behind him, his professional stories and everything else, it is really an important commitment. Among the priority commitments there is also to continue in the interventions in favor of the territorial areas affected by seismic events (in 2009 in Abruzzo and in 2012 in Emilia-Romagna and in Lombardy); from alluvial events (in 2013 in Sardinia), as well as the recent air trumpet in Veneto. Here too, the Commission has repeatedly stressed - as Senator Chiavaroli will also repeat after me - the need for action on these issues, which is probably now an integral part of the process. Moreover, among the novelties, to extend to 30 September the entry into force of the safeguard clause, previewed from the law of stability 2015 to cover the measures of reverse charge, that previews the increase of the excises on the fuels (also this is an extended maneuver to which it is hoped that to succeed to put a patch); favor the operation of the National Angraphe of the resident population and the start of the electronic identity card; to preview measures aimed to the sustainability of the start to regime of the accounting harmonization. I would like to remind everyone that accounting harmonisation has been a great reform, of those with less media impact, because it is clear that citizens do not directly understand the meaning of this process, but it is a great reform that allows us to be, from the accounting point of view, fully within the European rules. Finally, to promote the strengthening of employment services. This applies to the whole part of the basic text. The work of the Commission in the Senate, in agreement with the Government, has significantly implemented and modified the original text; first, by covering the substantial lack of rules on the Provinces and the metropolitan cities, providing, in parallel, the shift of the date for the approval of the budgets to 30 September, as agreed at the State-City Conference. What happened? The process of transformation of the Provinces, the delay in regional laws that must define the functions and the start of a new entity such as the Metropolitan Cities have been noted; therefore 2015 has been defined as an extraordinary, transitional year, and it has been decided that in order to allow the approval of balanced budgets, measures of absolute extraordinaryness were necessary, such as the drawing up of the budget only for the year 2015 and not the drawing up of the multiannual budget, going against a fundamental principle of accounting, but that it is necessary precisely for the extraordinaryness of 2015, waiting for the revision of the functions and above all to understand what can be not only the expenses but also the necessities and needs of the population in relation to the vast areas. In addition, some new features have been included, such as the possibility of using the surplus already allocated in the budget phase (this is always for metropolitan cities and provinces); the reduction of sanctions, for entities that did not comply with the Stability Pact in 2014, from three to two percent (it seems little, but it means releasing resources for almost 60 million euros). The obligation to pay 10% of the income from real estate sales to the State has been eliminated in analogy with what was foreseen for the municipalities: this was clearly a sort of oversight of the basic text which provided for this exemption for the municipalities and not also for the other entities. Finally, the possibility for failing institutions to envisage a four-year return plan instead of the previous three years. This, too, allows the institutions in anticipation to have a longer time ahead of them to settle. Many other rules and novelties are contained in the measure and we will now go into detail on the description of the individual articles. I will give the offices the full text of my speech in order to give a more precise indication, now focusing only on a few elements. In particular, one of the most significant parts is the overall rewording of Article 5, which saw a complete rewriting in the Commission signed by the rapporteurs. Article 5 provides for the transit of the staff of the provincial police, which will not enter exclusively the roles of the municipal police, as provided for in the original article. In fact, it is expected that the regional laws will re-allocate the functions of local administrative police and the relative staff in the context of the processes of reorganization of the provincial functions. Therefore, large-area entities and metropolitan cities will identify the provincial police personnel necessary for the exercise of their fundamental functions and that not identified or not relocated may, on a voluntary basis, be transferred to municipalities, individuals or associates by 31 October 2015. On this, too, it seems that a solution has been found which has agreed on all the requests. After Article 5, an additional article was introduced which transposes the provisions concerning the extension of the employment of military personnel belonging to the Armed Forces, already contained in Decree-Law No 85 of 1 July 2015, the so-called Safe Roads, which is consequently repealed. A number of further amendments to the text have been approved in the Commission, but since the description is very technical, I refer you to the full text of the intervention which I have requested to submit to the documents. In thanking the rapporteur, Mrs Chiavaroli, who has undertaken this work with me over the past three weeks, I would like to stress that we have worked very well together and I gladly give her the floor. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u10	Senator Zanoni, the Presidency authorizes you to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u11	I call the rapporteur, Senator Chiavaroli.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u12	Mr President, I agree with what Mr Zanoni said in general terms. I will deal with the articles from 11 until the end of the text. Articles 11, 12 and 13 deal with calamitous events. In particular, Article 11 deals with reconstruction following the earthquake in Abruzzo on 6 April 2009. Article 12 deals with the territories of Emilia affected by the flood of 17 January 2014 and those of the earthquake of 2012 and establishes for them an urban free zone. Article 13 lays down provisions in relation to seismic events that occurred in May 2012 in the territories of Lombardy and Emilia-Romagna. The Commission has long discussed these three articles and, in particular, the need, no longer extendable, for clear and uniform rules to be applied, in the case of calamitous events, so as not to leave the weaker territories less protected than those that manage to have a stronger intercourse with the Government. Some changes have therefore been made which make the three articles more effective. In particular, with regard to Article 11, the Commission, with the contribution of all the Groups, has worked to increase the effectiveness of the article in terms of transparency and prevention of malavitous conduct, amending the first paragraph. Therefore, all contracts between private individuals will be null if not signed in writing and containing some documents including SOA certification and anti-mafia certification. In this respect, the role of control of the Prefectures has also been strengthened. Other changes have been introduced in order to meet the requirements of transparency with the need for the reconstruction to proceed expeditiously. Article 12 has been rewritten in the Commission to better specify its scope, without prejudice to the resources allocated for the establishment of urban free zones, amounting to EUR 20 million for each of the years 2015 and 2016. In Article 13, as regards the earthquake of 20 and 29 May 2012, the state of emergency was extended to 31 December 2016. Finally, €5 million was allocated to Sardinia, to establish the urban free zone of Olbia, following the flood events of 8 November 2013. As far as the remaining articles are concerned, Article 14 moves to 30 September 2015 the deadline, foreseen at 30 June last by the single article, paragraph 632, of the Stability Act for 2015, for the eventual increase of the rate of excise duty on fuels to such an extent as to result in higher net revenues not less than 1,716 million euros from the current year. Article 15 concerns the functioning of employment services and related administrative functions related to active labour policies. An agreement between the Government, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces is expected to be concluded on a plan to strengthen employment services for the purpose of the delivery of active policies through the coordinated use of national and regional funds, as well as the resources of operational programmes co-financed by European funds. Two important changes have been made to this article: the first by implementing an amendment by the Government that increases state resources from 70 million euros to 90 million euros; the second by the Commission which, in order to make these resources usable by the Provinces and metropolitan cities for the financing of employment centres and active labour policies, authorizes them to enter into fixed-term contracts with a maturity not later than 31 December 2016. Article 16 provides for the possibility, for contracting authorities of tendering procedures for the granting of cultural assistance and hospitality services for the public (referred to in Article 117 of the Code of Cultural Heritage and Landscape), to avail, on the basis of special conventions for the discipline of the relative relationships, of Consip SpA also as a central purchasing body for the conduct of the aforementioned procedures. Finally, Article 17 authorizes the Ministry of Economy and Finance to make, with its own decrees, the necessary changes in the budget and to arrange the use of treasury advances for the immediate implementation of the provisions of the decree-law. Finally, an important amendment was approved for extraordinary recruitment in the Police Forces and the National Firefighters Corps. In particular, 1,050 units for the State Police, as many as for the Carabinieri's weapon, 400 units for the Finance Guard Corps and 250 units for the National Corps of Firefighters. This is the content of the remaining articles. Allow me, Mr President, to thank all my colleagues in the Committee on Budgets and, in particular, Mr Sangalli, who has managed the Commission at this difficult time. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] This is an important decree-law; let me also thank all the officials of the Commission, who worked with us until late in the evening for days and allowed us to complete the work and get to the House with the mandate to the rapporteurs. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u13	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator D'Alì to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u14	Mr President, my illustration could also be an ultroneal one, after listening to the reports by the rapporteurs. In fact, one of the main elements of unconstitutionality presented by this decree-law concerns the absolute unevenness of the subject, aggravated by the debate in the Commission, of which we have heard the results through the intervention of the rapporteurs. I appeal to you, Mr President, who, with such punctuality, has intercepted the so-called 'out-of-matter' in the examination of the amendments, but also the texts. The amendments approved by the Commission, with the exception of some relating to the original text (but also some of them are out of the question), are clearly out of the question, mainly those put forward by the Government. I've allowed myself to make an example list. What does the tax agencies have to do with local authorities? What does the Armed Forces have to do with this? What does the gas fund have to do with it? What does INEA, the Ministry of Agriculture Institute have to do with this? What does - and these are parliamentary amendments - have to do with the financial disbursements for motor vehicles? What does CINECA, the Interuniversity Consortium have to do with this? What does the whole vast area of health have to do with local authorities? What does the Italian Drug Agency have to do with this? What does the archaeological site of Pompeii have to do with it (but being a municipality, it may be understood in this sense)? What does UNESCO Foundation have to do with it? What does the hiring of law enforcement and fire department have to do with this? Mr President, we are here in the presence of a clear violation of the Constitution, which imposes on the decree-laws the homogeneity of matter, urgency and indifference. Many of these matters, in fact, were absolutely compatible with other possible measures adopted by the Government, to be submitted to the Chambers; I suspect that they were included in this measure in the last 48 hours, in the form of amendments, precisely to avoid them from the parliamentary debate. In fact, in the Commission, we have found ourselves - and on the subject I will explain why we are also in difficulty with Article 81 of the Constitution - with an avalanche of amendments by the Government which, if they had been the subject of separate measures - as it was right that it were, under our Constitution, they would have been subject to parliamentary debate if they had been tabled in the form of decree-laws (as long as they had the requirements of urgency and necessity), at least for sixty days, while in fact they were for sixty hours, with the addition that we had to struggle and exercise a sub-emendative practice, absolutely incomplete as far as we are concerned and for what we and our legislative offices have been able to do, of amending proposals submitted for immediate approval. It should also be borne in mind that a vote of confidence is announced on this measure and, of course, its immodifiability in the House of Deputies. All of this seriously violates Parliament's prerogatives. Then we add the fact that there were already obvious violations in the same text. When a decree-law imposes on citizens or bodies which must comply with the rules deadlines which expire even before the sixty days - as provided for in some articles of this provision - it is clear that Parliament is unable to amend them; even there is a deadline which expired ten days after the publication of the decree-law, when we know that a decree-law can be modified within sixty days through the law of conversion. There are, therefore, obvious violations of the Constitution. We are not talking about Rule 81, Mr President. We have received this measure in the 5th Commission, where we normally express a careful opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution. In this case, the fact that we also had competence in this matter has caused the whole part of the strictest control under Article 81 to be put aside - not because of the Presidency or the Commissioners, but because of the obvious management of the measure. We have incredible passages, which are all listed in our preliminary question (so, even considering the time available, I save the verbal list). However, there is a clear violation of Article 81 which we denounce. We are also witnessing a progressive masterpiece of work (I do not want to use English terms, because I am used to speaking in Italian in this House) on the reform of territorial authorities, which is truly shocking. The decree-law under consideration demonstrates the total confusion that the Government wanted to create in the reform of territorial authorities, assuming that it could do so before the constitutional reform, thus anticipating the constitutional reform with the so-called Delrio law and with other measures and creating a huge confusion. Today, action must be taken to try to overcome the discrasies that the Provinces and the metropolitan cities have, but the latter themselves were common until recently, so there are rules that create further complications, among other things creating a strong discrimination between the levels of the territorial authorities. Mr President, if Article 3 of the Constitution, as well as dealing with equality between citizens, for transitive property certainly concerns the respect of equal rights between citizens through the bodies that administer them, we would today be in a clear, obvious and continuous violation of Article 3 of the Constitution, because here it takes luck to have been born in a municipality rather than in a metropolitan city, because we are faced with different treatments or in a particularly privileged municipality. The Government proposes us and the Commission by majority (of course with our vote against) approves a further donation of tens of millions to the City of Milan and the reason is the Expo. I do not comment on this motivation, perhaps we will make it in the debate if there will be the opportunity, since certainly the vote of confidence will shorten its time, but it is incredible to think that we have committed ourselves to spasm in order to obtain a manifestation that all the countries of the world contend because it brings wealth and we continue to deliver, even after it has been inaugurated and is in progress, public money on something that should be, not only - as they say - self-liquidating from the economic point of view, but should also bring resources to the same Municipality that has done so much for Get it for yourself. Then there is another small masterpiece of violation of the principle of contributory equity, which in the Constitution is - or at least should be - one of the fundamental pillars of our national society. In the text of the Government there is a paragraph that provides that in the management of the tax or tariff on waste the unpaid will be charged the following year to those who have already paid and that would be enough to affect the constitutionality of the entire text. Mr President, you will certainly have paid the waste tax for your private homes; well, next year your bill will have increased by a share of the amounts of those who have not paid. I believe that this is a huge and blatant violation of the principle of contributory equity, partly because it is not based on the effective contributory capacity of every citizen, but on whether or not a citizen has honored the commitment to pay. Therefore, these examples - and I could add a lot of them, but I see that the time available to me is running out - show a clear unconstitutionality of the decree-law under consideration, both in the original text and in the wording proposed by the Commission. I appeal to you as regards the homogeneity of the matter and also to the President of the Republic with regard to Article 81, so that the decree-law in question may not really be published among the laws of our nation because we would gain it in dignity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u15	Mr President, I must say that we believe that we can find all the reasons for non-compliance with Article 77 of the Constitution in this decree-law. I have to say, in fact, that in the case of the measure under consideration, this question arises both with regard to the use of the instrument of the urgent decree and, in particular, with regard to its unevenness. The Commission's work in the referee, although welcome in taking on a number of very serious problems, coming from the territories, has, in our view, produced a greater dose of unevenness and therefore also of non-compliance with Article 77 of the Constitution. We always return to the same subject, but the issue cannot and must not be considered superficially. We always have to discuss the use of the urgent decree and although it seems that in the first months of this year there has been a slight slowdown in its use, the use of the decree, in our opinion, continues to be absolutely excessive. In addition, Mr President, the combination of this excessive use of the urgent decree, the provisions of the measure which do not have any urgency and the almost surreptitious inclusion of provisions completely unrelated to the object of the initial decree-law, at a later date, through the submission of amendments, especially by the rapporteurs, often close to the expiry of the decree-law, constitutes, in addition to an institutional scorn to Parliament, certainly not allowing a thorough evaluation of all the arguments, a real emptying of the role and function proper to the whole of Parliament. I say this also because - as we will see in a few hours - almost certainly on these decrees-laws, which inevitably become omnibus, we will see the imposition of the vow of trust. Therefore, at that point, we will be faced with the masterpiece of the emptying of the prerogatives which Article 70 of the Constitution assigns to Parliament, that is, its legislative function, and Article 77 of the Constitution itself, through the imposition of the question of trust: this therefore becomes a pathology, which we cannot once again fail to denounce. In particular, I would like to say very clearly that it is clear that in this measure there are issues coming from local and territorial authorities, which are going through a very difficult phase, because of the Stability Pact and the lack of adequate resources, for example to deal with the functioning of the basic local public services and other very serious problems, which certainly deserve all the attention of Parliament and the relevant Commissions, and an intervention that can be made through a number of amendments that have been tabled. What we are calling into question, however, is that the whole of these amendments are completely uneven and that there is no common thread between them: this risks making it appear as the aim of the measure, not the desire to cope with extraordinary events, but the desire to finish settling issues that have been dragging on for a long time, with methods of rain intervention. There are interventions in this measure on everything: I would like to mention a few examples in this regard, which we believe should have been included in ordinary legislative measures and which certainly do not have the characteristic of extraordinaryness. I quote, for example, amendment 4.0.1000, which provides for various provisions for the functionality of tax agencies, or amendment 9.0.1000, made up of ten articles, which specifically concern health and which together constitute an organic legislative intervention (therefore, in an absolutely improper and unusual way, a train, such as that of the decree-law, is used, among other things, more than thirty days after its publication and then "on the run"). Another amendment concerns an order order such as that relating to the reorganisation of the drug agency. Among other things, many of these amendments have to do with health matters, which obviously would have advised, even for an orderly way of lawmaking, to produce an ad hoc decree-law or a legislative measure, because some of them are absolutely legal. Another amendment concerns the extraordinary recruitment of 1,700 workers in the Police and Fire Departments: it is okay to hire, but also in this case everything happens in the race. Amendment 16.0.1000 violates the principle laid down in Article 36 of the Constitution, which stipulates that the worker is entitled to remuneration proportionate to the quantity and quality of his work and in any case sufficient to ensure free and dignified existence for himself and his family, since this amendment makes precise reference to the initial roles of a staff for the remuneration of which resources are expected for only two years, which have expired or will lose their jobs or will be summarized under the same initial conditions, unlike workers in the same sector. Not to mention, Mr President, an issue which we particularly care about, which concerns the fate of the provincial police. In fact, the forecast contained in Article 5 and further amended in the Commission' s proceedings, which means that a wealth of experience in the field of the environment is in fact completely dispersed and this is the second episode of a story that has already begun with the absorption of the Forestry Corps by other Police. It is established that the Provincial Police, which on the territory is the one that in recent years has obviously developed experience, ability, specialization in the defence of the environment, in the protection of fauna, in the fishy-venatory surveillance in the protected areas, is in fact absorbed by the Municipal Police, therefore with a dispersion in one or two units and this in our opinion, Mr President, is absolutely contrary to the principles enshrined in Article 9 of the Constitution, which in the broadest sense is the one responsible for the protection of the environment, the territory and the landscape. It took twenty-one years to approve the introduction into the penal code of environmental crimes and we wonder, at this point, who will prevent and repress those crimes, because the provincial police with article 5 of the decree-law is in fact dismissed and dispersed and similar story is being consumed for the Forest Corps of the State. I could give further examples here, but it is clear to everyone that this decree-law, especially in the passage to the Commission, meant that the conditions of necessity and urgency provided for in Article 77 of the Constitution, in addition to the criterion of homogeneity, were completely disregarded. For this reason, Mr President, we ask that we do not pre-empt the examination of the draft law for the conversion of the decree-law. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u16	He asked Senator Bonfrisco to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u17	Mr President, the article under consideration in this House consists of a particularly heterogeneous set of provisions, which go, by way of example, from the re-determination, with loosening of the relative constraints, of the Internal Stability Pact for the years 2005-2018 for the territorial authorities (which are the subject of this decree-law, in relation to interventions related to the care of the territory, the safety of school buildings, the provision of services, the re-allocation of the personnel of the Provinces, including the transit of the personnel of the provincial police to that of the Municipal Police, as has already been mentioned), to measures aimed at allocating liquidity to the commissioners, to provisions concerning the regions in the area of health and university, to measures in the matter of electronic identity card and interventions for the acceleration of the reconstruction processes of Abruzzo for the earthquake of 2009 and the establishment of a free zone in Emilia-Romagna for the flood of 2014 and for the areas affected by the earthquake of 2012. It should also be noted that Article 14 also provides for a postponement of the deadline laid down in Article 1 of Law No 190 of 2014 (the Stability Act in force this year 2015) of the safeguard clauses from 30 June to 30 September 2015. Let us mark these dates well because they will mark our lives from here to the end of the year because these clauses could come into force at this time and then there will be pains, since excise duties on petroleum products are still rising and, above all, those safeguard clauses are taken also in relation to VAT. It is therefore a mere delay of a few months of the activation of the safeguard clause, moreover for an amount of 1,716 million euros and not of 732 million euros, as provided in the report of the Government to the decree-law. In this way, the amount to be recovered through the increase in excise duties on fuels is compressed in only three months of 2015 (try to think what it means a safeguard clause that clicks on excise duties that, instead, to be spread over the year is concentrated and clicks for three months of the year), with effects on consumers that, due to the important increases estimated on the volumes of fuel hesitated (no less, according to the simplest calculations, 13-15 cents more per litre), with the risk of compression of consumption (and consequent contraction of the erarial revenue, to which we all think we can guarantee a constant fluidity) and, therefore, on the financial cover, provided for by the law of stability. The less it is consumed, the less it is guaranteed and the less it will be financed by measures already approved. In view of all this, the decree-law in question is characterized, first of all, as a multi-faceted measure that frustrates, in the first place, the examination of the Commissions and then the parliamentary debate. Just imagine the work and task of the Budget Commission which, in addition to being the Commission on the merits, is also, at the same time, the Commission making the opinion on the financial cover. It should be recalled that in this regard the Constitutional Court, in its judgment n. 22 of 2012, declared the constitutional illegitimacy of the so-called "intruder" norms, that is, totally unrelated to the matter and to the purposes of the decree-law. What is the real purpose of the decree-law? That text should be adhered to. Secondly, there is the presence of some content typical of the financial maneuvers that do not have the vision and the strong connection with the trienniality that all the norms should be inspired when they are dropped in the decrees law, in compliance with the timing of the law of stability and, before that, of the DEF. All these rules are, in fact, in many respects, concentrated only on the current year, or rather, only on what is left of the current year, since we are now at the end of July. Last but not least, I would like to point out that the Decree-Law provides for matters on which the essential requirements of necessity and urgency are completely absent. Consider, for example, the interventions planned for the earthquake in Abruzzo in 2009. Is it true that there is always the urgency to update the regulatory burden, allowing to improve some aspects that, in the course of work, are assessed as inefficient or ineffective compared to the ultimate objective of allowing those territorial authorities and, therefore, basically, those citizens to have the answers they deserve to obtain, but where is the urgency for an action and a topic like that of the earthquake of Abruzzo, occurred in 2009? It is clear, therefore, the violation in many aspects of the constitutional dictation, where, in Article 77, it is exceptionally attributed to the Government the legislative initiative in the presence of requirements of necessity and urgency. Are we sure these requirements really exist? For this reason, we refer our question to the House for a preliminary ruling in order not to proceed with the examination of draft law No. 1977 and instead to be able to hold a debate, in accordance with the times and procedures of this House, in order to enable the Government to work, but without expropriating Parliament's role. [[Applause from the CRi Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u18	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u21	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make one point which Mr D'Alì has already mentioned in the preliminary question, but which we really wanted to return to. This is basically the observation that, as my colleague Mr D'Alì has already said, the decree-law in question has a broad and articulated content, often constituting a form of legislative production which does not comply with the requirements of stability, certainty and simplification of legislation. In some cases the provisions of the decree-law intervene on disciplines that are already stratified over time and are once again heterogeneous and devoid of the characteristics to which the decree-law as such should be inspired, also in view of the calls of the President emeritus of the Republic, Senator Napolitano, and of the President of the Republic in office Mattarella. The object on which I wish to focus this brief speech is, once again, the following. It should be remembered that, once again, President Napolitano, in the letter he addressed on 23 December to the President of the Council and to the Presidents of the Chambers during the examination of the so-called decree-law save Rome, firmly stressed the need to verify with the utmost rigour the admissibility of amendments to the decree-laws according to criteria of close relevance to the object of the measure, even by adopting appropriate amendments to the parliamentary regulations. Moreover, this message was followed by one of similar content in February 2012 and another in 2002 by the then President of the Republic Carlo Azeglio Ciampi. Therefore, we trust that, precisely in the light of these words, which are clear warnings to Parliament, the measure will be analysed in the best manner and with the utmost care. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u24	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote against the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. I believe that the debate has made it clear how it was intended to justify the question of constitutionality for breach of Article 77 of the Constitution with reference not to the text of the decree-law, but to the changes that were introduced in the debate in the Budget Committee. It is evident that the object of the evaluation is distorted and that the prerequisites of necessity and urgency must be assessed with reference to the text of the decree-law. From this point of view, the text of the decree-law reveals the need for necessity and urgency as well as homogeneity, because they are all acts that refer to the matter of territorial authorities. I would just like to add that, as far as necessity and urgency are concerned, I do not think that any of those who have spoken do not meet these two requirements only in the presence of an emergency or a last-minute need. I think it is clear to everyone that the instrument should also be used to provide rapid responses to needs that have matured in the development of times. It has been said: what needs and urgency can there be compared to the earthquake in Abruzzo in 2009? I believe that the objection, in its formalism, comments itself. The provisions contained in the decree-law on territorial authorities and their necessity in relation to the current condition of the work for the earthquake in Abruzzo should be challenged in order to challenge its necessity and urgency. I therefore confirm that the Group of the Democratic Party will vote against these questions for a preliminary ruling, considering that the requirements of Article 77 of the Constitution are fully respected. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u25	We shall now proceed to the vote on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u26	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u27	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u30	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that a hearing of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is taking place. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. President Finocchiaro is here. CRIMI (M5S). I saw her now: it was to give everyone some time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u31	If we do our work quickly, the Commission will be able to resume. I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 5 p.m. and resumed at 5.21 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u32	We shall now proceed to the vote on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u33	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u34	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 5 p.m. and resumed at 5.42 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u35	We shall now proceed to the vote on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u36	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u37	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 5.43 p.m. and resumed at 6.03 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u38	We shall now proceed to the vote on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u39	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u40	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. [[Comments]] Since the quorum has been absent for the fourth time in a row, pursuant to Rule 108 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I remove the sitting and postpone the continuation of the discussion of the bill in title to another session.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u41	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-491.ana.u42	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday 28 July, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.04 p.m.
