ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 31 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u10	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, yesterday Giovanni Conso died. John was an exceptional jurist, a master of law, as generally recognized by a number of successive generations. I had the chance to meet him in 1976 at a convention on state reform, just elected both members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, I young magistrate and he already a sacred monster of law. I would like to mention only a few aspects of that experience, since remembering John Conso would be impossible. He was President of the Accademia dei Lincei, Minister of Justice, President of the Constitutional Court, Vice President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. He's held a series of international positions, and I'm staying here. What did John Conso mean? Although I did not vote for him as vice president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, because I voted for Vittorio Bachelet, during those four and a half years Giovanni Conso was always involved in the work of the Council. As chairman of the reform committee, he was very attentive to the rules drawn up by the Supreme Council of the judiciary on terrorism. His concern was always to ensure legal certainty, on the one hand, but to preserve the citizens' guarantees in the process. Italy won the battle against terrorism at the time, guaranteeing the fight against terrorism through the process, the rules and the rules. John Conso was this. And it was a great help to Vittorio Bachelet. On the death of Vittorio Bachelet few know that we, members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary of the time, together constituted an association entitled to Vittorio Bachelet, with seat at the Council. Of that association Giovanni Conso was the soul and the president, because he wanted to remain in the future generations the memory of a man who, as Vice President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, had given his life for having served the State, for having applied the rules of law. It was recognized, in the leaflet that claimed his death, that Vittorio Bachelet had guaranteed a unanimous management of the Supreme Council of the judiciary even though he was elected by a majority vote. Here, Giovanni Conso also wanted to dedicate the last years of his life to this memory. We met every year to remember the day of the death of Vittorio Bachelet. I believe that this aspect of the life of Giovanni Conso had to be remembered by a few people. I believe that in a Chamber such as the Senate of the Republic not remembering Giovanni Conso for what has been for the history of Italian criminal procedural law, it would be a serious mistake. That is why, Mr President, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I represent to you the opportunity to remind Giovanni Conso with a minute's silence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u13	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the speech by my colleague and, if you will allow me, friend Caliendo seems to me particularly appropriate and in some way necessary. In 1993 I was a very young senator and Giovanni Conso had taken over from Claudio Martelli for a few weeks at the Ministry of Justice. In this very Chamber, together with the Senate, I had the honour of listening to a wonderful speech by Giovanni Conso the morning when he learned of the suicide of Gabriele Cagliari in Milan prison. They were days of dramatic chronicles, between episodes of people who took their lives (from Cagliari to Gardini) due to the effect, of course indirect and only indirect, of a brutal prosecution. Conso had the courage and dignity to remind this House of those issues on which we had all known him and appreciated him as a scholar. He said words of extraordinary humanity about the limits within which prosecution must be exercised, with respect to a certain absolutism that, in this matter, circulated in public opinion. Together with what Senator Caliendo has said, I would also like to recall, outside the narrowest area of law and criminal procedure, the great contribution that Giovanni Conso would have made to our country in the mid-nineties. He was the head of the Italian delegation for the establishment of the International Criminal Court. We worked alongside him and, under his leadership, we managed to overcome many suspicions and misunderstandings, especially with the American delegation. Conso was very committed, precisely because he was a criminalist of the Christian tradition in its best version, always considering the theme of human rights closely linked to his discipline, to the law, to the criminal procedure, to some extent, then, to constitutionalism. For Conso, therefore, that battle won was not a local question, of domestic mini nationalism, to obtain in Rome the prestigious seat. Conso was a man who honored Italian culture in the most modern sense of expression. Some vulgarity and some melancholy that would have reserved for him the news of recent times must be ignored because they do not scratch the profile of a great Italian, to whose memory the Group of Senators of the People's Area bows moved. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), PD and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u16	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I would also like to say a few words in order to recall a very prestigious figure. That of Professor Conso was a personality with an increasingly rare profile in Italian public life. She has been a figure of extraordinary cultural and political finesse, with ways and forms of confrontation of which unfortunately has remained a very thin heritage in the country and also in our Parliament. Conso never failed to seek the most correct forms to express his opinions and never escaped the curiosity of knowing the opinions of those who thought differently from him. More than for his great skills as a jurist, for his important activity as a man of government, for the times in which the Italian Parliament has thought of his figure also imagining that he could hold very high positions in our system, I want to remember him for his personal and human qualities. I think it is necessary to do so, especially in a parliamentary Chamber, because remembering Conso can also remind all of us how we must relate to each other, what the styles of relations between the majority and the opposition must be and how the debate on ideas should take place. Conso represents a ruling class that is becoming increasingly rare in our country and I believe that, if we think about the conditions of Italy in recent years, if we want to look to the future with optimism and if we want to build a future for our children, we must resort to the human example of Conso and remember the style with which he led his public life and the intensity with which he has always thought not to his own personal interest, but to the general one of his country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u17	Colleagues, the Presidency, having had the honour of personally knowing Senator Conso and having appreciated the intellectual and scientific contribution he also offered to the Senate, because he participated in the competition commissions for the selection of our officials, he associated himself with the mourning and his remembrance and asked the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u18	The next item is the continuation of the debate on bill 1577-B, approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. We shall resume the examination of the articles, in the text including the amendments made by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u19	Mr President, I rise to explain the G13.1 agenda, which refers to Article 13, which concerns delegations for public research bodies. I remember that this article was introduced right here, during the first parliamentary passage of the Madia bill. It was - and I will also explain why - a number of rules were introduced to legislate on certain principles relating to the legal status of researchers and, in the second part of the delegation, the introduction of certain rules aimed at simplifying the procedures and activities in general of public research bodies. I said "it was because during the transition to the House, despite the great work we did here in the Senate to introduce this important article requested loudly by the national scientific community and by the workers of the knowledge of public research bodies, it has unfortunately been greatly weakened in its purposes. This gives me the opportunity to briefly introduce the question of the legal status of researchers and, in general, the relationship between knowledge workers and all the areas governing this profession and national bargaining. In the transition to the Chamber, the aspect of this interaction has been greatly underestimated, because I believe that there has been an unjustified concern - and I would like to stress this here - that the introduction of certain principles of the legal status of researchers would be detrimental to the national collective bargaining of public research bodies. I say this very serenely, knowing that there have been discussions and that the terms of the matter have actually been somewhat distorted. It was not our intention here in the Senate, when we introduced this article, to delegitimize this bargaining or to arrive at a total legification of the aspects of this profession. We, on the other hand, concentrated on the specific effects of professional autonomy concerning independence and third-partyness, which are characteristic of this profession, which fully falls within the public professions and the public administration but which at the same time enjoys some peculiarities that are not recognized in any other section of the public administration. While in the case of public administration, full contractualisation is fully justified, in the field of research, in our opinion, there was a need to re-regulation on certain aspects, also in view of the fact - I remind all colleagues, especially those of the House - that, because of legislative decree no. 150 of 2009 (the so-called Brunetta law), the idea has passed that the sectors of national collective bargaining had been reduced to four. Probably sooner or later it will happen that the research sector, which currently enjoys an ad hoc contract, will be playing force merged to other sectors and, probably, to the ministerial one. This will cause a great deal of damage in particular to those aspects of the profession which we would like to regulate, such as the professional autonomy and independence of researchers. It will cause serious damage because the employees of the Ministry have nothing to do with a profession entirely based on knowledge and whose merit falls entirely on the shoulders of the researchers, because there is no trust between the researcher and his head office or his head of structure. There is no such trust relationship as exists in the rest of the public administration and, for example, in the ministerial sector. Therefore, if this amalgamation were to take place (as, among other things, prescribed by a law of the State), the profession of researcher would be decidedly depowered. To date, therefore, it is urgent to proceed with this legislation. Unfortunately, in the passage to the Chamber of Deputies, the reference that was present in the text dismissed by the Senate on the definition of the legal status of researcher, the words that referred to it have been expunged and I have therefore decided to present both amendments to re-introduce the original wording in the text and, specifically, this agenda aimed at committing the Government, in the formulation of delegated decrees, to actually establish a legal status of the researchers in order to remedy the weakening of the text in the Chamber of Deputies, the result of an misunderstanding of the purposes of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u20	Mr President, I rise to explain the G13.2 agenda, which is the result of the transformation of amendment 13.2. This is an agenda to increase transparency and discourage, anticipate or manage any possible conflict of interest that might alter the outcome of studies and research. I hope that all of you can share this objective. In particular, for those involved in environmental epidemiological research (and therefore health effects) it is requested to adopt precise protocols in accordance with the International Society for Environmental Epidemiology (ISEE) document and the declaration of interest of the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC). These are documents for environmental epidemiologists, which explicitly place the researcher in the position of those who have to fulfil a series of obligations to research subjects, society, funders, employees and colleagues. Scientific research must be rigorous and objective in all areas and, above all, in the biomedical field, not only because it is an essential prerequisite for achieving good results and really able to increase knowledge, promote the development of new therapies and improve the health standards of the population, but above all to preserve institutional and professional credibility and maintain public consensus. In fact, it is not enough that it is actually impeccable, but it must also be perceived globally as such, because appearance also counts when a large share of the money needed to support it comes from taxpayers' pockets and when the conclusions that follow can have a substantial impact on the quality of life of the population. It is on the basis of this conviction that I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this agenda, which aims to regulate private funding for research subjects so as to restrict the possibilities of altering results for reasons of particular interest. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u21	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 12. I propose that the agenda be reworded G13.2 by including in the first point of the device the following words: "Evaluate further initiatives to protect the independence of research" and "Evaluate the introduction of new provisions on obligations and requirements." Finally, with reference to the third point of the device, I propose that it be reworded by adding the words: "Estimating the appropriateness of I am in favour of the G13.1 agenda. Finally, I am against all the amendments referred to in Articles 14, 15 and 16.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u22	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u23	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 12.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 12.1, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario, until the following words are taken. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 12.1 and amendment 12.2 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 12.3 tabled by Senator Mauro Mario, until the following words are added: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 12.3 and amendment 12.4. are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 12.5, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario, until the following words are taken. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 12.5 and amendment 12.6. are therefore excluded. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Fucksia, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G13.2? FUCKSIA (M5S). Yes, Mr President, and I insist on voting on the agenda itself. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G13.2 (text 2), tabled by Senator Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Bocchino, do you insist on voting on agenda G13.1? BOCCHINO (Misto-AEcT). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G13.1, tabled by Senator Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u26	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, since it is certain that this amendment will be rejected, since the text is all armored, I would like to propose that it be transformed into an agenda, because the will of the amendment is not destructive. Simply, of course, in the context of the managements and the economy of the individual office, an intervention for the regulation of working hours, for their reduction or in any case for their different articulation, aimed at protecting the parents of small children, can also intervene, always in the freedom of the same public administration, to facilitate the situations of employees who work away from home. It is - I repeat - a matter of articulating working time within a public administration, which ultimately allows greater use and even greater rationalization of work. I therefore turn Amendment 14.1 into an agenda in order to assess the promotion of the rationalization of working time arrangements, including the reduction of inconveniences for off-site workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u27	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda G14.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u28	I agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u29	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u30	You insist on voting on agenda G14.1, Senator Crimes? CRIMI (M5S). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the G14.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 14. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 15.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.1 tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.1, tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.2 tabled by Senator Mauro Mario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 17, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u31	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. I am in favour of the G17.1 agenda if the following rewording is accepted: I am in favour of the G17.2, G17.3 and G17.4. I also give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G17.5 and G17.6 if the following rewording of the mechanism is accepted:
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u32	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u35	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to subscribe to all the amendments and agendas relating to Rule 17.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u36	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 17.4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.4 tabled by Senators Zizza and Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.6 tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.9 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.10 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.13 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.14, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.18, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.19, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.20 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Bianco, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G17.1? WHITE (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G17.1 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator De Petris, do you insist on voting on agenda G17.2? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G17.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G17.3 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator Berger, do you insist on voting on agenda G17.4? BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G17.4 tabled by Senator Berger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Ciampolillo, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G17.5? CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Yes, Mr President, and I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G17.5 (text 2), tabled by Senator Ciampolillo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Campanella, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G17.6? CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Yes, Mr President, and I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda for 17.6 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u39	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, the point is as follows: as I said in the general debate, any reform of the public administration loses sense and impact if it does not in itself take the opportunity for users to assess the work of the offices providing the service. In recent years the culture of evaluation has spread, but it has been emptied of its meaning in practice because, in almost all the cases I have had occasion to point out, it is carried out only from a formal point of view, on projects often approved during the year or even at the end of the year to which they refer. A serious and real assessment of the work of the offices makes sense if it is done by those who use offices. That is why in the amendments that I have tabled and which have not been adopted I have asked, as I now ask the Government on this agenda, to take care of the problem: no reform of the public administration will ever be effective if it does not involve the public, the users who use that administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u40	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G17.6 (text 2), tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 18, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u41	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments. With regard to the agenda G18.1, I invite the presenters to reword it, committing the Government: "to consider the opportunity to introduce the express..."
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u42	In the commitments to the government this expression has now become fashionable.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u43	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u44	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.1, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.2 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.3 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u47	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, this is perhaps not the most important amendment to Article 18, unfortunately, much worse is contained in the text that the Government is pushing. However, it is also worth putting to the attention of colleagues the fact that we are simply asking here to introduce a measure of transparency, i.e. the publication and updating of curricula and the criminal certificate for people who come to assume important roles within the system of essential services. Another issue is that of the ceiling of wages; yet another is that of the blocking of revolving doors, i.e. the exchange and transhumance of seats between municipal or regional councils and service companies. The amendment we are about to vote on - I repeat - is limited to a simple measure of transparency, so I call on my colleagues to vote on it or at least on the government to make a commitment in this regard. I realize that we cannot vote on anything here that we would all agree on. Therefore, if there is a willingness of the Government to make a commitment to ensure transparency, I would be willing to withdraw the amendment and turn it into an agenda. Otherwise, I would insist on your vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u48	Mr President, I am in favour of the proposal to turn Amendment 18.5 into an agenda, provided that the wording is inserted to assess whether it is appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u49	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u52	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, let us be serious: this is a delegated law. The fact that in a bill of this kind, as an alternative to precise precepts to which the Government should adhere, we simply ask for an indication and the Government, through the rapporteur, even pretends to reserve the possibility of not sticking to the commitment, I think it is not acceptable. We are talking about a minimum measure of transparency, namely the publication of curricula and the criminal certificate. I don't think we can do less than a minimum about that. I insist at least on a full wording as an agenda: we are talking about a delegation law. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u53	Rapporteur: Mr Pagliari, do you agree with the request for a full draft agenda? Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. No, Mr. President. I keep my opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi, at this point do you insist on voting on the amendment? ENDRIZZI (M5S). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.5, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.6 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u56	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I use this amendment in an explanation of vote because - alas - as you know, Mr President, the 5th Commission has cut off all the amendments with much more relevant content. There are very few left. Amendment 18.8 refers to the provision, introduced to the Chamber, on the discipline of the public administration's corporate participation, in which it is planned to identify a maximum number of financial years with loss of balance for the companies involved by the local authorities, which therefore involve the company's liquidation obligation. On Article 18 there is an issue relating to the reordering of participants, in particular on local public services. The issue we have been trying to address for some time now concerns the results of the 2011 referendum. We had asked that the reorganization of the participants, in particular as regards water services, be carried out in compliance with the referendum results. But this question was not accepted either by the Government or by the majority. This, Mr President, poses a very serious problem, which we will also address in the debate on constitutional reform. But, of course, it is truly incredible that, in this country, even a referendary result such as that of 2011, which solemnly stated that water is a common good by pronouncing against the process of privatization of water services, is as if it did not exist. Years have passed and in each Region, in every municipal administration different rules have actually been followed. And even with Article 18 of the Workers' Statute, the Government has stated that the will of the people, the expression of the citizens through referendum does not matter to them and continues to go on as if nothing had happened.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u57	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.8, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 18.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u60	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I rise on this amendment, which I ask you to subscribe to, because it is necessary to break the gag. It was prevented from amending with dubious comments under Article 81 of the Constitution, in the sense that it was argued, in the Budget Committee, that these measures involved expenditure. Well: I remember the example of the mayor of Paris who, after having republished the system of management of the water service of the metropolis, has obtained millionaire savings, which in our case would be in the background to a higher principle, on which I will briefly dwell shortly. It must be made clear, however, that there is not even the alibi of economic convenience, because we citizens would have all the convenience, if it is true that the State is us, to have public services managed by public bodies that do not make the ridge and do not make profits to private individuals. We would have the economic convenience because we are the State. We would then have the duty to do so, because there was a popular pronouncement: 27 million citizens voted to keep things that way, and the Democratic Party, which was previously in favour of privatisation, got on the wagon of the referendum and then betrayed immediately after the popular will and betrayed it even today. It would then be not only economically convenient, but also institutionally and constitutionally necessary. Well, this right has been denied to us in the Commission. All the amendments that raised this issue have been mowed down in this House. I am referring, therefore, indirectly, to a fundamental issue. We're here to break a gag. It is not only the question of the amendment to our examination, but another much wider one, which concerns the relations of the Government with Parliament and the relations of Parliament and the Government with the institutions of direct democracy, which relate to the relations existing between the right of citizenship and the subjection to economic powers. This game is being played here. Vote as you can. We shall vote in accordance with our conscience. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u61	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.9 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.11 tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.12 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Crimi, do you accept the rewording proposed by the rapporteur on the agenda G18.1? CRIMI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G18.1 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 19, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u62	I am against all the amendments tabled on Rule 19.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u63	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u64	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 19.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.1, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 19.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u67	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to have a linguistic clarification on Amendment 19.2: what is the word 'internalisation'? Can we use a more "present" word in the language?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u70	CRIMI (M5S). Amendment 19.2 aims to safeguard the realities that have decided to manage some essential public services on their own, in house, internally, in short, with their own resources. In fact, one of the prerogatives of the referendum on water, voted by millions of Italians a few years ago, was to safeguard also for the municipalities the possibility to manage in house some services without being penalized, as instead happens in other realities.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u73	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, perhaps it is good to remember that we are in today's situation because of the 2011 referendum, which was deemed to be a referendum to maintain public water, when instead the text of the law, among other things in an amendment of a senator of the Democratic Party, clearly stated that water as such remained a public good, but its management, that is, the fact of bringing it into the homes of the citizens, was an activity that had to be subject to competition. And this could be done both by participating companies and by those not participating, but with something that has become very rare, that is, by making races at the outcome of which those who are good dealt with, those who are not lose the race and will do something else or do nothing. This is the solution that we had found with the 2009 law and that was then repealed with a campaign full of lies - to which, to be honest, there was no great answer - which led to a victory of repeal. Since then, from the following month, the Democratic Party itself has begun to say: ah, these participants; think about these participants. There is a very nice criterion that applies to participants and non-participants: a race is held, the winner manages and the loser does something else. And that should apply to everything: highways, water, transport, everything. On the contrary, we prefer to have very strange criteria, such as losses or non-losses, and in this way we end up being encouraged by companies that impose, through various mechanisms, unreasonable tariffs on citizens: those are certainly not at loss and no one thinks to dissolve them. A very simple criterion should then be introduced: competition. We had done so in 2009, but the referendum repealed this provision in 2011. [[Applause from Senators Marino Luigi and Amidei.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u74	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.2 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.3 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.4 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 19.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u77	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, as a signatory, I would ask the rapporteur to accept the agenda resulting from the transformation of Amendment No 19.5 for the same criteria as Senator Endrizzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u78	I call on the rapporteur to comment on this proposal. Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Mr President, I could accept it with the wording: 'to consider whether it is appropriate to do so'. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Girotto, do you accept the proposed rewording for the agenda G19.5? GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, I do not accept and maintain the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.5 tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 19.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u81	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, the monster has been allowing the private to enter the companies that manage public goods, and why this? On the one hand, when we have a public limited company, the local authority that holds a majority share cannot afford to give up those shares (i.e. partially recover the theme of the previous article), nor lose value. Therefore, there is a total alteration of the market and of public aims because, if I entrust to a society that guarantees to my citizens a better service and at a lower price, the quotas that I hold of the other society, what was once of the citizens, what happens to them? I have an asset depreciation that I no longer know how to justify and manage on the balance sheets. And the city and its citizens remain cherished by this monster, where - on the one hand - they pursue profit and - on the other - they should pursue the public good. That is why it is important that companies are either totally private or totally public. Otherwise, we have the maximization of the defects of a mixed management and not that of the virtues. We must be able to predict that public administrations in general will go back to doing what the citizens are asking for. Politics must not stand between the will of the people and the execution of the best solutions, which very often leads to benefits for friends who finance election campaigns. We must return to bringing politics back to being a direct transmission body of the will of the people. And in essential services this must be done, and can be done, only by ensuring that there are no public interests. The referendums made it very clear that citizens do not want water to be managed by private individuals and that, in general, there can be no profit and no remuneration for private capital on essential services. We are now facing a crossroads. This article simply states a desire to unite, to make few subjects, those with whom to interloquire, a very strong Government and lobby, able in some way to float against a contrary popular will. Otherwise, there would be a step of dignity that is not possible here today. And I'm not Don Quixote going against windmills! If anything, I am John, a voice crying in the desert. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u82	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 20, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u83	I am against all the amendments. I am against order G20.1. On the G20.2 agenda, the opinion was in favour of the following rewording: replacing the words 'to assess the modalities' by 'to assess the appropriateness'. Otherwise, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u84	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u85	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 20.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.2 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Crimes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 20.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u88	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the rule that I would like to amend with this amendment introduces, for the first time in our system, the division of the function of the prosecutor. At the ordinary judiciary we will have the public prosecutor and prosecutor of the ordinary judiciary, depending on the subject matter of the jurisdiction. It is a problem that has always been solved by recourse to the exclusive jurisdiction in the field of both administrative justice (Council of State) and accounting judiciary (Court of Auditors). Amendment 20.4 signed by myself and my colleague, Mr Bernini, does nothing but affirm the same principle without betraying a principle that is constant, namely the uniqueness of the prosecutor in each judiciary and each jurisdiction. Putting the two together seems crazy to me. To accept Amendment 20.4 therefore means to say - no more, no less - that the exclusive jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors will be followed by the public prosecutor of the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors will decide. And that applies to exclusive jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u89	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.4 tabled by Senators Caliendo and Bernini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.5 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G20.1, tabled by Senators Caliendo and Bernini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Crimes, do you accept the rewording on the agenda G20.2?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u90	Mr President, may I ask the rapporteur to repeat the rewording?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u91	The rewording is as follows: The words "modes" are changed to "opportunity" are changed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u92	It seems to me that we had already put the agenda in a soft way (to assess the way in which it is introduced). In any case, I accept the rewording, so much we know how the agendas are usually taken into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u93	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G20.2 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 21. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Rule 22 shall not be put to the vote as it is not amended by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 23. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 23. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Just for the sake of clarity, the Presidency confirms that amendment 20.1 has not been approved by the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u94	I communicate that, in order to allow the representation of all the parliamentary groups provided for in article 1, paragraph 5, of the law 14 April 1975, n. 103, the President of the Senate has called to be part of the Parliamentary Commission for the general address and supervision of the broadcasting services the senators Luigi D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Mario Ferrara in place of the senators Paolo Romani and Gianni Pietro Girotto, resigned.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u95	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u98	BRUNI (CRI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us contains a number of delegations, which allow the government to have a significant theoretical impact on the functioning of the public administration. Many of my colleagues have made a number of points about the uneven nature of the cases and of the matters dealt with in this draft law. I would like, with this explanation of vote, to point out the inconsistencies and the criticalities of a text which, instead of resolving and improving our public administration, will probably result in yet another missed opportunity. By way of example, we can start with Article 1 on the Charter of Digital Citizenship. Some statements are acceptable, but they flatter with the government's current support for true and practiced computer literacy policies. Just think of the current state of computerization in our schools: many institutions in recent years have been equipped with interactive multimedia boards and computer laboratories. However, today school leaders are unable to provide for normal maintenance and, therefore, most pupils lack the most basic computer facilities. In other words, it could be said that the Government refers to digital citizenship without having structured a city or a digital community. What functions, then, will these rules have without the investment of a reasonable number of economic resources? The articles concerning the service conference, the silence-consent and the SCIA have the merit of setting themselves the objective of clarifying a series of uncertainties and inconsistencies that are often, or almost always, resolved only after the scrutiny of administrative justice. However, there is still concern about the Commission's confusion which, over the last few months, has already intervened - for example - on the case of silence - assent with other regulatory measures, certainly not facilitating the approach to the administrative procedure by citizens and businesses. The largest part of this bill is, however, that relating to the organisation and staff of the public administration. Among the novelties most discussed, there is the forecast of the reduction in the number of prefectures. I do not want to seem to be a nostalgic and corporate supporter of the organizations of the unitary state, but it is important that, in the face of the scaling down and the suppression in nuce of the Provinces, the only supracommunal garrison in the various provincial territories has remained and will remain the prefecture. Especially in the territories with the greatest economic crisis, still today, the majority of employment disputes are put back to the negotiating tables established in the territorial offices of government. By reducing and overcoming this type of organisation, who will then be the interlocutor of the mayors in sensitive matters such as order and public security or the management of environmental emergencies? As usual, the effect of the announcement "abolish prefectures" prevails over the concrete solutions of the problems, but this is the distinctive figure of the Renzi Government. Similarly, the number of chambers of commerce is reduced very demagogic: they are not abolished, but the number of chambers of commerce is reduced, thus admitting the necessity of their function. All this happens to chase a few more votes, smuggling the reduction of some armchairs for the complete elimination of these bodies. In the end, sixty chambers of commerce should remain alive, including those in border areas. This will mean that the surviving chambers will be little more than one per Region, with imaginable negative consequences for both companies and employees, who, at best, will have to change places of work and living conditions. This bill cannot be approved not only for the reasons outlined above, but also for other reasons, including certainly the prediction of the abolition of the State Forestry Corps, which has perhaps been mentioned too much in recent weeks. In recent months - as you will remember - already on the occasion of the first reading in the Senate, the national prosecutor anti-mafia had supported the need not to dismantle the Forest Corps, adding that the specialist skills and the widespread knowledge of the territory are very valuable. Despite this appeal and the numerous requests, the Government and the majority in the previous two passages have given birth to amendments and adjustments that, to date, involve only the possible confluence of the Body in a single police force. This unsatisfactory decision will not eliminate the disastrous effects envisaged by the abolition. There are many questions that have already been raised in the previous debate on this draft law. What will happen to the stations of the Forest scattered on the territory and its personnel, perhaps re-employed for services of protection of public order or traffic control? Who will control our natural parks? Who will deal with environmental crimes with the same competence as the Forestale? I imagine a small office, placed inside a police station, a police station or, at the limit, a provincial command of the Carabinieri, with a couple of agents and perhaps a car supplied. All this will result in the dispersion of the know-how of the Forest. To these considerations we must add that, following the Delrio law, on the reorganization of the Provinces and the present bill, also the provincial police end up being dismantled. From this it will come that another important garrison in our territory that guaranteed the prevention and repression of the eco-reactors will fail. We could say, therefore, that the combined provisions of Article 8, behind the fetish of administrative rationalization and the fake saving of public expenditure, with a double blow cancels or absorbs (to use euphemism) the only two bodies genetically predisposed to the protection of health, nature and the environment. All this happens precisely in the time when every Italian citizen has understood how strategic and essential for the future of our children the defense of the territory, how decisive it is - especially in some regions - to be rooted in a culture of legality that fights and prevents the phenomenon of the ecomafia. The most controversial part of this alleged reform is, of course, personnel reform. In particular, the principles and criteria introduced by Article 8 concerning public management are the object of dispute. I do not return to the questions relating to the municipal secretary and I just say that, in view of the only advantage, due to some salary cuts, the municipal administrations will be deprived of a neutral figure that in the past has guaranteed the protection of the legality of the acts of the municipality. Minister Madia to justify this decision several times wanted to emphasize that the presence of the municipal secretary could be a kind of complication in the administrative procedure. Anyone who knows the role of the secretary knows that this is not the case. Often, indeed, many acts of the municipality do not require a cumbersome and complicated signature, as was said before, of the secretary. Having cleared the field of this misunderstanding, one could return to the old idea of reabsorbing the figure in the National Anti-corruption Authority. This passage also jumped especially in the first reading at the Senate. Another argument, which inevitably militates against this reform, concerns the so-called rationalization of public leadership through the establishment of the unique roles of state, regional and local authorities. Several complaints and possible critical remarks on this point of the bill. Certainly, the most critical aspect, in our opinion, concerns that part of the delegation in which the new discipline of the conferral of managerial positions is constituted. As other colleagues have already pointed out, these forecasts automatically give rise to the effect of allowing politicians to choose their leaders as a result of the weakening, not to mention, of the elimination, of the separation between politics and administration. This could lead to a breach of the constitutional principles of impartiality and good governance. The ratio of Article 11 on public leadership therefore seems to be, only to allow the Government in turn to be able to reward the faithful leaders, regardless of the evaluation of the professional skills of the same. We want to have, alongside the Minister, the President of the Region, the Mayor a obsessive, flattened or, however, grateful to the politician who chose him and not competent and responsible as he should be the one who administers and manages the public thing. These last reflections show that today we are voting for a fake reform, studied and prepared according to the philosophy of man only at the command, from which we are distant light years and that it will not solve the evils of the Italian public administration, but will result in the usual electoral spot used by the Government, as all Italians now know. For these reasons I confirm the vote against the Conservatives and Reformists Group. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u101	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law has a plurality of delegations so broad that it has been a political scandal for us. It cannot be expected that Parliament by means of a single measure will grant such broad powers to the Government in such large areas of public administration. This affects adversely from the point of view of our Constitution. These principles and our thinking have been applied in the preliminary rulings we have presented and set out, but which have been rejected by a rather deaf majority on the fundamental and substantive reasons. In my speech, therefore, I can only appeal to reasonableness and, since colleagues in the left-wing parliamentary majority do not want to hear them, the reasons will be felt by our citizens. It is right to know that with this measure we intervene on the digital administration and its code, on the conference of services, on the discipline of silence-acceptance, on the certified signal of beginning activity, on the organization of the ministries, the governmental agencies, the public non economic agencies and the offices of direct collaboration of the Ministers, as well as on the reorganization of the forest body of the State and the provincial police corps. There is also intervention on the Public Automotive Register, the Prefectures, the Territorial Units of the Government, the Sports Organization, the Chambers of Commerce, careers for public management, municipal and provincial secretaries and - again - health managers, public research bodies, public employment, companies participated by public administrations and local public services of general economic interest. As if that were not enough, given that the matter seemed rather restricted, in the transition to the Chamber of Deputies there was a further extension of the delegations assigned to the Government by a Parliament which, in this way, seems to want to empty its powers and give a really blank delegation to an Executive which, among other things, shows that it does not deserve this confidence. More than a year and a half ago we approved the delegations on tax reform. Where did the decrees go? Where am I? This is a government that only needs to fuel the enormous hunger for media protagonism it has. 10:51 a.m. (Mauro Giovanni followed) With the measure under consideration, we will give today, once again, bread to a government that nourishes only its image and does not fill its work with substance. I am thinking of the continuing decline in youth employment (at 42 per cent), the continuing failure to achieve the predestined levels of GDP (at 0.7%), the needs of our small and medium-sized enterprises and the Mezzogiorno of Italy, deserted and without any hope of development. In the face of all this we still play politics and the Renzi Government still plays the proclamations, the fake reforms and the fake interventions. How long can you continue to provide these empty boxes of your measures and initiatives? We have paid attention to all parts of the measure and wanted to make changes; some things have succeeded and some have liked it, but that is not the concept. There has never been a strategic view of public administration as one of the successful elements of a national community, while it certainly contributes to the development and employment of a country system. You've gotten horny putting together a bunch of things, which, by the way, sometimes don't even harmonize. Madam Minister, I would like to give you a concrete example, with reference to the reordering of the service conference. The measure under consideration provides - it is written - the definition of mechanisms and terms for the technical evaluation and the necessary compositions of public interests in the event that the law provides for the participation in procedure of the administrations responsible for the protection of the environment, the landscape, the historical and artistic heritage, health and public safety. We wonder how this composition of public interests, in a fundamental step, especially for some administrative procedures, can take place when the majority is compactly claiming that ISPRA, a research organisation par excellence in the field of environmental protection, becomes, together with the regional ARPAs, an active administrative agency, with the ability to express binding opinions for the public administration. This in fact says the text of bill 1458 on environmental agencies. This is one of the examples of schizophrenia that the Government is in danger of creating, by being delegated by Parliament a plethora of subjects all important and fundamental, but which do not find any harmonization with respect to the initiatives. This Parliament has become the landing place for everything that, even in various segments, the Government believes it must do, without having the capacity to provide Parliament with the attention, but above all for the citizens who are really waiting for reforms, an organic vision of the whole. In addition to that, if even if we want to make new legislation, we are not able to delegate not only what is already in existence, but what is going on in Parliament, even at the initiative of the Government, we are really in a very embarrassing situation. Once again, today we must reiterate a great bitterness, in a situation in which we have not taken a position of preconceived opposition, we have not perched behind the screen of the opposition which prejudiced against the majority line. We have contributed, and I have mentioned this with regard to the prefectures committed in border areas to receiving the landings of immigrants. I thank the Government for having accepted the amendment at my first signature which took account of this real need, and I thank it for expressing a favourable opinion on the agenda which equates the positions of the members of the police with that of the members of the defence forces as a whole, because we felt that there was an inequality. We recognize when the government can change its starting positions, but we cannot vote in favour of a reform that, in so many passages of political life, we have said is important, but not in this form, not with this attitude of the Government towards Parliament, not with this substance that brings together so many issues that make us discuss so much, but do not make us focus on what very little is very important. Therefore, Madam President, in thanking you for giving me time to finish my speech, I declare my Group's vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u104	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I do not ask you to listen to me, although it seems to me that you would be the only one to do so in this situation of enthusiasm that I see in the majority and in the participation in the House of Members of the majority for the almost successful outcome of the measure by Minister Madia. We were talking about style issues before, but - what he wants - times change, styles change, and not always politics represents what it should be, and perhaps we should also ask ourselves why. I think, Madam President, that this would have been the only real measure on which the Government should have put its trust, but I am not saying it in a derisory way with respect to the measure, but because in fact this bill is a political programme of which we have challenged the delegation: a delegation with so many points, a great book of dreams, which can be shared or not, but in which the Government declares a series of own wills, not specified, to intervene in so many areas. I think this would have been a moment of great opportunity and an opportunity to share. We have, of course, challenged parts of the measure in a parliamentary sense, of which we have asked for it to be deleted, for example the part concerning local public services. We believe that it is not possible to delegate in white to the Government the reorganization of this sector, on which certainly much has been discussed, perhaps not finding positive solutions or in any case almost never arriving to a general project; perhaps an ad hoc measure could have allowed a different deepening of both the systems of governance of the local public services and the real contents. In fact, the Minister teaches me that there are very different philosophies of interpretation on this subject and therefore it is not simply a matter of choosing a reorder: it is seen from the debate on public water, on the service taken by the private, on the choices that can be made and on the differentiations that there are from one service to another, also from where the various services are carried out. Probably collecting waste in Milan - let's leave it alone in Rome, it is better not to say - rather than in a mountain country it has different costs and requires different systems. So the fact that we delegate everything seems to me to raise some doubts even in the many colleagues of the majority who have done the local administrators and who have committed themselves to optimizing these services. About the debate on the major issue of water. You know, Madam Minister, that there is this very interesting new view of "benecommunism," that is, of what is the definition of the common good and therefore also of resources. Of course, perhaps we could transcend a little from the philosophy of politics, but politics is also beautiful because there are opinions. Last week, on something different like RAI, there was a debate about what governance systems could be; there was an amendment by Mr Fornaro - which seems to me to have been transformed, somewhat in contrast to what we were voting on, but it doesn't matter - which was about the dual system, which, as you know, is also exercised in public service companies. In other countries we are returning to the original system and here too it would be logical to differentiate between a society that carries out local public services and that, although participated by the private, is not quoted on the stock exchange and a society that instead is quoted on the stock exchange. In short, I believe that a different deepening, without a blank delegation, would have been good. You also need a little bit of thinking about style. I think this measure is something with a plating on it (as you might say in the jewelry store): there is something brilliant on it, a minimum of deburocratization and some other passages, but we can't go into it, we can't understand it, we can't know what will happen after today we have exercised our right to vote in this House, because it doesn't say. It says instead that we delegate the government to do everything. But there are some things that they wanted to do and that have been put into the provision. My colleague, Senator Arrigoni, has very well remembered the "Caporetto" of the Forest Guard, for example; that we decided to do and we said so. Maybe we don't say about wider interests; but when we have to disassemble the Forest Guard, we say it well. Yesterday I tried to accentuate one aspect of Article 4 which might have a sense of simplification. But the fact remains that we delegate to the Government the task of identifying the works, for which the Government even commissioner, with the President of the Council, the simplification and acceleration of the procedures, without knowing what they are, because the delegation first says that the works must be identified and then says that on those that will be identified there will be the delegation to be able to act directly, of empire, by the Government. I have some concern, Madam President. I have a different story from yours, but I believe that - as President Zanda also mentioned earlier - we have a common way of feeling respect for the forms of widespread democracy that, despite the difference in opinions, still leads us to be clear in saying yes or no to something. The embarrassment therefore lies in asking why this reform of the public administration has not been done differently: a measure like this, at such a difficult time for the country, could have found a wider consensus in this House. At this point I would like to make a more current reflection than the general conditions of politics: not everyone knows how to make politics. Today, very often, politics is to think of ending up on newspaper covers; politics is sometimes to be able to understand what are the sensibilities of a particular moment, identifying paths that do not always find preclusions on the results, maybe maintaining each one's role, without those enlistments a little'mercenaries' that there can be, but identifying specific situations over which the importance of merit prevails. So let us return to good communism (look at what I have to say, Mr President - that communism which unfortunately does not represent me in history), but we should be able to find these moments, although certainly not under these conditions. If we do not understand that every moment of politics, even in this House, is an important moment, because outside or on the sidelines of this House we are talking about other things, it means that there is a bit of arrogance, which is sometimes paid for. In the morning I read the newspapers: I used to be a sleeper, but now at my age I find myself waking up early, at 6.30, and following the press review. I do not like the definitions of Vietnam; I think that everyone has the freedom to express their own opinions, but not only to exercise their own little political consciousness in order to share in a representative history. If it is true then how true it is that someone says that one must reason by visions, if one is shortsighted he must wear glasses. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u107	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, a delegation for the reordering of public administration is a very demanding programme. To be honest, at first we thought that a reform was needed to make services to citizens simpler and more transparent. We had thought that people's lives could really be made more appropriate in the relationship with public administration, and, above all, that in a time of crisis such as what we are experiencing, we really wanted to put in place a reform of public offices for the enhancement and relaunch of public services and public work. In fact, at a time of crisis such as the current one, this would have been one of the very important elements in starting a process of economic recovery. In recent times, however, public services have been seen more and more - alas - only as a factor of weight for the state budget. Their reordering, reform and valorisation in our view could be - and for this reason we see a missed opportunity in this process - a formidable tool also from the economic point of view. For a long time, however, the only philosophy that prevails every time we talk about services to citizens is that of spending review and this concerns - alas - all the fields. These hopes in the presentation of reform and even more in the debate that first developed here in the Senate, then in the House and now again in the Senate, have been somewhat disappointed. The concern, in our view, is not so much the concern that was proclaimed yesterday by the Minister, namely to ensure transparency, simplification, a process of adapting services to the new needs of citizens. In fact, it seemed much more to us that the reforming body was particularly focused on defining the line of command rather than bringing public administration closer to citizens in order to improve their services. The issue of the line of command, as a strong sign of this process of delegation and reform, marks a bit the whole of the Arctic and the various delegations. I will not dwell on the use of delegations once again - we have already done so extensively on the question of constitutionality - which is not in line with Article 76 of the Constitution. I should like to stress today, in an explanation of vote, the points in the wording of this draft delegation, which we believe to be highly critical. I repeat, we have approached this project with the idea that we could really make a contribution to improving the relationship between public offices, therefore public administration, and citizens to improve services. I think that the result is not exactly in line with this objective, but more concerned with reconfiguring the whole of public administrations through a design - and for this reason I was talking about the command line - in reality very top-notch, centralized. This appears a little in all individual delegations. Then there are some issues that are particularly critical for our sensitivity. In general, on the whole issue of public work - and I address you, President, because we know how many years there has been no renewal of the contract - in reality this delegation only makes the following operation: it de-contractualizes public work and ex lege intervenes on remuneration and organization; in this case, among other things, with such a general delegation that it gives wide powers to the Government itself. Let's go back to the critical issues. We have focused particularly on Articles 2, 3 and 4, because we certainly think it is a good intention to reorder the service conference for the umpteenth time in order to give certainty of the times, speed up and simplify, but the fundamental question is that Parliament, at the very moment when it comes to these processes (which certainly must be aimed at identifying certain times, speeding up and everything else) must have as its sole objective the preservation of the public interest at its best. We are not here to do other interests, we are here first of all to say, in the specific case in which we deal with public administration, how we best protect the public interest and therefore how to protect this interest, which is obviously articulated, we give certainty of the times and predict procedures in which there can be no elements of delay for other purposes, for example for corruption as many times has happened. Now, this objective, in Articles 2, 3 and 4, appears entirely focused on simplification and certainty of the times, sacrificing, in my opinion, the most important issue, namely the public interest. Article 2 is entirely based on the question of time certainty and even more so Article 3 is based on the mechanism of silence-consent. I would like to ask you a question: if a simple citizen wanted to use this mechanism, he would not be able to do so because this mechanism does not concern him. We don't say things that aren't true. In fact, if any citizen wanted to have silence-consent applied, for example, to the Revenue Agency, maybe it could also be a good thing, maybe even to other administrations, but it is not. You know perfectly well that this mechanism certainly does not concern the rights of individual citizens but only established interests, which can be absolutely legitimate (who wants to open a business, who wants to build, who wants to ask for permission for a project) but, more importantly, the fundamental issue is the better protection of the public interest. Now, I find it very serious - I repeat - to have given the possibility that silence-consent also applies to the administrations responsible for the protection of environmental, landscape and territorial goods. We have fought against this hypothesis for years because we believe that this mechanism does not defend a true interest of our country, that is, the protection of our territory and landscape goods. Another trial was needed. The delegation had to serve to ensure that all the Regions, as Puglia and Tuscany did, had a law for the country plans. Other things had to be done also for the mechanism of reordering of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, strengthening the superintendences that instead are now placed under the chain of command of the prefect. In this way, in fact, we do other favors to the strong interests. I ask another question: is the problem of this country to put soil consumption under control, that is, the real question since we are one of the countries with the highest consumption of soil, or rather to speed up the process for projects that up to now have been less than a response to the economic crisis and a mechanism of protection? The other critical point, again on the issue of the territory, is regarding the modalities of intervention in order to rearrange the public administration according to the public interest. With regard to the dismantling of the Forestry Corps, pending the legislative decrees we will spend a long period of confusion because we will not understand well what will be the fate of this Body, just when, instead, we urgently need a garrison on the territory to repress and prevent environmental crimes, protect biodiversity and defend the parks. The provincial police will be dismembered. For a small town council a policeman will replace the city police, so the garrison on the territory is not there. Why didn't you want to put on a medal creating, at last, an environmental police, certainly through the reorganization, reorganization and efficiency of the Forest Corps and through the absorption of the Provincial Police? We would have done a good thing which, among other things, is what Europe would also prescribe for us. Today we are faced with a situation of uncertainty. We will contribute to finding a solution that at least reduces the damage and preserves the function and unity of the Forestry Corps because it is really serious, it is a mockery. Everyone posted tweets saying that the environmental crime law was passed and then that's the result. As regards, in conclusion, the question of public management and municipal secretaries, the line of command returns. I have heard speeches saying that we politicians have been excluded, so, in fact, beyond the single role, we are trying to ensure that the autonomy of public administration is no longer guaranteed because, in fact, everything is placed under political control. Among other things, the decision to suppress municipal secretaries does not serve to control legality and is certainly not in favour of the control of legitimacy, which is the real emergency of this country. I shall conclude by saying that the operation on local public services is a very serious one. It was necessary to withdraw, to hold a specific debate, not including delegations on the local public. Above all, it was necessary to realize that in this House the Government and all of us had only one duty, namely to respect the will of the people, but once again you decided that the reordering of the public administration was only intended to put even more power and verticalize the process of the public administration itself and above all, as in the sign of constitutional reform, centralize the powers in the hands of the Head of Government. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u110	CHIAVAROLI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, the People's Area Group will vote in favour of the draft delegation law under consideration for the reorganisation of public administrations, because we are convinced that this delegation, and above all the exercise of the same through the legislative decrees that we are sure will be approved shortly, will contribute in a fundamental way to the reform path of the country to which this Government is working significantly. Unfortunately, in our country, public administration is perceived as distant, as a burden, as an obstacle, both by citizens and businesses for its long time, asphyxiating bureaucracy, farraginous and incomprehensible rules; above all, public administration is considered a source of waste and inefficiencies. To all this we believe that the bill delegation under consideration gives an answer and lays the foundations for finally in our country the public administration, as will happen with the exercise of the delegation and therefore with the decrees delegated, can be modern, transparent, digital, to the satisfaction of the needs of our citizens and our enterprises in the supply of the services and the answers. A part of the measure to which we are particularly attached is that which requires that we finally and decisively pass from the logic of the ex ante authorizations to that of the ex post controls and this happens in the part in which we detail the functioning of the certified signalling of beginning activity (SCIA). With the exercise of the delegation we will finally have a leadership of role selected by competition, that rewards the merit, that incentives the continuous training, the update, that promotes the reconciliation of the times of life and work. These are the rules to which we are attached, because finally they will include in the public administration teleworking mechanisms that will also allow workers and workers in the public administration to be able to reconcile work with their family commitments. A very appreciated part is also that in which the generational turnover is promoted, because we strongly believe that in the public administration the digital natives must enter that will really make it, as we want, an administration that is digital first. Finally, we very much appreciate the provisions concerning the use of resources through the reorganisation of participating companies, local public services. With these rules, resources will finally be used effectively and efficiently, and we believe that this is a duty we have towards citizens and businesses. Let us not forget that public resources are citizens. It is the resources that the latter deliver to the State through the payment of taxes and taxes, payment that is felt at this time of great crisis as particularly burdensome. In conclusion, we will vote in favour of this delegation law because it will give us a public administration and a state that are essential but authoritative, and that can finally contribute to freeing, and not hindering, the vitality of our society, our citizens, our businesses and our families. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u113	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, this is the final adoption of this bill. So, from now on, it's gonna be law and there's nothing left to do. This provision is like Mary Poppins' purse. Put a hand in and find a proxy. You still stick it in, it looks like there's no room left and you find another proxy. Delegate: this word that we would have wanted to disappear from the political panorama, that would become participation. Instead, the delegation was, and still is, the symbol of party failure. The delegation in white is what you demand from your voters, the one that allows you to introduce yourself to them with a program and then do anything else, by virtue of this delegation. You were elected, but you never said that you would abolish the State Forestry Corps; you were elected, but you did not say that you would abolish the provincial police, municipal secretaries and the participation of local authorities in participatory procedures. Otherwise you wouldn't be here. You had hidden your will to approve that horrible rule on school, health cuts, the dismantling of the Constitution. Otherwise, you wouldn't be here. You have hidden these wills from your constituents. The delegation is what the government today demands, indeed demands, from this Parliament, always under the blackmail of new elections. A blank proxy, like the ones you're used to and ask your voters. But public administration is the engine of this country, that gear that allows the laws to be implemented, without which the country does not work. We would therefore have expected a reform that would put the role of public administration at the centre. Instead, we found only cuts and rationalizations (which is synonymous with cuts). There is no talk of staff training, reorganization of roles, legitimate expectations of valorisation of merit. I deserve, a word so abused and never implemented. There is no talk of uniformity and homogeneity between all the various public administrations or of the introduction of resources into the public administration to make it more efficient. Efficiency that doesn't just mean certainty of the times, but it means doing things right. Because speed is often not a friend of good and protection of the citizen's interest. This delegation includes a number of points, which I shall mention. Reduction of the instruments of participation in the authorization processes (leggasi, conference of services), with constraints and stakes and a decision at all costs that goes to the detriment of the protection of the public interests and only in the interest of those who, perhaps, a work wants to realize it at all costs. Silence-consent between public administrations: it is a certainty for the citizen and the company that they have certain times, when in reality the citizen of this will not even notice. Rather, it is an excuse to de-responsibility and to allow tacit authorisation, without direct responsibility, by entrenching itself behind organisational deficiencies, of staff and of resources. From now on, there'll be no more of a handler. He will probably let himself run so that something happens tacitally, then saying that - sin - it could not be done and did not happen in time. And there will be no person responsible, by name and surname, who will sign and put his face in those decisions. One of the most controversial points is the abolition of the figure of the municipal secretary. He was a guarantee figure, a garrison of legality, so far released from the political leader, like the mayor, with whom he could have a third relationship. An arbiter of legality. It had to be enhanced, and not suppressed. There will be no restraint now at the bulimia of some mayor who will no longer have an arbiter of legitimacy. Goodbye to this historical figure. I still remember the words exchanged with some senators of the majority who, upon the arrival of this measure, had expressed their opposition to the abolition of this figure and now sit there, among the benches of those who will vote on this rule, this abolition. There are so many within the majority, yet they succumb to blackmail; the political blackmail of a government that is ready to send its majority back to the polls if it does not do what is required. Another crucial point, which affects one of the most important problems in this country, is the environment, safety. We are talking about the reorganization of police functions: we would have expected, in this case, interventions aimed at avoiding overlaps, in particular between the two bodies of Police and Carabinieri, with certain tasks and defined functions; instead, this delegation provides for the amalgamation of the State Forestry Corps in other police bodies: 8,000 men, the smallest body, the easiest to move, but also the most specialized one, distributed capillaryly throughout the territory; a garrison of legality of the environment that fails, a garrison of legality that was distributed even in the most distant and distant points of the city. While environmental crime is introduced into the code, on the other hand it eliminates that body that precisely that crime could have pursued as a priority. The unity has also been lost, that principle that we were able to insert into the Senate. It will be a dismemberment; let's not call it amalgamation, because "compromising" means taking and entering into another body; in reality this is a real dismemberment. Forest police officers will be distributed in a heterogeneous, random way; people who have made their work a choice of life (let's say: the people who work in the State Forestry Corps of their work have made a choice of life, unlike so many other police bodies) will be forced to go to another administration, because they have no alternative, and maybe they will be mortified behind a desk. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's what's gonna happen. The other garrison of legality of the environment, perhaps initially born a little 'bad, with some duplication and overlapping of functions, is the provincial police, that would have found its natural place within the forest police, also it is dismembered. People will go to the various public administrations, maybe to be city police officers, municipal police officers or municipal employees. Again, a mess. We would have expected the birth of an environmental police, a unitary and all-embracing body of all departments specialized in the protection of the environment. Unfortunately, environmental protection - it has been demonstrated on more than one occasion - is not the priority of this Government. Let's move on to dealing with participating companies. The Government has a white card to put its hand to the regulation of the participating companies and essential public services; to put hand, without stakes and without constraints, without certain directives, at the heart of the economy of this country, but also at the heart of the waste, at the "poltronificio" of this country. And all this should be left in the hands of this Government, this Presidency of the Council, which has shown that it is not free, that it is at the mercy of Confindustria, gambling lobbyists, tobacco multinationals and who knows who else? In the hands of this Government we will hand over the delegation in white to put hand to the participating companies. We're actually gonna put it in the hands of these funders. The last point, but not least, is Article 21: for me it is the apotheosis of the legislative loop, it is one of the absurd ones, which perhaps is still difficult - and it will be in the future - to explain. A practice and an element have been introduced that will probably be reused in the future. It simply means giving up: Parliament has produced delegated laws, the Government has not been able to make the implementing decrees and now Parliament gives the Government mandate to decide independently on which of those laws, for which it should have made and did not make the implementing decrees, can throw in the sponge and decide not to make the implementing decree. This is the juice of Article 21. Parliament has legislated, so all these delegations that you have approved today are rag paper, because another measure will come, perhaps in a year's time, in which another government will be given a mandate to cancel all the delegated laws for which the implementing decrees have not been made and which are not good for the new government. [[Applause from Senator Endrizzi.]] Well, we'll probably use it, too, when we're in the government, to erase the filth you've done at this point! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] To conclude and return to Mary Poppins and the original metaphor, the 80 euros, the announced abolition of the IMU and many other ads are the sugar: just a little sugar and the pill goes down, not to use other types of metaphor, much more vulgar. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u116	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Madam President, by saying that I will only make a few brief comments, I would ask you to allow me to give the text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). A reform like this could be decisive for the growth potential of a country system and its economy, but the reorganization of public administrations, as done by the government, is full of criticalities. Moreover, the impasse and chaos in the implementation of the reorder of the provinces inevitably cast a shadow on the implementation of the Madia reform. There are two critical points that we have identified: the jobs act, which is not implemented by the state, and the reform of the management. For these and other critical issues, we declare our vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u119	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is not a reform of public administration, but, as the title of the measure itself states, a mere reorganization of public administrations. There is no real reformist intent in the present delegation for reorganisation, which can only be done as a Constitution unchanged. On the other hand, the reform of the public administration should have been followed by constitutional reform, with a larger majority of Parliament in accordance with the Constitution. On the contrary, there is a simple routine maintenance of a building in partial reconstruction. Indeed, regulatory intervention is largely aimed at the mechanism for the operation and organisation of public administrations. Even if we want to secure the approval of all the delegations provided for in the text - a highly unlikely result - the influence on the lives of citizens and businesses will be imperceptible and irrelevant. It would have been appropriate to imagine a model of public administration that was in line with the most efficient models of organisation of public functions in the most advanced European countries. On the contrary, the bill does not propose any way of overcoming polycentrism and administrative fragmentation of competences. A genuine reform of services for citizens and businesses should have been undertaken, and a reform for policies and services should have been carried out. 11:37 a.m. (Follow PELINO). There is a clear risk that the offices will be maintained, subject to a mere reorganisation, but services will not be provided adapted to the changing needs of citizens and businesses. The necessary driving force is therefore lacking in a path of real liberalisation, which would reduce the number and weight of tasks, practices, authorisations and non-obstacles to the activities of citizens and businesses. In detail, there is a serious absence in the delegation of a clear direction towards the reduction of bodies and companies involved at state and territorial level. With regard to public management, our country is still short of the absence of a managerial culture, the lack of an exchange of professional experiences between the public and private sectors, which would be an aid to the culture of productivity absolutely not included in the delegation under consideration. In addition to the mechanisms of exchange between the public and private management, at least for the top roles, reward and penalty mechanisms must be put in place against employees of public administrations. In particular, managers, as is the case in the private sector, need to be assessed on the basis of the ability to manage precise budgets and quantifiable targets, while at the same time judging the quality of services rendered to citizens and businesses. Nor do we find in the text the setting of the essential levels of performance and the quality standards of services, as well as the costs and standard requirements to be met by public administrations throughout the country. All this would have facilitated the elimination of differences in the quality of the service provided by the public administration. Indicators should be introduced and used, in practice and not only in theory, to assess whether the public administration provides good services to the public. The draft law lacks a link between reform actions and methods of setting targets and measuring the results of what the public administration is trying to achieve (with the obligation to report periodically to Parliament). A reform of the public administration must be considered an investment for Italy, in the same way as countries such as Germany or France which see the efficiency of their public services as one of the foundations for their further development, with the assumption of a general cost reduction. With the implementation of this delegation, however, the public administration will continue to remain a cost not only for the enormous burden it imposes with the incompressible expenses (almost always attributable to the poor conduct of the levels of services rendered by the public administration), compared to the entire budget of the State, but as a bureaucratic weight on the value of the economic activities of the private ones. In fact, the text of the draft law does not (at least not explicitly) place the saving of expenditure among the objectives of the reform. The text states that savings will come from certain provisions, but that they remain unquantifiable and unprovable. Finally, the suppression of the Forest remains a sad chapter for the stories of the Forces of the order of this country. It is a choice that we have been opposed from the beginning. Only positive note in this regard is the acceptance of the agenda at first signing Romans with which we have committed the Government to assess that the State Forestry Corps can transit through the Carabinieri's Arm, the police force that represents the best organizational and functional model to guarantee services in the fields of environmental protection and agri-food safety and not to disperse the professionalism and expertise of the State Forestry Corps. We can therefore summarise the substantial ineffectiveness of this measure as it lacks the main objective it should achieve: to make a genuine reform of the public administration. For all these reasons, I declare the Group of Forza Italia voting against. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u122	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, in one of his most famous and perhaps most disturbing tales, Franz Kafka describes the citizen before the law. There is a farmer who arrives and stops in front of a door beyond which there is a guardian: behind there is a great light and the farmer asks to be able to access the law. The guardian says, no. The farmer stops and waits thinking that later he will be able to pass. Times and days go by. The peasant repeats this imploring question, but the solemn guardian with a sharp nose and the tartar beard continues to repeat: no. The narration develops by recounting the fatigue, the begging and also the attempts of corruption that the poor farmer makes to be able to access. In short, exhausted by the fatigue of years, the view is lowered until, at a certain point, the farmer renounces and dies before the door of the law. I believe that many of our fellow citizens feel in the condition of this farmer in front of the door of the law. Everyone should be able to access the law, the services of public administration and the benefits of the State, but there is always a guardian who stands before saying: no, you cannot pass. The draft law in question seeks to reverse this perception of public administration and to put the citizen and businesses at the centre, making them not poor peasants subject to the authority of the State that decides unilaterally if yes or no, if you can enter and access the light or if you have to stay out in the dark. The purpose of this bill is to make the citizen involved in administrative processes. The aim is to convey a more friendly vision and participation of citizens and businesses in the construction of the common good. From this point of view, the focus of the measure is on the citizen, rather than on the structure and provisions, which are numerous. I mention just a few of them because, as has been mentioned several times, the bill is extremely complex and articulated. I am talking, for example, about digital citizenship, the rules and certain times that are recognized for the bureaucratic process, the simplification of iter, the immediate access to information and documents by each, the digital and online payments, the reform of the service conference and the great theme of silence-consent. In other words, what I believe should be understood is that we are trying to shift attention from procedure to objectives. To date the procedure has been the referee behind whom the guardian was hiding because, following pointily, meticulously and carefully the procedure, the task of the public administrator was exhausted. What we are trying to do today is to draw attention to the objective of public administration action. The simplification is therefore functional to the provision of a service and of a result and also to a greater responsibility, because there is nothing that reduces responsibility like the procedure. In fact, once I followed the procedure pointfully and meticulously, perhaps without having to pay attention to the times, I did what I had to do and am totally exempt from all responsibility. Patience if then the result we wanted is not achieved. It is precisely by focusing on the issue of the objective of administrative action that the managers and staff of the public administration are given full responsibility. It is a great challenge, also cultural, and a great responsibility that today are proposed to the public administration, making the citizens participate in a process of modernization of our country. The theme of the evaluation of managers and staff is exactly instrumental to this: reward those who are able to produce results and help the citizen to exceed that threshold that I have described before, not rewarding, instead, the behaviours of dereliction of those who hide in the greyness of the norms and of the faldons. There is nothing like a large pile of faldons in order to hide those interests, sometimes gray and dark, which unfortunately the public administration has often shown that it wants to cultivate instead of the public interest. We are of the idea that a simpler procedure makes corruption more difficult, because it lurks in those falcons. The possibility of direct access to information and control by citizens is the best medicine and antidote to corruption. This measure gives great importance and importance to the issue of transparency, of the Freedom of Information Act: more information in the hands of citizens means involving them in the control of the action of public administration, obtaining widespread control and more participation and democracy. This reform will therefore produce positive results not only in the immediate, but in the medium term, because it will enable us all to acquire a more active and vigilant mentality and attitude of citizenship. I believe that this reform is also cultural and not just organizational. As I said, this is a great opportunity for public leadership, for the best part of it, which wants to be the protagonist of the process of modernization of our country. It is not only companies that are involved in the efficiency of public administration, as it is also appropriate to do with the liberalisation paths we have discussed today, but it is also the public administration that can play a role of impetus, support and guidance of private activity. We must put in place a logic of partnership between the public and the private, in which the choice between a solution that gives greater importance to the public dimension or the private dimension must not be put back to the a priori assumption of ideological axioms. It makes no sense to say that we must confront the public with the private sector: it is a statement that has been made in today's debate, but that frankly I find quite grotesque. We must seek cooperation with a view to achieving and pursuing our country's strategic objectives. Today Italy competes internationally and we must succeed in establishing a system between companies and public administration; no one can think that we can prevail if we do not succeed in creating this synthesis. This is also an opportunity to redesign the perimeter of public administration and actually seize public interests. I do not understand how, in the 21st century, public interest can continue to be opposed to the private sector, if it is true that today only Italy can prevail and compete in a globalised economy. I shall conclude, Mr President, by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Pagliari, who has been careful and has followed this long process from the outset. I also thank Minister Madia and President Finocchiaro and declare the Democratic Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u123	Mr President, I would like to speak because I listened carefully to the explanation of vote made...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u124	Senator Lucidi, we're about to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u125	LUCIDES (M5S). Can I make a comment on Senator Cociancich's surgery? [[Comments from PD Groups]] and AP (NCD-UDC)). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can make an explanation of vote in dissent from your Group. LUCIDES (M5S). I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that and give you the floor. LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to draw attention to what Senator Cociancich has said, asking him to hand over his version of Kafka's story to the Presidency, because it is far from my point of view. Based on her knowledge of that story, I am very surprised that she and you of the Democratic Party may have reformed the school, for example. You are destroying the public administration, the Forestry Corps, the superintendents, as you have already done with the work, the Constitution, the Senate and the Provinces, which you have abolished but which, on the other hand, still exist. [[Comments from PD Groups]] and AP (NCD-UDC)). Then I wonder what there is kafkiano in all of this, if not your behavior. You speak of citizenship when you know very well that you have put under the sole of your shoes the Aahrus convention. CARDINALI (PD). But where is the dissent from your Group? LUCIDES (M5S). There are no citizens for you. Shame on you, Senator Cociancich. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). But where is the dissenting statement? CARDINALI (PD). He's in dissension from himself. Montevecchi (M5S). Shut up, clown.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u126	We have understood that this is not a literary dispute at the level of the Academy of the bran, but only a political fact. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. Senator Lucidi, you should vote in dissent from your group, according to your statement. (The vote was followed). (Some PD Senators point out that Senator Lucidi's vote does not differ from that of the Group). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u129	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to thank very quickly all those who have spoken in this work, from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to the Minister, to the whole House, for we have been protagonists of this measure because of a virtuous circuit in which we have been able to discuss the substance without prejudice. I would also like to conclude with the pride of being rapporteur for a measure which has taken on the challenge of change and which this challenge has taken on, certainly without certainty, but not in an imprudent or improvised way. I wish I had heard in this House not words of pure defeatism, that are those of those who do not have alternative ideas, but words of merit confrontation on a challenge that belongs to everyone. [[Senator Puglia's comments.]] I would like to understand where the 5 Star Movement read this reform, which reform commented the 5 Star Movement, maybe it is a different movie [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senators Puglia, Cioffi and Santangelo]] , against which he wanted to continue his battle, which is not a battle for Italy, but a battle for defeatism, that defeatism that is only a land of conquest of this party. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic comments and applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u130	Senator Lucidi, I call you to order, as is my duty, in relation to your vote, because the Presidency cannot be mocked by a false dissenting statement. [[Applause from the PD Group. Protests from the M5S Group.]] Let's be clear about that. AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you! They're making fun of you! We've been fooled for two years! SANTANGELO (M5S). You're so small! You're so small! (Senator Santangelo shows a paper ball.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I do not allow you to offend anyone, not even the presidency. What does the ball have to do with it right now? When we discover the balls, we eliminate them, as President Calderoli did previously.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u131	The next item is: Information by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport on the recent serious inconveniences at Leonardo da Vinci International Airport in Fiumicino. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have five minutes available. I call the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Delrio.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since 6 May last, Fiumicino airport has been affected by a number of partial accidents, which have caused serious disruption to users, traders and airlines. About the fire of 29 July last in a part of the land adjacent to the airport, the ENAC has acquired the operating reports received from the airport detachment of the fire department, from the airport management company Aeroporti di Roma and from the ENAV of Fiumicino. The analysis of the documentation transmitted showed that for about two hours the runway dedicated to take-offs and the runway normally dedicated to landings remained inoperative, due to the lack of fire protection and then the interference of the Canadair and the helicopters intervened to control the fire. Until 16:17 it was not possible to use runway 2, in the opposite direction to the fire, due to the tail wind that prevented aircraft from taking off safely. The operations were carried out, with significant limitations, from 14:17 to about 19:00. During the limited operation, a total of 95 landings and 46 take-offs were carried out. On the day of July 29, a total of 1,013 movements were made between take-offs and landings, for a total of 141,132 passengers transported and 22 incoming flights and 29 departing flights were cancelled. The most obvious criticality emerged at the end of the emergency, when it became necessary to return the port of call operations to normal after the congested aircraft occurred in the previous hours on the airport. Among other things, the fire has entered a complex operating environment, due to important works involving the stopover, in particular the renovation of runway 3 and the simultaneous opening with limitations of the central subsidiary track. In addition, there are works in progress also for the reduction of the number of the parking spaces for the reconfiguration and the widening of the squares, as well as the realization of the new terminal T3 and the new pier C. This work, while taking into account the operational planning of the summer season, is entirely compatible with normal operations, but obviously involves less flexibility of the entire airport system when critical situations such as those which occurred on 29 July occur. To the criticality of the fire has been added a weather event that, in fact, has prevented for about an hour the take-off of the aircraft in the opposite direction to the fire, because - as I have already said - of the wind of libeccio that did not allow to respect the limits of safety of the operations of take-off, because of the wind in tail. The post-fire critical situation was aggravated by cancellations carried out largely by the Vueling carrier and amplified by an interruption of electricity occurred in the morning of July 30. To support the passengers and to limit to the maximum the inconveniences, on the days 29 and 30 July - as reported from ENAC - the following actions have been put in place: use in the terminals of inspectors ENAC for informative activities and support; increase of the number of employees of Airports of Rome and Alitalia for the management, both of the information, and of the flows of the passengers; distribution by the airport manager of water to all the passengers; institution of a task force for the management of the baggage. It has also been provided assistance from airlines to passengers for re-protection in case of cancellation of the flight (hotel, meals and so on) with replacement, by the airport manager for the carrier Vueling, to re-protect the passengers with charter flight and transfer to the hotel of the same. All night long, the airport dining facilities remained open. Despite this, the inconveniences that have occurred have been very serious and serious and we have tried to identify the possibilities of improvement and work. A number of areas have been identified with ENAC and the airport operator. Firstly, there was a need to identify improvements in fire service equipment and procedures to ensure the continuity of the airport fire control. As I said, part of the fire department went to put out the outside fire so it was not possible to guarantee safety on incoming and departing flights. Secondly, there was a need to identify improvements in the orderly management of departures in port congestion situations, as well as greater coordination of all stakeholders (Hander, ENAV, airlines): all must of course be coordinated to a greater extent in critical situations such as the one that emerged on 29 July and the following days. With regard to the latter aspect, an overall improvement of the handling services is expected as a result of the European race, in progress, which will theoretically end at the end of the year, in order to limit to three the operators present on the port of call. It is considered that this limitation could lead, in the medium term, both to an improvement in the quality of the service rendered and to a more effective coordination of the activities by the airport operator. These events have however evidenced an organizational fragility that involves some operators active in the airport of Fiumicino, to which must necessarily be added a structural weakness that derives from twenty-year delays in the investments carried out. As you know, in fact, the program contract was signed only in December 2012 and the five-year regulatory 2012-2016 started in fact only in 2013, with a year of delay. Today we pay obviously the lost time: over twenty years of absence in the planning, programming and execution of the interventions, against an increased airport traffic - and in anticipation of constant increase - that have led to a paralysis of the airport development, which requires a necessary acceleration in order to fill the structural deficit of an international hub that enlivens today, between departures and arrivals, over 40 million people per year. We must therefore combine security and efficiency, ensuring that the management companies also put in place all the necessary measures to this end. This has been the object of our interlocations in these days, precisely to stimulate a rapidization of the investments previewed To date ADR, Airports of Rome, has undertaken to recover the gap not only in order to eliminate the delay in the realization of the investments previewed in the contract of program, but also to carry out at the same time all the investments that they will consider necessary in order to guarantee a better reception and safety inside the airport of Fiumicino. In 2014 353 million euros of investments were made, more than twice as much as in previous years: this is the result of the programme agreement that my predecessor has rightly stimulated and put into operation. In 2015, investments of more than 300 million were planned, compared with the original 220 million, and in 2016 454 million compared to the 219 initially planned. As you can see, there is a huge increase in planned investments to cope with infrastructure delays. With the investments of 2016 we will have an increase of more than 135 million, combined in the first five years, and we will bring to one billion and 120 million euros the investments originally planned in 980 million. Therefore, not only compared to the previous five years there is a sharp increase in investments, but in this contract we have even increased the demand for investments by the manager. By 2016, with the installation of the extra Schengen area, the F boarding area, the T3 front body (formerly Pier C) will be completed as important works, with an increase in the area of 130,000 square meters and an additional capacity on the boarding infrastructure of five million passengers per year, including a new baggage management system. We are already talking about planning until 2020, which will lead Fiumicino to reach international standards A and B also in the Schengen area. The objective is to reach a capacity of approximately 100 million passengers through the modernization and completion of Fiumicino Sud and the subsequent design and realization of Fiumicino Nord in line with the forecasts of traffic in the medium term. However, while waiting for these investments to take place, we need a series of reflections and actions that are essential to managing the present and future of an airport of strategic importance, for an infrastructure that has a significant impact on GDP with its operation. A sound action plan to improve the quality of services should consider direct management of critical activities, increased operational flexibility, new handling of luggage, reduced passport control times, improved quality of connecting services to and from the airport, both on-road and on-road. Many of these actions are already at the centre of the airport plan that you have already examined and approved. For us, we need to put the passenger at the centre of the process, ensuring that the passenger's rights are respected. People are able to understand when unpredictable emergencies occur; what they cannot understand is why they are abandoned without information and without assistance. That is why we have tried to ascertain the responsibilities of the inconveniences to the passengers also caused by the carriers. It is therefore necessary to reason immediately - and this is what we have already done in these days and we will continue to do with dedicated technical working groups - on the strengthening of the services, in particular those concerning the fire department, and on the garrison of the surrounding areas at the airport. To this end it is necessary to start a closer interlocation with all the institutions involved, starting from the City of Fiumicino, the Metropolitan City and the Region, in order to increase the vigilance of the places. To this end, in the next few days I will convene a working table with the administrations involved in the next few days. I also believe that there is a need for a collective commitment involving airlines in respect of passenger rights, airport service management companies in the planning and planning of appropriate measures to ensure quality standards of services. The Government will take charge of an effective coordination of all institutional entities, starting with ENAC, on which we are vigilant, and which in turn has responsibility of supervision over airport managers, in order to identify all the solutions that can allow, in the presence of this massive plan of investments, in the meantime, to meet the increased needs of the airport of Fiumicino. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u133	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Infrastructure and the transports. Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u134	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his detailed report, but the problem seems more complex to me. In fact, no great country can afford to drag for a long time the situation in which its capital and its most important airport are located, because this will end up causing irreparable image damage to the entire country system. We are the third European economy and such a series of managerial inability inevitably penalizes also the recognized ability of Italians to know how to improvise in the face of emergencies. We thought we had put behind us the dark years of the savage strikes, which looked very close to real sabotages, sobbing transport and chaos that arose as a system. None of this: the events of the last few weeks have brought us all back to a crude reality. Since May, when the first fire broke out at Terminal 3, it has been an uninterrupted succession of large and small paralysis up to the fires in the nearby pine forest, perhaps arson, and the new electric blackout. Well, a government that has made the modernization of Italy its mantra, should not have afford, for example, the theater of the guerrilla gone stage between Alitalia and society Aeroporti of Rome, that they would have the duty to work together for the internationalization of the port of call. The problem - I don't say it, the mayor of Fiumicino has denounced it - is that at the moment inside the airport there is no investment, except for the interventions on the slopes. Yet in 2012 the Monti government had entered into a new service contract with Aeroporti di Roma which provided for an increase in tariffs against an investment plan approved in 2013 and never applied. We talk about 1.8 billion for three new terminals, automate the current system throughout the terminal, build a monorail to connect the terminals with each other and with long-term parking, normal things in all the great airports of the world. Instead, it was just about cashing in and the system is collapsing. Do we want foreign companies to delete Fiumicino from their radar? At the end of the year the Jubilee will open and in what condition do we get there? The tour operators have already revised to the decrease the estimates on the flows tied to this great event and therefore we risk to lose a great flywheel of the resumption for the territory, is for the turnover that determines that for the transport goods. Let us not forget, then, that Fiumicino - as you said, Minister - is expected to reach 50 million passengers by 2022 and that Rome is running for the Olympic Games in 2024. But with credentials do we introduce ourselves? Mafia capital, crisis of the Ama and the Atac, the continuous scandals that have hit the public administration, the change of the third city council in little more than a year and a half are all disastrous business cards that not only damage Rome, but the entire country. And it can't be just the airport management company's fault. Fiumicino is only the tip of the iceberg, Rome is now a political case. These are words of the Roman Observer, and those who govern Italy and Rome should treasure them. And above all do a long examination of conscience. [[Applause from the AL-A Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u135	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagnoncelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u136	Mr President, Minister, I do not want to focus on individual facts, on confusion and discomfort, or on efficiency and readiness to deal with the single emergency. The situation has now become a problem of public order because from that 7th May in the airport of Fiumicino, the largest airport in Italy with more than 160,000 passengers a day, has triggered a domino effect of calamities that for more than three months, one after the other, seem to come down with an almost cruel fatality. Last, five days ago, there was a new fire that semi-destroyed the pine forest of Focene, behind the airport: the smoke affected three tracks resulting in paralysis of the activities of the same for several hours. The fault would be a pile of garbage left on the edge of the road, provided that - instead - the origin is not arson, as the attorney of the Republic of Civitavecchia has not yet excluded. There is also those who anticipate the scenario of a real sabotage, aimed to create serious damages and consequences for the operativity of the port of call. Just two days after the fire, when he still resented the consequences of the fire with suppressed flights, severe delays, explosions of anger by the passengers and the stopover transformed into a bivouac for the waiting travelers, arrived, like a lightning lightning to the serene sky, the most total darkness: the airport remained in the darkness, for about twenty minutes, due to a blackout, with the monitors off and the passengers, again, in panic. In all this, the staff of service has found themselves to have to face the unsustainable situation of the angry passengers, to reason, so much that to terminal 3 has touched the fight. What about the personnel who have a certain point has been escorted and defended by the police and Carabinieri, because of the exasperation of the 200 passengers for yet another postponement of a flight that in the end left with only 24 hours delay? In short, for months Roman and foreign citizens have been helpless in the situation of inextricable chaos that afflicts the eternal city. Perhaps to be more precise it must be said that it is from the times of Julius Caesar that there are serious problems to the road, but it is necessary to consider on the one hand the case of Fiumicino, in which every day there is to hope not a new misfortune, and on the other the conditions of public transport, that for more than thirty days make the life impossible to the Romans by now exhausted and distrusted. It seems that the Capital is no longer able to provide any kind of vector transport service, which means that it is not even able to provide its paying users with the minimum performance that, although it has always been inefficient, always wanting and poor, at least until a few months ago still managed to guarantee. It is thought that, with a view to enhancing quality standards, essential public services are one of the currencies for the exchange of trust with citizens who benefit from those services in terms of productivity, optimization of time and resources. On the contrary, from an inefficient system it follows that instead of services, there are often, for infrastructure, misservices that result in damage to the economy: in the case of Rome, in particular, they result in enormous damage to tourism flows and the resulting employment. In the same way, the main airport is the business card of our Capital and as such it should represent its productivity and dynamism. Perfectly in line with these objectives, in order to facilitate the ever more incandescent situation in the airport of Rome Fiumicino, 24 July has held a strike of 24 hours of the staff Alitalia adhere to the union ANPAC, just a few days before the reopening of the dock D that has reported the full operating ability of the port of call after the limitations caused from the fire of beginning May. In the scenario that I have briefly outlined and of which we are all, unfortunately, more than aware, I am certainly not the only one to ask myself whether you, Minister, do not believe that the continuing problems of Fiumicino airport and the disservices of the City of Rome are children of bad luck, or that there is a link that links these standards of inefficiency (which have now reached a level of unsustainableness that has become impossible to stem) with the incomplete and insufficient remedial measures that have been put in place so far. In the City of Rome, with its hypertrophic budgets, there is a similar situation, even worse. Here those who manage are not the private in concession, but the City with its companies. The municipal budget exceeds 6 billion annually, almost all of current expenditures: capital expenditures, from 2013 to 2015, decreased by 34 percent. Does it not seem to you, Minister, that we have now reached a point very close to the collapse of the whole system? A few days ago, Minister, in the Commission, I expressed my sympathy for the pragmatism that you have shown in addressing the issue of the plan of airports of national interest and giving a sign of reversal of the trend in pursuing the dream book of public works. Predicting a unique hub on Fiumicino is certainly in line with the logic and strategic common sense of programming, but this is not enough. Therefore, Minister, we Italian Conservatives and Reformists appreciate your pragmatism, but we hope that it will also be accompanied by a decisive interventionism, if necessary, of past memory. [[Applause from Senator Zuffada.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u137	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u138	Mr Minister, we do not appreciate your pragmatism at all, not least because we have not seen it at all. We have heard from him an information that nothing else is that the reading of the articles published in the newspapers. Frankly, we would have expected a little more content on the part of the Minister of Infrastructure than simply to bring the news here to the Senate Chamber. All this, Minister, is more and more like one of the classic Italian films, where something happens, someone complains, someone else remedys and somehow always goes on, putting a piece in it: there is no manager, no one declares himself responsible, no one is identified as responsible. And I'm not talking about the fires in the woods on the side of Fiumicino, although it would be interesting to know how many fires have occurred there in recent years. If you do not know, I will tell you: several dozen; it was not the first and I fear it will not be the last if it is not remedied, because it is clear that there is a situation of bad government and, worse, a situation of crime that must be cut off. Then there are also other questions. Who manages this airport area? Just the city administrators? No, there's also airport management. And it will not escape, (because the web is much more democratic than, often and willingly, the Government) that today to administer Airports of Rome there are characters anything but secondary. Fabrizio Palenzona is the president and the managing director is Lorenzo Lo Presti. Di Palenzona we like to remember the current curriculum: vice president of Unicredit, member of the board of directors of Mediobanca, president of Aviva Italia Assicurazioni, president of Aeroporti of Rome, president of Assaeroporti, honorary president of Confratrasporti, president of AISCAT, president of AISCAT Servizi, honorary president of Asecap, member of the board of directors of the ABI, national president of Faiservice, councilor of administration of the Fondazione Cassa di risparimento di Alessandria, member of the executive committee of the Junta of the Industrialists of Rome and more. On the CEO, Lorenzo Lo Presti remembers that he is president of Telepass and president of AD Moving SpA. Perhaps by naming more concrete people with less "cadreghe" to cover you could have a little more efficiency in managing these airports. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] It is not in fact simply in the curriculum and in how many "cadreghe" they deal with the ability, but in the confrontation and in the ability to solve the problems. You have just said, Minister, that the airports in Rome have problems that go back decades, but we are still here today to hear from you that we need investment, that we need to speed up the investment plan because this airport must start at 100 million passengers per year. Minister, 100 million passengers a year when out of Rome airport there are abusive taxis ready to take them on board? These are the paradoxical situations that the airport of the capital is currently experiencing. Let us not overlook the fact that in the 8th Commission, public works, the national plan of airports was approved, with the North League voting against, because it has neither head nor tail: it is a national plan that provides for more hubs, more poles, which gives importance to the airports only with the attention of those who govern not to lose their votes, where there are airports that could no longer be the object of customers. Mr President, let us remind the Minister, who perhaps has not yet noticed, that in this country in the past years rivers of money and investments have been allocated to an airport, that of Malpensa, which has now been forgotten. I say to the Minister, and through him to the Government: have the courage to desecrate the report sent by the three prefects to Franco Gabrielli. I am talking about the relationship in which the malavitous relations of Mafia Capitale are incorporated. Because nothing, Mr President, prevents us at this moment, having the secreted report, from seeing Mafia Capital even within these managements. In fact, the airports of Rome have a bad management that cannot be attributable only to the inability of the people. In those days, in fact, in there they acted capable operators, who were not defended by their leaders, and unable operators, who were instead hidden from their own responsibilities. This is another aspect of Mafia Capital. Minister, take the secret away from that report and prove that there are no collusive interests with Mafia Capitale and Fiumicino airport. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u139	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u140	Mr President, Minister, on 7 May, at 00.06, a spark behind an electric panel at a refreshment point inside terminal 3 of Fiumicino's Leonardo da Vinci airport triggered a fire; a spark kept the capital's air links in check, simultaneously causing the paralysis of the other means of transport in the area for fourteen consecutive hours. Airports of Rome (ADR) then communicates that the airport of Fiumicino will remain entirely closed until 14. The road police close the main roads to the airport to isolate the airport and access only the means of rescue. In particular, the Roma-Fiumicino, in the direction of the airport, and the junction of the Roma-Civitavecchia. In short, Minister, a refrigerator has isolated the largest Italian airport from Europe and the world. It is claimed that there has been no delay in terms of intervention time. Of course, if we are based on the current structures, there is no doubt. The mayor of Fiumicino, Esterino Montino, said that the damage is enormous. To restore the situation it will take months: terminal 3 must be completely redone; the part of the crossings for the boardings is reduced to ashes; the fire could have endangered the very stability of the structure. Meanwhile, the prosecutor investigates for a manslaughter fire against unknown persons, as well as for the company entrusted with the maintenance of air conditioning systems at Fiumicino airport. You yourself, Minister, have made a survey in terminal 3 environments. Despite having appreciated the effort that they have completed the management company and all the operators in order to restore as soon as possible the operating ability of the port of call, come to light serious criticalities, several times put in evidence from administrators and operators. Among these, the concatenation of the intense activities of terminal 3, that could have been restructured only after the opening of terminal C, where however the intense activities, after swinging events, are blocked for ten years. In addition to the infrastructural problems, there are those of the safety of workers. The danger highlighted by the union is that of asbestos dust which could have been deposited after the fire. After the fire, in fact, dioxin concentrations in the Gate D area are, according to our sampling, thirty times higher than the World Health Organisation's limit for a population not normally exposed. This is what the Director of the Environment Department of the Higher Institute of Health said at a hearing in the Senate: "For us, the airport is not an industrial environment" - rightly says the director - while ADR considers it as such and considers the values to be within the limits. Last 1° june 2015, always Left, Ecology and Freedom of Fiumicino asks the Government to take the opportunity of the incident of the fire at the airport Leonardo da Vinci in order to create a Commission of inquiry that verify the last twenty years of management of Airports of Rome and the role of the majority partner. On 7 July, Civitavecchia's prosecutor gives three months to comply with security and asks for urgent and rapid action on the airport: it does so on the basis of the fire department report, filed on 11 June. What has happened is once again the need to tackle seriously the problem of the government of our intercontinental airport, real and unique hub, Minister, thinking first of all of restructuring and modernization, in order to recover the gap that has accumulated compared to the major ports of call of Europe and the world in terms of infrastructure and passenger safety. This is therefore the point, because the priority issue for citizens and local associations - I would like to take the example of the "Off-track" committee - is, first and foremost, that of the quality of airport services. We don't need any more leads, resulting in huge environmental damage. The real problem, as evidenced by the recent fire and the disastrous consequences it has caused, is the management of a structural and infrastructural endowment now obsolete and inadequate to the management even of the ordinary. A plan of action and investment in terms of renewal of existing infrastructure and means, workers' safety and passenger services should therefore be firmly put in hand. Optimizing, the Heathrow airport moves, with less surface of slopes, millions of passengers and goods more than Fiumicino. It is therefore necessary, for example, to separate the low cost, close to the city, as is the case in all the metropolis of Europe and the world and, therefore, to include those quality services in the hub. We arrive at 29 July, when at 12:00... PRESIDENT. Finish it, Senator. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). ... all this has led to the dramatic hours that have been experienced. We are on the watch of the extraordinary Jubilee: Fiumicino is the gateway to the area, but it is the door to Rome before an international event of this kind, given the characteristic of the millions of pilgrims who will come: the business card, therefore, of Italy compared to the world. This is the dimension that we must support, not abandoning administrations, as has often been done, starting with Fiumicino, investing in quality and technologies in use in other European and international hubs. It is necessary to clean the commercial bazaar and optimize and free up the internal spaces, creating connections on iron that also free the vast parking areas that consume a critical and fragile territory, making rather intelligent connections and adequate and modern structures, recovering the wasted soil. With regard to the enhancement of security and the structures in charge, I have read in the launches of your recent and important statements on rights, services and appropriate tools. On this we are and are ready for comparison and work. An extraordinary plan, however, serves only for Fiumicino and also with respect to the general plan we surpass the logic of rain resources and for all (some airports are also called "international" only and exclusively for political conveniences). If we maintain that perverse policy, which is based on speculation and soil consumption, we will harm Fiumicino, Rome and the extraordinary event of the Jubilee, which we will oppose with all our strength. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u141	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u142	Mr President, Minister, after the accident of 7 May last at Terminal C, this further fire, this incident really did not want us, because it disturbs the image of our most important airport: a strategic hub, the Roman one, where millions of passengers pass, that often for the first time arrive in Italy; confronting these inefficiencies surely undermines the image of our whole nation. The incident was immediately tamed, thanks to the intervention of canadair aircraft and three helicopters, in collaboration with the Forestal. Luckily, the road and the clean reclamation canal and the new bike path were firebreakers at the fire. Alitalia has quantified in 80 million euros the damages suffered as a result of the fire flared up. The recent reopening of terminal 3 has in fact decreed the end of the emergency phase, but not that of numerous problems and limitations that still have heavy effects on the airport operations. Alitalia is also the only airline to have its own hub in Fiumicino and are Alitalia's about 50 percent of the total airport flights. The same company is determined to obtain compensation for the damages suffered, also because its recovery plan is extremely complex in one of the most competitive sectors in Italy and in the world. It was found that Fiumicino Airport is not yet an adequate infrastructure to serve as a hub for companies with strong growth ambitions. The problems of Fiumicino have been born for years and years of inadequate investments and planning and are now structural. We therefore want less attention to finance and more attention to the market and to the needs of passengers. The relationship with low-cost companies and the levels of services offered by low-cost companies should also be assessed. They accuse the Fiumicino airport of being inefficient in the handling services, but it is clear that inside our airport you have to host companies that have enough structure so that the services can also work because, sometimes, the inefficiency of the companies inevitably falls also on that of the airport, which is often also unblamable compared to the inefficiencies of the low cost companies. I quote, for example, Vueling who, especially in these days, has created many inconveniences to its customers. Alitalia has already announced that, if Fiumicino continues to focus on low cost companies and mediocre services, it will be forced to move its growth elsewhere. This is unimaginable and clearly we invite the Government to implement everything that is possible to prevent this from happening, because Alitalia cannot but be combined with the city and airport of Rome. It is unthinkable that the main Italian hub is at the mercy of accidents or, worse, of criminals, assuming that these accidents are arson. This is the second time that Fiumicino is brought to his knees and this situation is intolerable and will not have to be repeated. More staff are needed for repairs and maintenance of the port of call; constant and continuous supervision of all equipment is required. ADR must compensate for the shortcomings of some handlers in difficulty. It is also necessary to accelerate on the expansion of the airport for a total restyling that must be ready, possibly, by 2016. It is also asked the Government to evaluate the change of the top management of the company that manages the airport of Rome, in addition to the predisposition of a task force in view of the jubilee in order to avoid further damage of image in the world to Italy and its managerial abilities. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u143	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scibona. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u144	Mr President, Minister, what you have described is an apocalyptic scenario of war. It is not permissible for a hub of Fiumicino's reach to suffer everything you have said. With reference to the fire at the T3 - which, for goodness' sake, is not his competence and to foresee it is not in his abilities - certainly the safety could be better. What he actually said about being transparent with regard to information to the public, about the fact that people were dismayed and did not know where to go is true and could be improved, as on the one hand, also alarmisms and, on the other, the voices trying to suspend certain judgments. As far as pine forest fires are concerned, it is indeed a particular area. Given that it is bordering on an international hub, it should be treated slightly better: it should be monitored more closely. Surely firefighters do what they can, also because with the cuts you continue to do they have limited means. As for the black out, in fact it was short, but with the systems in safety that must exist in a structure like Fiumicino did not even have to be short: they had to intervene immediately the support structures and prevent it from blocking everything. One thing you did not say and that, in my opinion, is very serious - like these - is the success on July 10, when a Cessna 172 landed not seen on a track fortunately closed. At a time when the safety of the state is decanted an airplane - for Christ's sake, it was small - can you afford to land in Fiumicino without anyone realizing it? Can you see it when it's already on the ground? This event is very special: I would like to hear what you have to say about it. The airport plan - we have said - is an open book for the electoral needs of colleagues and certainly is not adapted to the needs of a transport system that wants to be up to a great country as we want or we paint that we would like it to be. As I said in the Commission, we should think much more about transport logistics and, therefore, have an integrated system between the various modes of transport, also in order to prevent something from happening in the event of an emergency. Speaking of emergency, you, Minister Delrio, spoke of parking, but from what world is world in the summer you avoid work on the highway and in the transport systems because there is greater influx of users. I cannot understand how it is possible that in Fiumicino, the international hub and the non plus ultra-Italianity in the air, there is the conjunction of construction sites in the summer period. I really can't understand that. It's all a "becoming." You, Minister Delrio, have a great deal of work to do with the transport system and will have realised this in this short period of time at the Dicastery. This work must also be done quickly because, right now, with the Jubilee at the doors, we must take into account many different situations. Mr. Minister, I don't ask you any questions, but you might want to do it yourself. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u145	Senator Matteoli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u146	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Delrio, for his report on the heavy inconveniences that have occurred in recent weeks at the main Italian airport: these inconveniences have gone around the world, causing damage to the image of our country. I do not want to appear minimalist with respect to the unacceptable effects that have been determined for the users, but I do not think there are doubts about the singularity of the numerous and close happenings, starting from the fire that has affected a vast area of terminal 3 of Fiumicino last May 7, until the burning that last week has concerned the area adjacent to the port of call and the interruption of the supply of electricity last, fortunately, a few tens of minutes. These events have caused very serious problems for the entire management apparatus, by its complex nature for an airport of the size of the "Leonardo da Vinci." Nor am I going to dwell on the inexplicable delays due also to the double seizure of justice and the slowness to know the outcome of the examinations on the toxicity of the places concerned from the fire of restoration of terminal 3. These delays have brought out the Italian atavica inability to carry out prompt and urgent interventions. I think this is a good opportunity for the Government to try to make a breakthrough on Fiumicino airport, addressing with due resolve the issue - central believe - of the adaptation, modernization and expansion of the Roman port of call. Airports in Rome (ADR) states that they have allocated sufficient resources and that it is necessary to proceed. Moreover, in the first six months of the year at the Italian airports operated by ADR there was an increase in passengers of 7.2 percent. It is true that this issue has been at the attention of the Government for several years and that, beyond the good intentions of both the concessionaire Aeroporti of Rome, and of ENAC, and of the same Executives that have succeeded over time, it has not been possible to resolve properly. It is a fact that, if we do not proceed quickly, events such as those which have occurred in recent months will be repeated. And here we return - alas - to the usual economic and financial problems. I am well aware, for having played its role, that the state's coffers are scarce, but it will be necessary, by deburring, to involve private individuals as much as possible. We all know that the adaptation of Fiumicino depends on the entire Italian air transport and, with it, an important part of the development potential of our country. Minister, you also mentioned in your speech that there has been an increase in passengers in recent years: if this increase, which last year was 6.5%, will continue in the coming years, in five years we will have 50 million passengers at Fiumicino airport, which in the state is inadequate to receive them. Chaotic situations are at risk, much worse than those experienced in recent days. These are considerations, my own, simple. I do not discover anything new, but I believe this is the real emergency on which the Government, together with the concessionaire, must carry out an adequate and decisive reflection. We're late. Forza Italia does not intend to dwell on the denunciation of the facts, because it would be too convenient and above all useless. Despite the opposition, my Group intends to put itself constructively, without misleading obstructions, but the proposals and decisions are for the Government and above all for you. I read that today it has received ENAC and Airports of Rome, and I hope that a solution has been found. Minister, we can be a majority or opposition, because it is the voters who choose, but we always support Italy and we are not pleased to see how the Fiumicino airport has been reduced in recent weeks. With regard to the events of the last few days, if there are responsibilities, it is not up to us to denounce them, but there will be those who will intervene. I want to conclude - a colleague has just mentioned it - emphasizing that the time has come - we are all involved together - to better control the services that are provided by some low cost companies, that moreover do not pay the taxes in our country and offer absolutely inefficient services, shameful and clogged our airports without that for Italy there is not even a tax return. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u147	Senator Astorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u148	Mr President, I would especially like to thank the Minister for his swift and prompt intervention in this House, as requested by the Senate in a unanimous manner. Minister, you mentioned an issue that I believe has not been taken into account in this House, especially because some speeches tended to campaign more, perhaps against Rome, Mafia Capital or the Malpensa hub. It is right what you mentioned: we are faced with a complex chain that governs a particular biorhythm. That of the Fiumicino hub is a complex chain, which includes air traffic control, ground services, transportation to and from the city, the situation of the airport, the city of Fiumicino. A complex chain of this kind cannot be governed by individual segments. Let's start with air traffic control. The ENAV authorizes Fiumicino, for security reasons, one landing every 60 seconds; someone pointed out earlier that at Heathrow there is a landing every 30 seconds. This may mean that, in order to recover volume of traffic, the airport is opened to low cost companies, which are then difficult to manage, because different from the airline companies. As for the ground service, the so-called handling, is of concrete experience of all of us, but I believe of all passengers who pass to Fiumicino, how lacking is the service for passengers and aircraft on land. A European competition has been announced by you, but surely the savage competition that has taken place in recent years, leading to hundreds of redundancies, has been detrimental to the quality of the service. Anyone who passes by Fiumicino Airport, compared to other national and international airports (in 2009 in Zambia I had the suitcase just off the plane), must always wait half an hour or forty minutes for the baggage collection, and those who must then take a coincidence are involved, with the risk of losing the next plane. The transport to and from the city, fundamental for Fiumicino (fundamental for now, fundamental for the Jubilee and the Olympics), is ensured by a railway of forty kilometers that takes forty minutes to cover such distance and by a highway that is the shame of the city and that, together with the large ring road - recently occupied by Senator Ginetti - is all dark because of the copper thefts at any time of the night. I think - my friend Razzi does not want me to - that only North Korea has a situation like this with regard to an important road artery. We will face the Jubilee, which will take place in autumn and winter, with the highway that, from the five in the afternoon (when it is dark) until the next morning, is completely dark because of the copper thefts, as is the darkness of the whole large ring ring. In this connection, Minister, I would like to point out to you that the large ring link is now basically blocked. I urge you to resume the CIPE financing for Roma-Latina and Cisterna-Valmontone because, in addition to being an important investment ready for Lazio, will also involve a considerable reduction of traffic on the large ring road. Anyone who knows that stretch of road knows that it, from the grafting with the Roma-Fiumicino to the grafting with the Roma-L'Aquila, in all hours of the day is substantially blocked and, therefore, absolutely inadequate as transport and entry door into the city. I come to the management of the airport and the situation of the city of Fiumicino. She has remembered - but has remembered also the managing director of Aeroporti of Rome - that from 2013 there is an important plan of investments. The mayor of Fiumicino, Esterino Montino, has instead remembered the great delay of these investments and the state absolutely inefficient in which the city of Fiumicino pours, regarding the Police Forces, the firemen and the urban policemen, which is still treated as part of the XIV municipality. That's not possible. You have rightly announced a coordination table between the City, the Metropolitan City and the Region. It is one of the most important nodes, and then, when problems occur, the City of Fiumicino is always at the forefront. Having heard that the airport firefighters have been diverted from internal security to go out the fire outside is definitely troubling. I hope that the management of the airport will catch up with 20 years of delay. The investment plan, in relation to the new service contract, must go ahead, just as the C Pier must go ahead. We must ensure that these investments are quick and profitable and bring Fiumicino, in perspective and in its connection with the City, to be truly the main gateway of which to be proud and not ashamed, as has happened lately. The structural weakness exists, and it certainly does not come from the last periods, and it must be recovered with a complex chain of command over which the Ministry must oversee and supervise. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u149	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, whom I thank for being available.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u150	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 2021, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Casson, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u151	Mr President, I will be conducting my oral report, but I ask you to allow me to attach the full text of the report to today's report, since this is a rather complex and complex measure, which concerns many issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u152	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Casson.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u153	CASSON, Rapporteur. Decree-Law No 83 of 27 June 2015, originally composed of 24 articles, was amended several times during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies. It should be remembered that the Chamber of Deputies has introduced ten additional articles, for which the decree is now made up of 34 articles, divided into five titles. Title I, from Article 1 to Article 11, contains provisions on competition proceedings; Title II deals with enforcement procedures in the civil field; Title III deals with fiscal measures; Title IV - which has been the subject of major changes to the Chamber of Deputies - contains forecasts of the efficiency of justice, the telematic process, and other provisions relating to the retirement of magistrates, namely the well-known issue of seventy-one and seventy-two years. There is also a transitional provision contained in Title V, in Articles 22 to 24. We will now have to try to find the connecting thread of the overall ratio of this measure, which certainly intervenes to dictate specific rules on the efficiency of justice, but also in the matter of the activities of enterprises in crisis for the recent events that have concerned in particular the Ilva of Taranto. It should be recalled that, precisely in this sense, a new paragraph, the second paragraph, with which the repeal of Article 3 of Decree-Law No 92 of 2015, introducing urgent measures for the exercise of the business of establishments subject to judicial seizure, the content of which has been substantially transfused into the new Article 21-Justice of the Decree-Law in title, has been inserted into the Single Article of the Law of Conversion. The latter, to paragraph 1, previews that the exercise of the activity of enterprise of the establishments of national strategic interest is not prevented from the seizure on the assets of the enterprise owner of the establishment when the precautionary measure has been adopted in relation to the hypothesis of crime inherent in the safety of the workers and must guarantee the necessary balance between the continuity of the productive activity, the safeguard of the occupation, the health and the safety in the workplace. The discipline under consideration is directed to widen what already provided for in article 1, paragraph 4, of decree-law n. 207 of 2012, that concerned the establishments of strategic national interest and, in particular, the Ilva of Taranto, for whose provisions the Constitutional Court has already clarified, with the judgment n. 85 of 2013, the possibility of an intervention of the legislator about the productive continuity compatible with the precautionary measures. The provision provides that the activity of the establishment may continue for a maximum period of 12 months from the adoption of the said seizure measure subject to the submission, within 30 days, of a plan containing additional measures, including of a provisional nature, for the protection of the safety of workers on the installation which is the subject of the seizure order. This plan shall be communicated to the judicial authority which has ordered the seizure and shall be transmitted to the provincial command of the Fire Departments, to the offices of ASL and INAIL competent by territory for their respective surveillance and control activities. The rules introduced also apply to seizure measures already adopted by the judiciary, and therefore already in force. It is also expected that both the 12-month period for continuing business and the 30-day period for drawing up the safety plan will run from the date of entry into force. Turning to the specific examination of the individual articles of the decree-law, I recall that Article 1 intervenes, as well as the subsequent ones, until Article 11, on the bankruptcy law (Regio Decree 267 of 1942) to facilitate the finding of financial resources by the entrepreneur in crisis. As amended by Article 182-d, with regard to financing and business continuity in the prior arrangement and debt restructuring agreements, the reform specifies that the request for authorisation to obtain pre-deductible financing may be made by the debtor even before the submission of the plan relating to the modalities and timing of compliance with the proposal for prior arrangement and related documentation. It also allows the court to authorise the debtor, as soon as the application has been submitted, to obtain limited pre-deductible financing in support of the business, during the periods indicated and in the forms specified in the decree-law. It also extends the possibility, already provided for by the court, of granting pledges and mortgages to guarantee the same loans. Article 2, on the other hand, intervenes on the specific discipline of the preventive arrangement, including in the bankruptcy law Article 163-a to provide that alternative offers may be submitted compared to the agreed plan for the purchase of the company or its branch or specific goods. The Court must, of course, express its views on competing offers by opening, at the request of the Commissioner, a competitive procedure aimed at improving the satisfaction of the agreed creditors. Changes have been made by the House of Deputies which have established that, in the face of an offer for the purchase included in the agreed plan, a competitive procedure must always be opened. In addition, the Decree-Law provides for rules for advertising on the public sales portal, sets the minimum increase in consideration and amends Article 182 of the bankruptcy law, concerning measures in the event of the sale of goods following an agreement, in particular regarding new forms of advertising on the public sales portal. Article 3 of the Decree-Law amends other articles of the bankruptcy law with the aim of making it possible for creditors to submit proposals for arrangement alternatives to that submitted by the entrepreneur at the shareholders' meeting. The latter will therefore be able to opt for the proposal that best protects their interests. In particular, the reform amends Article 163 of Royal Decree No 267 of 1942, in order to allow one or more creditors, representing at least 10% of the claims, to submit a competing proposal for a preventive arrangement and its plan. This proposal cannot be accepted if the debtor's proposed arrangement ensures that at least 40% of the chirografary credits are paid, even if deferred. Other minor changes have been made by the House of Deputies. I would also like to remind you of the specific proposal concerning the alternative proposal of creditors, in the event of an agreement being reached continuously in the company, which cannot be accepted if the debtor's proposal meets at least 30% of the chirografary claims. In addition, the amendment of Article 165 of the bankruptcy law obliges the court commissioner to provide creditors who so request the information necessary for the submission of competing proposals, on the basis of the debtor's compulsory accounting and tax records, as well as any other relevant information in his possession. Paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 3 refer to the new deadlines for submitting competing proposals for arrangement. The original text of Article 4 amends Article 161 of the bankruptcy law, providing that, with the plan containing the analytical description of the modalities and the times of fulfillment of the proposal of prior arrangement, the debtor must always specify the specific economic benefits that each creditor would derive from the agreement itself. The Justice Commission of the Chamber of Deputies has replaced Article 4 with provisions which, by amending the rules of the pre-emptive arrangement in bankruptcy law, specify the requirements of the proposed arrangement, the obligations of the judicial commissioner and the modalities of adherence to the proposal. In particular, the proposal for an agreement must satisfy - if it is not agreed continuously, as I said earlier - at least 20% of the chirografary claims and must indicate the specific benefits that can be obtained from each creditor. It also refers to communications due to the prosecutor concerning the request for an agreement, which must be supplemented by all the relevant documentation, as well as to the obligation, specifically of the judicial commissioner, to communicate to the prosecutor all relevant facts for the purposes of criminal investigation. Articles 5, 6 and 7 of the Decree-Law amend, instead, the provisions of the bankruptcy law relating to the curator, with the specific purpose of speeding up the procedures and guaranteeing the third party of the organ. In particular, Article 5 deals with requirements for the appointment of the administrator; Article 6 deals with the liquidation of the asset and Article 7 deals with the closure of the bankruptcy, providing firstly for the closure of the bankruptcy following the allocation of the asset even where there are pending judgments; secondly, that the sums necessary to cover the costs of the judgment, as well as those received as a result of non-definitive measures, are withheld by the curator and, after the closure of the bankruptcy, their deductions and those remaining from the provisions are distributed among the creditors; thirdly, that any excess of the assets resulting from the conclusion of the pending judgments do not entail the reopening of the bankruptcy procedure; fourthly, the late admission to the insolvency of the bankrupt when, following the additional departure following the closure of a pending judgment, the creditors have been partially satisfied; finally, the continued liability of the curator of the delegate when, despite the closure of the bankruptcy, hang judgments concerning the assets of the bankrupt. In addition, I would remind you that the House of Deputies has charged the magistrates with the obligation to deal with the causes in which a bankruptcy or an arrangement is involved with priority, for the known reasons relating to the fact that otherwise pending cases are likely to prolong the closure of bankruptcy proceedings excessively over time. Article 8 provides that Article 169 bis of the bankruptcy law, relating to the effects of the contracts in progress in which the debtor who requested the prior agreement is a party. The purpose of the intervention, which harmonizes this discipline with that dictated for bankruptcy, is to eliminate the interpretative doubts inherent in the possibility for the debtor to dissolve from such contracts, thus avoiding the continuation of long disputes that delay the definition of the agreement. Article 9 inserts Article 182-f into the bankruptcy law, which complements the provisions of the debt restructuring agreement laid down in Article 182-a of the same law. Basically, the aim is to take away from banks that boast small claims the power of prohibition in relation to restructuring agreements that see the accession of the most exposed creditor banks. The new provision provides that the debt restructuring agreement may be concluded if financial creditors representing 75% of the credit in the category join it, without prejudice to the full payment of non-financial creditors. The debtor may request the extension of the agreement to non-member banks (and financial intermediaries) having a legal position and economic interests comparable to those of the members, when such financial operators have been able to participate in the negotiations and fully informed of the terms of the restructuring agreement. They can, of course, join or appeal to the court to which the agreement is to be approved. Article 10 intervenes on Article 236 of the bankruptcy law in order to extend the criminal law provided for therein (for the agreed prior and controlled administration only) to the hypothesis of unlawful referring to the new credit restructuring institutions with financial intermediaries and moratorium convention introduced by Article 9 of the decree-law. Article 11 intervenes on Article 107 of the bankruptcy law, establishing that the sales and other winding-up proceedings carried out under the liquidation programme, carried out by the receiver of the bankruptcy through competitive procedures, may provide that the payment of the price may be made in instalments. The second part of the draft law begins with Article 12, which introduces Article 2929-a into the Civil Code, with the aim of providing for a simplified form of enforcement of the creditor affected by acts of the debtor, carried out in a non-payable way. In particular, the holder of a claim arising before the injurious act, with an enforceable title (e.g. the act of foreclosure), shall enforce the good even in the absence of a final judgment of revocation declaring the ineffectiveness of that act. However, this enforcement action will be possible in the presence of two conditions: that by the injurious act the debtor has constituted a constraint of unwillingness or transferred free of charge a immovable property or a registered movable property; that the creditor has transcribed the foreclosure within one year from the date of transcription of the injurious act. The debtor and the third owner will of course be able to propose opposition to the enforcement action both where they contest the conditions underlying the action, and when they claim good faith, that is, the lack of knowledge of the prejudice that the act of disposition of the good did to the creditor. Article 13 makes a number of changes to the rules governing enforcement contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, which is summarised below. Point (a) provides that the precept must also contain a warning to the debtor on the possibility of making use of the crisis settlement agreements provided for in Law No 3 of 2012 on the composition of the over-indebtedness crises; letter (b) provides that the publication of notices in the context of the forced expropriation procedures, now entrusted to the court before which the proceedings are conducted, is replaced by the publication on the website of the Ministry of Justice, in a public area called the public sales portal, and letter (c) provides that the publication of the notice on the daily newspapers is no longer mandatory, but returned to the judge, at the request of the creditors. According to point (d), in the event of the conversion of the foreclosure, both in relation to immovable property and movable property, it is expected that the foreclosures will be released with the payment of the entire sum; the foreclosure will lose its effectiveness when forty-five days have elapsed since its completion without the assignment or sale being requested; before the entry into force of the decree-law the creditors had ninety days to request to proceed. According to point (e), in the framework of the procedure of execution of securities with the debtor, for the assignment and sale of the goods, the use of the public sales portal is foreseen and the installment is allowed when the value of the goods foreclosed exceeds 20,000 euros. Point (d) provides that the sale of movable property by commissioning becomes the rule, requiring the judge to proceed in this respect when the sale can be made without enchantment; the same judge will have to fix the total number of sales experiments and identify the criteria for determining the reduction. The alternative is the sale to the enchantment (letter h)): the delegated professional may apply to the execution judge in the presence of any problem related to the sale and, compared to the judge's decision, the parties may lodge a complaint with the college. In the context of the expropriation procedure with third parties, the Decree-Law establishes the impignability of the amounts due as a pension, to the extent corresponding to the amount of the social allowance increased by half. In the case of credit to a current account of any amount attributable to the employment relationship or treatment of quiescence, the sums shall be inadmissible to the extent corresponding to the three times of the social allowance, if the credit is prior to the foreclosure. However, points (l) and (m) provide that, if the credit is subsequent to the foreclosure, the ordinary rules apply (i.e. for maintenance claims to the extent determined by the court; for tributes to the extent of one fifth; in the case of foreclosures, to the extent of half). The foreclosure carried out in violation of the law is ineffective, or partially ineffective, and the vice is automatically detectable by the judge (letter n). It is rewritten the provision on the determination of the value of the property, which must be brought back by the judge to market values, instead of the lowest cadastral values. In particular, the reform said of the criteria that the expert will have to follow in determining the market value: among which I remember the surface of the property, the value per square metre, but also the constraints imposed on the property and any liabilities condominium. This part falls under point (o). In point (p), as regards the authorization of the sale, the reform accelerates the procedures, sends to the court the indication of the price and the time limit within which it is to be paid, allowing it to authorize the payment in instalments. In the sale without enchantment the reform previews that the lower offers of beyond a quarter to the price established, that moreover is returned to the market values at the same time and, therefore, presumably raised. The offer must be accepted if it equals or exceeds the value of the property determined in accordance with Article 568. If, on the other hand, the bid is lower than the fixed value but does not exceed a quarter, the court may proceed to the sale if it considers that there is no way of achieving a higher price. If there are more offers, the decree-law allows the sale in favour of the highest bidder only if the judge considers that with a new sale it is not possible to achieve a higher price. The payment of the price may be in instalments, subject to guarantee, but the failure to pay even one instalment shall be a failure of the successful tenderer. Points (v), (z) and (aa) amending Articles 588, 589 and 590 of the Code of Civil Procedure respectively are intended to coordinate. The Justice Commission of the Chamber of Deputies has further supplemented Article 13 of the Decree-Law by providing, among other things, that, against the decree of the judge of execution that resolves the difficulties arising during the sale, the parties may lodge a complaint, and then has rewritten Article 614 bis of the Code of Civil Procedure on indirect coercion measures, to which a special title is now dedicated. The reform extends the scope of these measures to any sentence on the fulfilment of obligations other than the payment of sums of money. It will therefore be for the judge, already in the course of his sentence, to fix at the request of a party the sum due for any non-compliance with the judgment, taking into account the value of the dispute. Article 14 of the Decree-Law deals with the rules for the implementation of the Code of Civil Procedure with the purpose of coordination. In particular, with the amendment of Article 155-d, the decree-law allows the creditor to obtain from the operators of the databases included in the tax register, as well as those of the social security institutions, permission to request the relevant data of the debtor even before the full functionality of the databases. Article 15 intervenes on the Single Text of Justice Costs in order to fix in 100 euros the contribution which, in the context of the enforced execution procedure, must pay the creditor who proceeds to give appropriate publicity to the sale of a registered immovable or movable property. Article 16 amends the tax rules on write-downs and credit losses of credit and financial institutions and insurance undertakings for direct taxation purposes, in particular by allowing them to be deducted in a single financial year (compared to the previous five years) and by providing a specific transitional framework for income tax and IRAP. Article 17 partially blocks the application of the provisions on DTAs, which make it possible to classify assets for advance taxes entered in the budget as tax credits. In particular, it is expected that they will not apply to assets for advance taxes, relating to the value of goodwill and other intangible assets, entered for the first time from the financial statements for the current financial year on 27 June 2015 (which I recall to be the date of entry into force of the Decree-Law under consideration). In essence, the application of the rules on the conversion of DTA into tax credits is blocked for institutions other than credit and financial institutions, which can benefit from this discipline only for assets relating to the value of goodwill and other intangible assets, as clarified by the Revenue Agency. Article 18 concerns the third part of the decree-law and regulates detention in the service of ordinary magistrates. In particular, it is established that ordinary magistrates who, at the date of 31 December 2015, will have reached seventy-two years must be retired by the end of the year - in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 1 of Decree-Law No 90 of 2014 - and that ordinary magistrates who, at the same date, have not reached seventy-two years, but must be retired in the period 31 December 2015 - 30 December 2016, are held in service until 31 December 2016. In the accompanying report of the decree-law it is evident that the discipline thus introduced determines the partial and limited extension of the detention in the service of the ordinary magistrates, in order to cope with the emergency created in the staff of the judicial order and to remedy the risks of paralysis denounced in the operation of certain offices, both requirers and judges. The Supreme Council of the judiciary also intervened on this matter, to point out the need to renew the assignment of vacant posts, which would, further and seriously, remain such with the entry into force of the rule I have previously mentioned. On this subject the Chamber of Deputies introduced article 18-a, which said provisions for the generational replacement - as it is defined - in the honorary judiciary, in line with the provisions contained in Decree-Law No 90 of 2014 which, for employees of public administrations and professional magistrates, has repealed the provisions on detention in service, in order to favor the generational replacement. The proposed amendment therefore seeks to unify the rules governing the maximum age of judges and to unify them for all. In detail, then, are indicated the specifications of age, sector by sector. The House of Deputies also introduced Article 18-b, which, in view of the emerging problem associated with migration and the high number of proceedings related to requests for international protection, especially in Sicily, allows the Supreme Council of the judiciary to implement, defining the modalities, a maximum of twenty judges at the judicial offices in which the greatest increase of such proceedings occurred; the application will last for eighteen months, renewable for a maximum of six months. Article 19 contains provisions in the matter of telematic civil process, while article 20, paragraph 1, is postponed by six months the entry into force of the so-called telematic administrative process - moving it, therefore, to January 1, 2016 - and the provisions in the matter of reorganization of the TAR provided for by Decree-Law No 90 of 2014, repealing the provisions that marked the times and dictated the modalities. In the absence of the emergency intervention, from 1 July 2015 the detached sections of the TAR of Parma, Pescara and Latina would have been deleted. With paragraph 1-b of Article 20, it is also envisaged to extend to administrative magistrates the reductions of holidays already applied to ordinary magistrates by Decree-Law No 132 of 2014, simultaneously limiting to the period 1 August to 31 August the working suspension of administrative procedural terms. The Chamber of Deputies has also introduced Article 20-a, which deals with provisions on computerization of the accounting process and intervenes to extend also to accounting justice certain rules of the telematic civil process relating, in particular, to the attestation of conformity of computer copies to paper documents. Article 21 of the Decree-Law contains provisions on the fund for the efficiency of justice and provides for the classification in the roles of the judicial administration of 2,000 staff from the Provinces. On this point, the Chamber intervened and reworded the provision, providing that the procedures for the classification of such staff are of priority over any other transfer procedure within the administration of justice already provided for in national collective agreements and contracts. With regard to the additional Articles to Article 21 introduced at the time of conversion, Article 21-a provides fiscal incentives for legalisation. This provision provides for tax incentive mechanisms for assisted negotiation and arbitration through the adoption of the tax credit model already foreseen for mediation by Legislative Decree No 28 of 2010. The rules also grant the parties a maximum tax credit of EUR 250 for the remuneration paid to lawyers authorised in the assisted negotiation process. In the report to the Chamber of Deputies it was stated that, on the basis of the data held by the Ministry of Justice, it would be possible to estimate Prudently in about 300,000 a year the number of civil and commercial disputes already pending in the courts and the Courts of Appeal that may be transferred in arbitration and in about 80,000 a year the processes of assisted negotiation, pursuant to Chapter II of Decree-Law No 132 of 2014. In view of the fact that the tax credit is only recognised in the event of successful negotiation or the conclusion of the arbitration with the award, commensurate with the compensation up to € 250, it has been estimated Prudently in the first application of the provisions that a percentage of not less than 40% of the approximately 380,000 proceedings will be successful with the agreement of the parties (about 152,000 proceedings per year). However, the amount of the tax credit granted to those entitled will be determined on the basis of the resources allocated up to EUR 10 million per year. Considering that the tax credit can be included in the tax return of 2015, it is expected that the largest expenditure in terms of lower revenues for the State will take effect from the year 2016. Article 21-b refers to persons who have completed the training period referred to in Article 37 of Decree-Law No 98 of 6 July 2011. The provision refers to a decree of the Minister of Justice to be adopted in agreement with the Minister of Economy and Finance in which the number and criteria for identifying persons who, having completed the internship, can be part of the office of the trial for a further twelve months are determined. The provision outlines the criteria and methods for selecting these staff and sets the maximum amount of the scholarship to be awarded in EUR 400 per month. Article 21-c provides for measures to retrain the staff of the judicial administration. Article 21-d refers to the planned transfer from the municipalities to the State of the maintenance activities of the judicial offices provided for by the Law of Stability of 2015 and allows the judicial offices until the end of the year 2015 to continue to avail of the municipal staff, on the basis of specific agreements to be concluded with the local administrations, with specific reference to activities of custody, telephony, repair and ordinary maintenance. A framework agreement previously concluded between the Ministry and the ANCI is also envisaged to outline the outlines of the collaboration. Article 21e extends to 31 December the term of office of the Special Commissioner for operations relating to the security of the Palace of Justice in Palermo. Article 21-f amends Article 8 of Law No 3 of 2012 on the composition of overindulgence crises, in order to also allow trust consortia and financial intermediaries to provide the required guarantees when submitting the proposed consumer agreement or plan. I have already said about Article 21-g in the initial phase of my report. The last three articles concern the financial and cover part. Article 22 provides for financial cover. Article 23 contains transitional and final provisions and Article 24 concerns the effect of the Decree-Law which entered into force on 27 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u154	I would like to say that a number of questions have been raised for a preliminary ruling, which will be discussed at the reopening of the sitting. I suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.29 a.m. and resumed at 16.01 a.m.) The session is resumed. He asked Senator Stefani to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u155	Mr President, the Northern League Group has tabled a question of constitutionality with regard to the bill of conversion under consideration today. There is no doubt that the use of the decree-law, in some respects even unscrupulous (the term is given to me), puts Parliament in the situation of being almost deprived of its prerogatives. Among other things, the measure in question is characterised by a degree of unevenness in the subject matter concerned, in disregard of the legislation in force. We are talking about regulations that are affecting bankruptcy law - I am opening a parenthesis to remind you that, over the last four years, this law has been amended three times - and on the part relating to enforcement procedures; there are also measures concerning the repeal of the abolition of some TAR and an article concerning ILVA. This is a measure in relation to which we are discussing the existence of the prerequisites of necessity and urgency. The question is, in fact, especially with regard to the executive procedure, what is the need to issue a decree-law when the Chamber of Deputies has been incardinated and a draft law is already being discussed: "Delegate to the Government with provisions for the efficiency of the civil process" (Room Act 2953). All the provisions relating to the executive process could have been incorporated in that forum and, perhaps, there would also have been the possibility of examining and analysing the rules not in the haste which, unfortunately, is imposed on us by the rules governing the examination of a decree-law. There is a question of the existence of the prerequisites of necessity and urgency placed at the basis of the enactment of this decree-law, as it is expected that the entry into force of some norms will be deferred compared to that of the decree-law. This is surprising because if a decree-law is adopted for reasons of urgency it is not understood why the entry into force of some of its rules is postponed compared to the entry into force of the law of conversion. In particular - I read a note - I refer to paragraph 2 (a) of Article 14, which provides: The provision referred to in this paragraph shall cease to apply if the management decree is not adopted within 12 months of the entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree. Article 23 (4) also provides that the provisions of Article 5 (...) shall become effective sixty days after publication on the website of the Ministry of Justice(...)....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So even this discrepancy, in our view, only confirms the doubts we have about this measure. We also take this opportunity to recall that Article 14 provides for a very questionable provision, because the transitional rule of Article 155-d, which contains provisions for the implementation of the codes of civil procedure, enters into force even before the adoption of the Ministry's executive decree attesting the full functionality of the structures. With regard to the provisions relating to the TAR, given that there had been a profound difficulty caused by the abolition of the seats of the TAR, it was realized that they could not actually be removed: we are at the repeal of a repeal, and we are surprised at that. We believe and repeat for the umpteenth time that the decrees-laws, in particular on justice, must be instruments to be used in truly exceptional cases. The legislation requires an in-depth analysis and certainly not the introduction, by decree-law, of norms that put in serious difficulty the same operators, who are seen to come measures with normative changes without knowing if the decree-law will then be converted, thus creating a great problem related to the period of transition between the decree-law and the law of conversion. We have said it several times, the decree-law must be an extreme ratio and cannot be used continuously as an instrument that, as we said before, goes to impoverish the Senate Assembly and Parliament all of its legislative power. We need to analyse the rules, to deepen them, perhaps to hold hearings, as we have also done on other issues. We do not understand, among other things, whether the measure is so urgent, why it has been diverted after the measure, which we have just approved, into public administration. If it was so urgent, why was it not considered a priority? We, as a Group, therefore urge the Government not to take away our legislative power; it is absurd that rules are imposed. At this point we think that the only reason is that you fear that they can be changed; fear that the Government's indication will not be followed by Parliament; fear that Parliament will be able to express its opinion. So you constantly use these measures that, if anything, have a form of authority but certainly not authority. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u156	He asked Senator Buccarella to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u157	Mr President, once again the Senate Assembly is examining not a decree-law, but two at the same time. Indeed, the bill of conversion into title has been modified, as we know, by the Chamber of Deputies with respect to the text published in the Official Journal, with the introduction of an article aimed specifically at resolving the most recent judicial problems of the ILVA of Taranto in order to allow the continuation of the business activity even in the presence of a seizure on the assets of the enterprise owner of the establishment when the precautionary measure was adopted in relation to the hypothesis of crime inherent to the safety of the workers. This insertion has undoubtedly altered the original establishment of the decree-law, which already had a plurality of heterogeneous provisions in the field of justice. To this first block, in connection with the matter of bankruptcy, some rules on digital justice are added; the classification in the roles of the judicial administration of personnel coming from the Provinces; tax incentives (in reality very limited) to the recent procedures of assisted negotiation of arbitration; the trainees of the justice; the requalification of specific staff of the judicial administration in relation to a litigation in which the Ministry of Justice has been unsuccessful; the maintenance of the judicial offices, using municipal staff; the dangerous introduction, with subsequent non-ministerial regulation, of the notorious copy of paper courtesy to the lawyers. We have listened to the clarifications of the last few hours and even yesterday evening on television Mr Orlando, who seems to want to dispel the doubts and fears that a large part of the lawyer and legal practitioners are fearing, namely essentially the introduction of the paper copy in the proceedings of the judgments, which would mean a clear step back from the prospects of efficiency of the system on the way to the total computerization of the telematic civil process. The seriousness of the provision concerning ILVA (Article 21-g of the decree) is evident both from the procedural point of view and from the point of view of constitutional merit. In fact, the reopening of the steel plant subject to preventive seizure was allowed, this time not already compared to violations of environmental legislation - to this you had almost accustomed us in the previous so-called ILVA rescue decrees - but to a serious accident at work, resulting in the death of a worker. Of this worker we like to remember the name: his name was Alessandro Morricella, he was thirty-five years old and died hit by a cast iron jet at 2,000 degrees, which practically melted him; he was only the fifth dead, in the last three years, following the activity of the infamous steel worker of Taranto. It would be necessary here to ask whether it is justified to close a discotheque for four months, for a death which resulted, not in the activity of the tourist company, but in other activities, and whether it is also right to forcefully maintain an industrial plant whose harmfulness is well known to all, not only for the citizens of Taranto and the surrounding areas, but for the workers themselves. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is a question that will perhaps also be taken up by some other colleagues. Although accompanied by ritual commitments - allegedly aimed at ensuring safety at work, health and environmental health, as well as the same aims of justice - the rules included in the decree-law are aimed at neutralizing judicial measures expressly aimed at preventing the continuation of serious crimes, where the second paragraph of Article 41, of the Constitution stipulates that private economic initiative is free and cannot take place contrary to social usefulness or in such a way as to harm security, freedom, human dignity. Let us repeat this: security, freedom, human dignity. The provision of transitional rules for cases in which the seizure has already been adopted at the time of entry into force of the decree-law only confirms the intention of the legislator (i.e. this Government) to reopen a specific establishment bypassing the judicial order. This, however, constitutes an absolutely unbalanced treatment with respect to other business activities and thus a violation of Article 3 of the Constitution. However, the decree-law under consideration is not limited to the provision for the future. Almost to identify a territorial area to productive destination legibus soluta, that is outside the law, are explicitly overwhelmed also the seizures that, to date, are already adopted. As noted by illustrious scholars in similar cases, there is no guarantee of compliance with the limits required by the Constitutional Court for the legitimacy of the so-called law provision, among which stands out the fact that the judicial function in relation to the decision of the cases in progress is not established, where the putting into nothing the preventive seizure for violation of the laws on the safety of the job appears to be the sole objective of the article in question (21-g). Moreover, the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court on the laws having retroactive scope is constant in placing as a limit to the legislator the respect of the functions constitutionally reserved to the judicial authority. The fallout of a court order would result in an illegitimate interference of the legislative power in the prerogatives of the judicial one - that is exactly what is happening, I believe, unprecedented of this magnitude - as stated by the Constitutional Court in judgment No 85 of 2013. The executive power should never be allowed to place any judicial action in nothing by a mere unilateral act of empire, rather than by experimenting with the means of appeal governed by law and the Constitution to ensure the verification of the legitimacy of the measures themselves. Article 21-g appears to be constructed in order to leave no room for the discretion of the gip with regard to the suspension of the seizure. Not only, in fact, the Government has established that the exercise of the activity of enterprise is not prevented by the order of seizure, but also has previewed that the gip is merely given news of the preparation of the plan of adaptation, previewing a successive monitoring that is not understood well if it consists in a mere control regarding the implementation of the measures previewed from the plan autonomously prepared from the company or extends until to include, upstream, the appraisals regarding the suitability of the plan itself to reach the objective of the safety of the plant. In the first case, it would result in a blank authorization for the continuation of productive activities against which the judiciary detects criminal illice. In other words, it is a measure detrimental to a fundamental principle of the Constitution and the rule of law: the principle of separation of powers. While aware that the jurisprudence of legitimacy and constitutional is constant in believing that the judged precautionary person introduces a procedural foreclosure of different scope than that relating to the authority of what is judged, it seems unlawful the repeated limitation placed, for the plant in question, on the effectiveness of decisions of the judiciary, albeit temporarily limited. With regard to the judicial order, it should be recalled that the Constitutional Court, in its judgment No 171 of 2007 and, more recently, in its judgment No 128 of 2008, constituted the heterogeneity of the contents as a symptomatic element of the lack of constitutional presuppositions for the adoption of the emergency measure or its parts. We have dealt with this so many times that, frankly, we have also become a little tired, so I am jumping to the same level this chapter, inviting those who might be interested to refer to the text of the question referred. All of this, however, cannot prevent us from stigmatizing the irrationality of this type of procedure, as has already been pointed out, for example, in relation to Decree-Law No 91 of 2014. Instead of introducing an ex-novo amendment into the Decree-Law, it is preferable to immediately make clear the content of this amendment, which is widely announced in the press, by transforming it into an autonomous decree-law to be dropped later. This is why the House is now examining amendments which are already fully in force, with paradoxical effects in the event of a change or failure to adopt them. It is therefore in the presence of an inappropriate pollution of the process of conversion into law of the decrees of urgency, through the interweaving of the power of amendment of the rapporteurs and of the Government and the legislative power temporarily recognized to the same Government by Article 77 of the Constitution. This way of proceeding, in addition to creating confusion in the work of the Chambers, has a negative impact on the delicate profiles of the Government-Parliament relationship and the majority opposition. I am sure that all this will be the subject of study, also academic, with particular reference to the degeneration of relations and the overpower of the executive power - of this Government above all - towards the other two powers. In addition to this, there is the systematic exercise of confidence. We know that confidence in this decree-law will soon be required, so that any amending, improving and amending efforts made by the House will be frustrated by yet another vote of confidence (we have lost count, we do not know if it is the 41st or 42nd). The Government will therefore defeat the text, forcing even those who would have voted favorably to convert the decree into law, to swallow the parties that sincerely would have avoided voting. But you have to swallow everything like this, because with Renzi so it is, or everything or nothing, and you have to swallow it all unfortunately. For all these reasons, Mr President, by recalling more widely also what was described and deduced in the preliminary question at my first signature and signed by my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement Group, I would ask, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, not to proceed with the examination of the Senate Act 2021. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u158	He asked to intervene Senator Caliendo to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u159	Mr President, we are discussing yet another decree-law, yet since the first years of university we have been taught that the urgent decree is a derogation from the principle of the division of legislative power between Parliament and the Executive of modern constitutional systems. In order to limit the abuse of the Government Article 77 of the Constitution a specific discipline, which is ignored. Mr President, many times the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and therefore our Parliament, has overshadowed the Constitution in recent years because, for reasons of numbers and the majority and because of fidelity to its government, it has given favourable opinions of constitutionality even when constitutionality was not there. We found it a few months later and a few years later, when the Constitutional Court rejected those laws, saying first of all that there were a lot of different subjects - such as text in conversion - different competences and different activities. According to the Constitution, the content should have the character of urgency, but here we are discussing, as we shall see, even measures that will take effect after 2016: this is absurd. This circumvents the application of the law by means of unnecessary derogations, extends or postpones the terms of their application, and constitutional opinions are expressed even if the requirements for effective constitutionality of the rules are not met. The decree-law under consideration, with the further additions made by the Chamber of Deputies, which increase these problems and highlight the initial unevenness of the norms contained, is without the necessary conditions of constitutionality. Several provisions have been introduced, which deal with very different subjects: from bankruptcy law, civil law, civil procedural law, the organisation and functioning of the judicial administration, to tax matters, in open conflict with Article 15 of Law No 400 of 1988, which regulates the urgent decree. The judgments of the Constitutional Court n. 171 of 2007 and n. 128 of 2008, innovating precisely the constitutional jurisprudence on the subject of the presuppositions of the decree of urgency, consider the non homogeneity of the content of the decree-law an index of the possible non-susistence of the requirement of extraordinary necessity and urgency. The judgment No 22 of 2012 of the Constitutional Court considered the decree-law to be unlawful, if its content does not respect the constraint of homogeneity. I therefore wonder what homogeneity there is in this measure. I shall confine myself to a few comments: Article 12, which has not been amended by the Chamber of Deputies, aims to provide for a simplified form of enforcement of the creditor affected by the debtor's devices. In particular, the holder of a claim arising before the injurious act, with an enforceable title, shall enforce the good, even in the absence of a final judgment declaring the ineffectiveness of that act, with serious doubts of constitutional legitimacy. It is true that such enforcement action will only be possible if there are two conditions: that the debtor has entered into an obligation of availability or transferred free of charge an immovable property or a registered movable property and that the creditor has transcribed the foreclosure within one year of the date of transcription of the injurious act. However, these conditions do not remove those doubts about constitutional legitimacy to which I have referred. Not to mention article 16, paragraph 1, which provides for changes to the decree of the President of the Republic, December 22, 1986, n. 917, in which it is established that for the credit and financial institutions referred to in Legislative Decree n. 87 of 1992 - i.e. the banks, in order to understand us - the write-downs or losses on credit to customers entered in the balance sheet for this reason and the losses made through assignment for consideration are deducted in full in the year in which they are recorded in the balance sheet. Mr President, paragraph 4 provides, however, that the deduction of losses recorded in the budget during the period prior to 31 December 2014 is based on tax periods from 2016 to 2025, i.e. ten years from now. It just doesn't seem like we can talk about urgency. What, then, about Articles 18 and 18 -bis? With regard to Rule 18, Mr President, you will remember when I tabled an amendment (but the government did not take account of it) which delayed the retirement of magistrates in two years. Now we have not tabled any amendments, although the rule is not correct because it is limited to a single year. Provision is also made for the generational replacement in the honorary judiciary, as if tomorrow any government can speak of generational replacement of the ordinary judiciary. What does that mean? It is a contradiction in terms, because the honorary judiciary already requires a high age before entering the service, so I wonder how we can talk about generational replacement. You say that you want to apply the rules that concern the ordinary judiciary also to the honorary magistrates, in this way it would have its meaning; the current wording, on the other hand, is also bad from the point of view of reading and the principles of our Constitution. Article 20 repeals the provisions introduced by Article 18 of Decree-Law No 90 of 2014 (just one year ago), which provided for the abolition from 1 July 2015 of the detached sections of the regional administrative court. We have also joked about this, and so we are discussing this again about the same situation as before. Article 21 then introduces provisions which could not have been implemented in any way this year and, precisely in order to correct these difficulties of application, the Chamber, examined on the substance of the decree-law, had to introduce amendments that confirm their topicality, highlighting them if anything, for this reason, as rules of deferred effectiveness. Article 23 contains the transitional rules of article 5, paragraph 1, letter b), of the decree-law under consideration for the existence of provisions on the national register established at the Ministry of Justice. On the basis of the above-mentioned transitional rules, the provisions become effective sixty days after the publication on the website of the Ministry of Technical Specifications by the person responsible for automated information systems; therefore, this provision procrastinates the adoption of the measure concerning these specifications by six months and is also a fundamental tool for the protection of the personal data of citizens. As it is, the decree-law arises with obvious problems also of financial coverage, in clear violation of Article 81 of the Constitution. The problem arose from the examination by the House's Budget Committee, where the Government had to integrate the technical report with a new report to explain the many questions raised about quantification and coverage profiles. There are doubts as to the determination of the burden on certain provisions and the fact that the above measures are carried out in the course of this year or in the following years; it is not clear what the burden on the national register of the measures for the appointment of insolvency curators is; no clarification has been provided on the determination of the burden of the provisions for the implementation of the Code of Civil Procedure. With regard to the deductibility of the write-downs and credit losses of credit and financial institutions and insurance undertakings, it should be noted that simulations carried out on the basis of the situation of the individual taxpayers concerned have not been able to dispel doubts as regards the quantification of the charges. With regard to the effects of the detention of ordinary magistrates, the Government estimates a financial neutrality, however, it is conceivable that, at an initial reduction of the burdens, it follows an increase of the same in the following years. With reference to Article 21, the burden of the administration of justice on the so-called acquisition of Province staff has not been clarified. The rule does not seem to recall the current rules on the transfer of staff between public administrations. The provisions on the economic treatment of the staff concerned remain to be clarified. It is an important question that absolutely needs clarification in order to understand whether the economic treatment of origin, as estimated, or the treatment of destination will be applied to this staff. This clarification, in addition to a more precise estimate of the charges, is useful to avoid the raising of burdens which would result from the establishment of appeal proceedings once this staff is placed in the administration of justice. Parliament once again suffers from the misuse, misuse and frequent use by the Government of the decree of urgency in order to enact provisions which are not uniform. I take advantage of the presence in the Chamber of Deputy Minister Morando, who will remember better than me that there had never been a concatenation in this Parliament, a tangle of decrees-laws so close that Parliament could not express its views. You will recall that there were those thirty days for each branch of Parliament, which were respected and allowed us to deepen. When this measure arrived last week, we were told that it could not be changed and that the question of trust would be raised. At that point everything becomes a joke, in terms of respect for constitutional principles. For this reason, I must ask everyone to decide not to proceed to the examination of this decree-law. For once, we call on the Government to respect constitutional principles, so that we can make an effective contribution to the approval of the measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u160	He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP4. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u161	Mr President, I do not repeat here all the reasons and, of course, the very large constitutional case-law on Article 77 of the Constitution. It is obvious that the repeated use and abuse of the instrument of the decree-law, Mr President, has, in fact, altered, perhaps irreparably, the relationship between Parliament and the Government (and of this we had echoes yesterday, during the last hearings in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs by constitutional emeritus). This relationship should be based on mutual and loyal cooperation, as required by respect for the form of parliamentary government. Instead, these relations have changed and now the Government, through repeated use and abuse of the use of the decree-law of Article 77 has, in fact, expropriated many of the constitutional prerogatives of Parliament itself. I will not repeat here all the judgments of the Constitutional Court in question, but the conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 83 is almost an example of school, because the measure under consideration fully confirms that the contents of the decree-laws are increasingly complex and heterogeneous and, therefore, do not meet the requirement of homogeneity, thus completely disregarding the dictation of Article 15, paragraph 3, of Law No. 400 of 23 August 1988, which states in a very clear and unequivocal way that the decree-laws must contain measures of immediate application and their content must be specific, homogeneous and corresponding to the title. This provision, although recalled several times by the Presidency of the Republic itself, which considered it to be of an orderly nature, is regularly and constantly bypassed by the Commission. Decree-Law No. 83 of 2015, in fact, is an omnibus measure, composed of 34 articles, compared to the original 24. In this regard, the subject is introduced that in the decree-laws through the amendments very often converge completely heterogeneous disciplines, which affect a plurality of subjects and cases. In particular, Title I includes measures in the matter of bankruptcy, with reference to the agreed advance, the introduction of new requirements for the appointment of curators, the closure of bankruptcy and the restructuring agreement with financial intermediaries; Title II includes measures in the field of enforcement procedures by introducing simplified revocation action; Title III contains provisions in the field of taxation with regard to write-downs and losses on claims of credit and financial institutions; Title IV contains a plurality of provisions in the field of justice: some concern staff, such as detention in the service of ordinary magistrates, as well as the entry into the roles of the judicial administration of 2,000 units of administrative personnel from the Provinces and metropolitan areas; other provisions concern the so-called digital justice, the judges of peace, the strengthening of offices responsible for requests for international protection, the telematic civil process, the tax incentives for assisted negotiation and arbitration procedures, the trainees of justice, the requalification of the staff of justice and finally serious judicial limitations to the measures of seizure of establishments of strategic national interest (ILVA, but not only). In the decree-law under consideration, therefore, there are provisions to which the reasons for the urgency of the intervention are substantially lacking, e.g. that amending the requirements for the appointment of insolvency curators or that which creates on the website of the Ministry of Justice a public sales portal, whose discipline - according to Article 23 of the decree-law, on the transitional legislation - will become effective thirty days after publication in the Official Journal. We have already indicated earlier some of the provisions of the decree-law to which certainly lacks the intention to face extraordinary situations (the long list quoted at the beginning) that could justify objectively heterogeneous interventions. It follows from the above that, as the Constitutional Court pointed out, the mere introduction of provisions into the body of an objectively or teleologically unitary decree-law does not, for this reason alone, convey to the same the urgency of the other provisions, linked to each other by the common purpose of object or purpose. Of particular gravity is Article 13, which contains, among other things, a series of provisions amending the Code of Civil Procedure with regard to the foreclosure of immovable property, which seems to have neglected the fact that behind each mortgage a family may be temporarily in pain which would not deserve to be subjected to treatment by its private creditor, such as a credit institution, other than that which would reserve for it the State that guarantees the impregnability of the house. Both the doctrine and the jurisprudence are anxious to state that the right to enjoy the availability of a dwelling is worthy of legislative protection as an instrument in relation to the enjoyment of other constitutional rights. In this way, we come to Article 21 -opties of the measure under consideration, which explicitly states that "the exercise of the business activity of establishments of national strategic interest is not prevented by the seizure order... when the same refers to the hypothesis of crime inherent in the safety of workers" and that it is only communicated to the judicial authority that the preparation of any plan - perhaps even not in compliance with the regulations - has taken place - by the company, for the continuation of the activity of establishments of strategic interest, without a solution of continuity, measures and additional activities, even of a provisional type, for the protection of safety at the workplace"........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This article is deeply detrimental to a fundamental principle of the Constitution and the rule of law: the principle of separation of powers, which arises from the identification of the fundamental functions through which the authority of the State is manifested, also presenting serious and worrying profiles of constitutional incompatibility with the principle of reserve of jurisdiction and mandatory prosecution provided for in Article 112 of the Constitution and the principles of constitutional protection provided for in Articles 32 and 41 of the Constitution, respectively, in the matter of health protection and freedom of the economic initiative which must in no case harm workers' safety. Also article 21-g of the measure said rules destined to affect the criminal proceedings in progress, besides having a universal value, being able to apply to all the national companies of strategic character, and that fits perfectly to the complex situation in which the plant ILVA of Taranto, recently subjected to a new preventive seizure, due this time not to violations of the environmental legislation, but to an accident at work, resulting in the death of the worker Alessandro Moricella of thirty-five years, already remembered from Senator Buccarella, 8 June of this year. There is an evident criticality that operates with respect to the dual term provided for by the norm: that of decadence, equal to thirty days, within which to prepare the plan of recovery, and that of maximum duration of the continuation of the activity of the industrial plant of strategic interest, in the more of the same recovery, pairs to one year. Compared to this dual term, paragraph 5 of Article 21-g dictates a transitional discipline for situations in which, at the time of the entry into force of the decree-law, a preventive seizure measure is already adopted, but without expressing with particular precision the additional measures and activities, even of a provisional type, that will have to be adopted for the protection of safety at the workplace, referring to the plant being seized, confirming the Government's intention to guarantee only and only the productive continuity at any cost, I repeat, considering that the business may continue for a period of twelve months regardless of the contents or the actual preparation of a plan intended to be simply communicated to the judicial authority. This intention had already been expressed three years ago by Decree-Law 207 of 3 December 2012, which had defined the ILVA plant of national strategic interest and had entered into force in constancy of an investigation for environmental and health disaster caused by emissions from the steel mill. At the time, the objective pursued by Decree-Law No 207 was to prevent the interruption of steel production when adapting to the new integrated environmental authorisation. Today, with the measure under consideration, the aim becomes the ever stronger one to prevent the closure of the same plant, waiting for it to be adapted to the current legislation on safety at work (not by chance, after the seizure and after the death of the worker Moricella). From this point of view, the parallelism between the two decrees-laws is evident, so much so as to be explained directly to paragraph 1 of article 21-g of the provision, through an express reference to the intervention of 2012, which in any case appears in itself devoid of any preceptive meaning and essentially linked to the logic by the Government to premunicate with respect to possible disputes about the constitutional legitimacy - therefore it is artificial the reference to the decree of 2012 - having regard to the judgment n. 85 of 2013 of the Consulta, in which the judges of the laws had affirmed that, with reference to the aforementioned decree-law n. 207, the legislator, far from being unduly ingested in the judicial activity, had rather intervened on the positive discipline. They are therefore evident to all the instrumentality and the artificiality of the call to that decree-law, because there was no need for it. Similar considerations today are likely to consider at first sight that Article 21-g of the measure in question is also without constitutional legitimacy, because that provision would only introduce a further hypothesis in which, in the presence of certain conditions (the strategic nature of the plant, the preparation of an adjustment plan within 30 days of the adoption of the measure and its implementation within a year) the preventive seizure does not prevent the exercise of the business activity. The reality is another: there are some crucial aspects of the provisions of the measure under consideration that clearly distinguish it from the decree-law issued in 2012. And here it is precisely the question that we are questioning: it is absolutely not identical with the aforementioned decree-law, therefore with the constitutional profile highlighted in the judgment No 85 of 2013 of the Constitutional Court. The difference concerns the following. A first aspect concerns the problem of future seizures, i.e. those not yet adopted, given that in the light of the provisions of the measure under consideration, from now on, any preventive seizure involving plants of national strategic interest could have an effectiveness suspended for thirty days from its adoption, a deadline within which the company will only have to communicate an adjustment plan. A second aspect concerns the adjustment plan. This combination of rules is, in our view, defective from the point of view of constitutional principles. A third aspect directly concerns the already mentioned principle of mandatory prosecution, since Article 21-g of the measure in question appears to have been written in order to leave no room for the judge's discretion in the preliminary investigation into the granting of the suspension of the seizure. For all these reasons, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, we ask that we do not examine the draft law in our examination. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked Senator Bruni to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP5. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u162	Mr President, as previous speakers have said, once again a decree-law is before this House. For the sake of respect for Parliament, we hope that the debate, given the importance of the issues discussed, will not be degraded and compressed once again by a vote of confidence. If that were the case - it is now the case - it would be the 44th question of trust that the Government imposes on us. With this decree-law, the Government intervened to adopt rules on bankruptcy, civil and judicial proceedings, including the amendment of the implementing rules of the Code of Civil Procedure, on the single text on justice costs; it introduced tax measures in the matter of write-downs and losses on claims of credit and financial institutions and insurance undertakings, and measures in the matter of deferred tax asset (DTA), which allow to qualify as tax credits the assets for early taxes recorded in the budget; it also provided for the staff of the judiciary, ordinary, accounting and honorary; administrative and precarious staff; it provided for the introduction of the telematic process to the administrative and accounting process; it proceeded with the reorganisation of the TARs; it introduced tax incentives for the parties who have availed themselves of professionals in the pre- or parajurisdictional definition of disputes. Finally, the decree contains a rule (Article 21-g) which allows the continuation of the business activity of establishments of national strategic interest - as we have already heard and the issue concerns in particular the ILVA - even if they are subject to seizure on the assets of the undertaking holding the establishment, when the precautionary measure has been taken in relation to cases of crime concerning the safety of workers, for a maximum period of 12 months, subject to the submission within 30 days of a plan containing additional measures, including of a provisional nature for the protection of the safety of workers. As you can see, it is a multitude of matters that improperly merges into a law decree. I use the adverb "improperly" because it is improper to use the decree of urgency, to which this Government has accustomed us and which is characterized by the now chronic absence of the necessary requirements of necessity and urgency referred to in Article 77 of the Constitution. In the first place, what emerges in a striking way is the profound unevenness of the treated materials, which essentially excludes the necessary requirements of necessity and urgency previously mentioned. In this regard, the Constitutional Court, in judgment No 220 of 2013, argued that the transformation by decree-law of entire blocks of matter is incompatible, from the logical and legal point of view, with the constitutional dictation, since it is a radical transformation of entire systems as in the case we are dealing with today. Consider that on one of the various subjects regulated by the Government with this emergency decree, the bankruptcy decree, in January 2015 was established a commission composed of magistrates, university professors and professionals, chaired by Dr. Rordorf, President of the First Civil Section of the Court of Cassation and supported by a scientific committee, whose mandate also provides a deadline (31 December 2015) for the submission of legislative proposals in this matter. Evidently you always think about two parallel tracks that you don't meet. Also in relation to the absolute lack of the requirements of necessity and urgency it is evident, regarding the expected revision of the retirement age of the judicial staff, that under the safeguard clause referred to in Article 18, paragraph 1, the effects of the reduction of the retirement age will occur in their fullness not before 31 December 2016, or about two years after the adoption of the decree-law. This circumstance in re ipsa excludes the requirement of urgency. However, we will address this issue later. Chapter V of this Decree-Law introduces, in Articles 9 and 10, specific provisions on restructuring agreements with financial intermediaries and moratorium agreements. Well, the whole of Chapter V is highly discriminatory and manifestly unconstitutional. In fact, a special procedure is introduced for the sole preserve of the strongest creditors (banks and financial intermediaries), with clear violation of the principle of Article 3 of the Constitution, in the matter of equal treatment, in the presence of identity of conditions and situations. This violation is reflected in the violation of the general canon of the par condicio provided for in Article 2740 of the Civil Code. This injury is particularly marked in the forecast referred to in article 9, paragraph 5, of the decree-law in question, where there is even a derogation expressed in Articles 1372 and 1411 (which regulates the contract in favour of third parties, providing for the production of effects in the third party, except for a refusal) of the civil code. The effectiveness of the agreement, i.e. the agreement on a temporary moratorium on credit concluded with certain creditors, is extended, not to say tax, to non-member creditors. So, the strong impose this situation on the weak. In addition, there are profiles of constitutional illegitimacy, in relation to Articles 3, 4, 97 and 111 of the Constitution, also in Article 18 of the measure under consideration, at least for the part in which the new norm also prevents judges already assessed fit for detention in service until the end of the 75th year of age to carry out the work in the performance of the judicial function, without prejudice to the detention in service of the ultra 70-year-old magistrate only until 31 December 2016. As is well known, Article 16 (1-a) of Legislative Decree No 503 of 30 December 1992 gave the categories of staff referred to in Article 1 of Law No 27 of 19 February 1981 the right to remain in service until the age of 75. However, Article 1 of Decree-Law No 90 of 24 June 2014, converted into Law No 114 of 11 August 2014, repealed, among others, Article 16 of Legislative Decree No 503 just recalled, providing for paragraph 3 that the detentions in service for ordinary, administrative, accounting and military magistrates that on the date of entry into force of this Decree have the requirements pursuant to Article 16 of Legislative Decree No 503, and subsequent amendments, are without prejudice to until 31 December 2015 or until their expiry if provided for earlier. With article 18, paragraph 1, there is an extension to 31 December 2016 for ordinary magistrates who have not completed the 72nd year of age at the date of 31 December 2015 and who must be retired in the period between 31 December 2015 and the following year. Well, the reduction of the pensionable age provided for by the aforementioned rule appears illogical and irrational, contrasting with the articles of the Constitution previously recalled. First, in fact, the introduction of the new maximum age limit beyond which the employment relationship must be interrupted, despite the proven suitability of the magistrate, illegitimately frustrates the custody of the citizen who had obtained the right, based on previous laws, to detention in service until the end of the 75th year of age. On the point that from the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court the value of legitimate expectations is placed in the legal security of relations and finds its cover, once again, in Article 3 of the Constitution (see judgment No 378 of 1994). Moreover, the drastic reduction in the period of detentions already planned will result in an exceptional shortage in the staff, adversely affecting the functionality of the judicial offices, without producing the stated objective of the generational replacement. In particular, the limited extension, scheduled for 31 December 2016, for the retirement of judges over seventy years old, already authorised for detention in service, will not allow the timely completion of the new insolvency proceedings. There is, therefore, a clear contrast between the objective pursued by the reformist intervention and the content of the norm, since the excessive reduction of the period of stay in service will not allow the prompt recruitment of the new magistrates in place of the outgoing ones. In other words, the choice seems unbalanced and disproportionate because, without it being possible to make any replacements, it unreasonablely frustrates the right of question to detention in service, as already mentioned. In addition, by putting in parallel Articles 18, paragraphs 1 and 1-a, and Article 18-a, paragraph 1, further confirmations emerge to the statements already expressed, also from the point of view of the unequal treatment because, on the same age requirement of the subjects concerned, the different date of termination of the assignment violates Articles 3, 4, 97 and 111 of the Constitution. More precisely, the violation is nouned where, in article 18, paragraph 1, it is expected, with the aforementioned postponement of the effects of article 1, paragraph 3, of Decree-Law No 90 of 2014, the detention in service of ordinary magistrates who have not completed the seventy-twond year of age at the date of December 31, 2015, but who must be placed at rest between December 31, 2015 and December 30, 2016. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Bruni. BRUNI (CRI). I'm finishing, Mr. President. Similar considerations can also be made for the judges of the Court of Auditors. Finally, in article 18- bis, paragraph 1, the judges of peace, the honorary judges of the court and the honorary vice prosecutors who have completed the seventy-two years of age at the date of December 31, 2015, the termination from office on the same date, with a different treatment compared to the other magistrates. For these reasons, the Conservatori Group, Italian Reformists, asks that the draft law n. 2021 be not examined.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u163	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u164	Mr President, I would like to highlight some important passages already illustrated by Senator Caliendo, in particular because of our absolute conviction of the unconstitutionality of some changes proposed to the civil code through a decree-law. This is an absolutely censorable practice, even more so when these changes affect the structural freedoms of citizens. I refer in particular to Article 13, but also to the following. This is a clear violation of the freedom to manage its assets and rights, resulting from the recognition of private property existing in the Constitution, in favour of only one sector: banking. I am really very concerned about the lightness with which the Government and the majority continue to disrupt the fundamental freedoms of the citizen, as is the case here. I believe that this is indeed a case of blatant inconstitutionality. I do not know whether colleagues have all had the opportunity to follow this measure. On the other hand, the practice now established in this imperfect bicameralism gives us armored texts, as they say in our jargon, approved by a House to be then simply re-voted (not even ratified but re-voted, by the other House). I imagine, among other things, that there will be yet another vote of confidence on this text. As I said, this practice deprives the parliamentarians, in this case the parliamentarians of the second Chamber (so I do not just make it a matter of the Senate), the absolute possibility of expressing their assessments, therefore of exercising the constitutional mandate provided for. I will be brief, because I understand that colleagues are more interested in speed than in the content of the debate. I would like to make a personal appeal to you, Mr President, as I had done a few months ago on the occasion of such a measure. I am referring to Article 21-a, where once again appears that horrible term "dejurisdictionalization" which I find in no vocabulary of the Italian language and which should not find asylum in any of the provisions of our legislation. This article 21-a I also refer to as an incredible example of littleness, if you will allow me. What does it mean to give a tax credit incentive, on a fee to be paid to lawyers in the amount of EUR 250, among other things commensurate also with the appropriateness of this compensation? I understand that some professional categories are exhausted at the moment in our country, but this is an offense to the quality of Italian professionals, in particular of the forensic class. Indeed, I am absolutely amazed at how this kind of solution can be achieved in a legislative measure and in a Parliamentary House. The obvious inconstitutionality of this provision lies also in the profiles of Article 81. Despite the fact that the measure has been infected by numerous and costly predictions in the transition to the House, the so-called cover article has not been modified. Beyond some small specific coverage, such as this of the tax credit of 250 euros or so (less yes, plus no) to be matched on the compensation to professionals for five million experimental in 2015 (I would then like to understand what these experiments mean in tax legislation, I am really very surprised), I said that, beyond some small occasional coverage, Article 22, which carries the financial coverage of the entire measure, has remained unchanged with respect to the initial provision, despite the numerous additions, some expensive, which have been introduced by the Chamber of Deputies. This clearly indicates how there is an injury to Article 81, because it can only be that a cover that could be appropriate in the original text of the Government remains to the same degree in a text that has greatly increased the expenditure forecasts. I am of course addressing my fellow Members, but in this case also yours, Mr President, and that of the President of the Republic, whose final judgment will also concern Article 81 of the Constitution, so that we can stop with this practice of continuing to force the cover profiles of a measure, in order to bring in all the changes that the Government suggests to the branch of Parliament that discusses the measure at first reading or that the same branch of Parliament, for the sake of blockages of the majority, introduces without even providing for the related financial cover. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u165	I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator Stefani and other senators (QP1), Senator Buccarella and other senators (QP2), Senator Caliendo and other senators (QP3), Senator De Petris and other senators (QP4) and Senator Bruni and other senators (QP5). It's not approved. MARTELLI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u166	Mr President, there are many things that need to be explored about this measure, but there is little time, for which I fly to Article 21-g, an article that would be to be read and rewritten totally, for the irrationality of the plant, because it is badly written, because it is contrary to Articles 32 and 41 of the Constitution and because it is a slap in the face of the legislation on safety at work, in particular Legislative Decree No 81 of 2008, as well as an insult to prevention. I refer specifically to the rule introduced by the Chamber that, in the name of a shared and necessary balance between continuity of production to safeguard employment and protection of health and safety at work, provides that the business activity of the establishments of national strategic interest cannot be prevented from seizure on the assets of the company holding the establishment, when the precautionary measure has been adopted in relation to the cases of offences inherent in the safety of workers. Already with the decree-law on local authorities it has become a mess of public health, submitting medical activity to purely economic and budgetary issues. Only a week has passed and this time the government virtually puts the dominance of the logic of profit on the requirements of protection of health and safety in the workplace. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella]] I invite you now to reflect on the irrationality of the whole. Today, when a serious or serious accident occurs, the seizure of the plant is arranged, but rationality would like the precautionary seizure to be motivated by very valid reasons, not merely by a formal bureaucratic failure, but by a serious and actual danger that, if not removed, exposes the workers to other accidents and the risk of death: it must therefore be a certain and imminent danger. The company usually turns to the court to ask for the partial seizure, but only in order to secure the area where the accident occurred, on the basis of a security and adjustment plan established also on a provisional basis. With this rule, however, subverting every possible logic, the exact opposite is done. The fundamental problem is that safety must be the same in all companies: there are no A-class workers and B-class workers. Life is an equivalent good for all, while in this way it makes a difference: some workers are more protected and some others less. It must of course be realized that, when a blast furnace is seized and turned off, it cannot then be rekindled as the candle of a birthday cake, because an off blast furnace means a blast furnace that will no longer work, to be destroyed and rebuilt. There must therefore be a very valid reason for the seizure. But if there is a danger, the reason is not valid, it is very valid. So I wonder why, for example - with regard to the fatal accident that occurred at Ilva, because of which, let's say, a worker died melted - in 2015 a structure such as the ILVA could not afford an optical pyrometer. Explain why? Maybe because it's not cheap? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Campanella]] But what is cheaper, to stand still a year, with twelve months of non-security? What does all this mean? Preventing means reasoning. If there is danger - the law says so - we cannot expose anyone to danger. If then there is no danger, the prosecutor, the magistrate or whoever for him does not have to make "sheriffs", must contain his ego, not break the boxes and let the company work. This is the basic concept, after which measures must be taken. The logic would therefore like that, in case of precautionary seizure, the company prepares a plan, not to be submitted to the INAIL, which has no competence in this matter: if anything, it is the CONTARP (Technical advice ascertaining risks and prevention), a body of the INAIL, to have a minimum. The INAIL itself, when having an accident or occupational disease survey, requests the Service for Prevention and Safety in the Competent Working Environments (PSAL). Therefore, it is up to PSAL to ask, or even better, to ask, the Standing Committee on Safety at Work, set up in the prefectures, in which there are the Service for Prevention and Safety in the Work Environments (SPRESAL), the Fire Departments and the Regional Agency for the Protection of the Environment (ARPA). In this connection, I would like to mention the model adopted in Turin, which works for this aspect, and the prefectures which are provided with it. Therefore the article would have to be deleted completely and it would be correct to prescribe to arrange the pre-emptive seizure limited for the time strictly necessary to the judicial investigation and the acts of the consultant of part, possibly designated by the prosecutor, but with operating times rather than timely.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u167	Please conclude, Senator Fucksia.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u168	FUCKSIA (M5S). With the obligation therefore for the public prosecutor to work at Easter, Christmas and Ferragosto, if necessary, without continuity. Meanwhile the company must be given the opportunity to remedy, as soon as the department is dissected, with restart subordinate to the approval of the draft modification by the competent control bodies on the prevention and the supervision for that type of incident. Simple, isn't it? As usual, unfortunately, neither the Government, nor the Ministries, nor the Members of Parliament know what they are talking about. So, ladies and gentlemen, if we continue to make laws that do not serve or make the existing laws worse or more confusing, I propose that we consider the possibility of harvesting tomatoes and potatoes, extended to the Commission and Parliament, also at the cost of removing the work of the poor seasonal immigrants, who many like so much, for other reasons. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u169	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u170	Mr President, colleagues, members of the Government, Decree-Law No 83 of 2015 is a very complex measure with important content, which would have deserved a longer and deeper analysis by the Senate. In particular, in the Commission, we saw it go through very quickly - too quickly - without being able to properly explore the content and implications that it will produce and well aware of its approval, most probably through a matter of trust. This has certainly inhibited and frustrated our amending activity which, I recall, is animated by a positive improvement of the text. Instead, it is regrettable that the Senate is precluded from suggesting improvements to the text, because the technical times for a third (perhaps definitive) reading in the Chamber of Deputies are there, as the decree-law in question must be converted into law by August 26, or twenty-two days from now. Clearly, we are talking about a summer period in August, but in view of the importance of the measure, it might have been possible to ask for this sacrifice from colleagues in the House of Deputies. As I enter into the substance of the provision, I will comment only on a few articles. I would like to refer to Article 18-b, which rightly deals with judicial proceedings related to the recognition of internationally protected status and other judicial proceedings related to immigration phenomena. The aim of this intervention is to make available more judges (up to a maximum of 20) in the judicial offices where there has been the greatest increase of these procedures, granting to the magistrates who manifest availability to the extradistrict application some incentives, even economic ones. I hope that this measure, which should reduce the time taken to define applications for international protection, will be really effective and truly succeed. In fact, the current situation is increasingly unsustainable, with applications from migrants of the status of asylum seekers, which last more than a year to be defined in the first instance and even longer waiting times for definitions of appeals to decisions against the granting of status. This leads to maintaining in a limbo (and also maintaining economically) for years the lives of the people who have somehow reached our country. We all know that this is an emergency and must therefore be addressed in all its aspects: this judicial aspect is certainly one of those. I repeat that I hope it will be effective and really reduce expectations. The article 20, paragraph 1, which intervenes in averting the closure of the TAR of Pescara, Latina and Parma deserves equally attention. These are three of the eight detached offices of the regional administrative courts, which add to the 21 TAR present in the 21 capitals of the Italian Region or Autonomous Province. In this regard, a brief chronicle has to be made: in June 2014 the Government decided to close, from 1 October 2014, the eight branches of the TAR present in Italy with Article 18 of Decree-Law No 90 of 2014. In the course of its conversion into law, Parliament reduced the deletions to 3 (Pescara, Latina and Parma) and only from 1 July 2015, since the other five had also been considered as courts of appeal and for this reason were saved; with the decree-law under consideration, finally, the Government decides not to delete even the three branches already mentioned. I wonder what changed between June 2014, when the government wanted to close all eight detached seats, and June 2015 (just twelve months later), when the government itself no longer wants to close one? What were the reasons for the closure then and what are those of the hour for their maintenance? They are not rhetorical questions, nor polemics mine, because I think it is right to let the Italians know the reasons for this different and antithetical government orientation matured in such a short time, only twelve months. Finally, last but not least, Article 19 of the decree-law in question re-introduces the delivery of the paper copy into the telematic civil process. With Decree-Law No 179 of 2012, so-called growth decree 2.0, a first decisive impulse had been given to the telematic civil process that will be extended, I hope, to the administrative and accounting process. Now, however, the rule that we are going to approve is definitely a step backwards because, I quote: By decree of a non-regulatory nature, the Minister of Justice shall also establish organisational measures for the acquisition of paper copies of documents filed by electronic means. In addition to the unintelligible step backwards of the paper copy, this paragraph will produce an increase of work at the head of both the Ministry of Justice, since the court canals will have to receive and manage two different channels of communication for the same practice (I understand via telematics, which I imagine will be however the most important, and the paper way), and lawyers forced to double send. Obviously the double format inevitably leads to the problem of ascertaining that both copies, albeit in different formats, have the same same content: a further and unmotivated complication for me to the already costly work of the courts and of all the practitioners of justice. I fear that with this choice we have wanted to support a resistance to change by operators in the sector, sometimes motivated by organisational deficiencies, but above all by the habit of paper support that can reasonably remain, but in relation to personal habits of comfort; these habits must not impose complications and burdens on other operators in the sector. Finally, there is still one last gem on this issue: the shift to 1st January 2016 of the telematic administrative process, which was scheduled for 1st July of this year. It is clear that further delay is accumulating in the necessary transition to the dematerialisation of processes, and this is not a good signal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u171	Mr President, at last we are examining a measure that deals with failures, even if - in my opinion - the only failure is this Government. The text before us speaks of failures, so I thought that we really wanted to put in place rules that could provide shelter for our small entrepreneurs against failures of major realities that are often, unfortunately, also reasoned. For our part, both in the House and in the Senate, we have tried to offer proposals that would benefit small entrepreneurs. In particular, strict measures to avoid abuse of the white agreement, which is very often required by these great realities, while our small entrepreneurs remain with a handful of flies. We had also proposed other rules in favour of chirografary creditors, because it is a category that is currently unprotected. We had asked for transparency in the appointment of insolvency curators, so that they would not, as today happens, always be appointed the same. We wanted a special book, where we could fish at random and in a different way a bankrupt curator, who is very important. We must bear in mind, Mr President, that failure is a dark period of entrepreneurial activity, although at times, unfortunately (with the rules currently in force in Italy), it can become the happiest time for the entrepreneur. Maybe the entrepreneur has this company and begins to waste its goods, through the purchase of materials at exorbitant prices, or through exorbitant advice or the sale of properties, previously bought at ten and then sold at four. Honestly, the rules we were going to propose avoided all this, but nothing to do. And I realized here that the government's objective was not the necessity and urgency: of fact, this is a decree-law. But let us remind ourselves that the decree-laws are exceptional instruments, designed by our constituent fathers to ensure that the Executive (which should be the body that executes what this Parliament decides, even if it does not do it anymore) goes to settle some issues with the requirements of urgency. There was that need. And I have rightly said to myself that at last, as I said initially, something was to be done about failures: there is an urgent need. There is a need and the government finally listens to our small entrepreneurs. No way! I then realized what was behind the measure! The gift to the banks! Then, at the last moment, it was put inside the gift to the ILVA: the save ILVA. But let's be clear. This is not a decree saves ILVA, but it aims to save those who managed ILVA until the day before yesterday and who then - by chance - is the same entrepreneur who financed electoral campaigns on the right and on the left. That's who they really wanted to save! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Not the entrepreneur who is in a state of failure, Mr President. Mostly, here you want to save not the entrepreneur, but the taker. But we're not in. Indeed, the idea that, as unfortunately happened in the House, the Government wants to put its trust in this measure. Let's think about this for a second. The Government puts trust, not to help the entrepreneur, but to help the banks (this, in fact, is the content of the measure) and help the Riva. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u172	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u173	Mr President, I asked for action only to highlight one specific aspect of this decree-law, which deals with various aspects of the functioning of the justice machinery. I am referring to the question of the office of the trial and how, within this office, work will be organised, also in relation to the valorization of the experiences gained over time by those who over the years have worked to support the operation of the judicial machine not as an employee of the administration of justice, but with a precarious role of training trainee. With this intervention, I wanted to point out positively that the Government has undertaken to accept, even if in a limited way, a necessity, that is, that the work of the precarious of justice, former training trainees, which in recent years has represented support for the functioning of the offices and an investment of the State in the formation of these operators, was not dispersed. To this end, the Government has foreseen that, within the new office for the trial, even if in a limited way and even if through grants of limited amount, part of that audience of 2,600 former training trainees could be included in support of the functioning of this body that, precisely because of its novelty, will need this experience, as well as the other subjects who will work there, including another type of trainees, i.e. those young graduates lawyers who will thus be able to form also in anticipation of a possible entry into the roles of the judiciary. We took charge of this issue, also in the Justice Commission a few weeks ago, through an agenda that was positively accepted by the Government, which asks the Commission for its commitment to take on the rest of this audience of precarious justice by putting into value some important experiences that have been made in recent months in the relationship with the Regions. I am thinking of the important experience of the Piedmont Region, that of the Emilia-Romagna Region and those of other Italian regions, where the Region, in relation to the judicial offices of the territory, has reasoned on the activation of routes, of projects of integration of these people using the European structural funds, the so-called PON and POR, and also the Single Fund for Justice to build educational and integration paths. It is not only a question of responding to people who have served the machinery of justice over the past few years and who would like to continue to do so, but also of ensuring that greater efficiency of judicial administration also comes from the non-dispersal of important experiences that have been built over the course of the year. The measure we are debating also contains another set of very important aspects, which go in the direction of the retraining of judicial staff. I believe that the wager of a better functioning of the judicial machinery goes a lot from the valorization of the people who operate there. We are dealing in these months, from various points of view, with the subject of the various subjects that make up the mosaic of the staff of the judicial offices, from the magistrates to the honorary judges to the judges of peace to the various categories of trainees or precarious persons, and I believe that from a better appreciation of the role of all the subjects that make up this mosaic will have an important benefit to the functioning of the machinery of justice that - I would like to remind you - represents, and I believe must do it more and more, one of the fundamental objectives of this legislature. If we really want Italy to start again, we must make sure that the real economy starts again even from an aggression against the malfunctions of bureaucracy, but also the evils that still slow down the times when citizens succeed in obtaining justice. An investment in people working within the judicial administration is, I believe, a fundamental element in such a project.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u174	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u175	Mr President, this draft law is a further measure, which the Government and the majority want, which we are preparing to implement in the justice system. This decree-law dictates a series of measures in bankruptcy, civil and civil proceedings, as well as of an organisational nature. In particular, the emergency measure intervenes in matters relating to competition and enforcement procedures, tax measures, the efficiency of justice and the telematic process. The other branch of Parliament has made many changes to the text, also introducing additional articles, with the aim - in my opinion implemented in a way that is too sudden and unsatisfactory - to address in a timely manner the cases of company crisis and to allow to limit losses in the economic fabric of the country, both in the strictly entrepreneurial dimension and in the financial and business recovery. The long economic crisis has shattered entire industrial and commercial sectors, has bent thousands of companies, decimating the supply chains and hit the heart of the industrial and productive corpus of the Country. It has caused the loss of millions of jobs, it has thrown on the paved families, it has tarted the wings to many young people born in the seventies, eighty and ninety of last century and unfortunately has armed the hand and the mind of dozens of entrepreneurs that have preferred death to shame, while the State, against so much ecatombe, has proved inert. It is therefore necessary to intervene with appropriate measures to enable entrepreneurs to mitigate the economic and social effects and costs of the economic crisis which, despite the Government's proclamations, does not seem to diminish. However, a cultural leap is also necessary: it is necessary to prepare a positive context that operates a scarification of the psychological component involved in the economic and entrepreneurship reverses, rather favoring a sociological reading and less emotionally engaging. I would like to focus, ladies and gentlemen, on one of the articles of this decree, which deserves more careful consideration, and not because the other parts of the measure are less. This is Article 21-g, which bears the same content as Article 3 of Decree-Law No 92 of 2015, which is still in the process of being converted. The provision provides that the pursuit of the business activity of establishments of national strategic interest shall not be prevented by the seizure of the assets of the undertaking holding the establishment, where the precautionary measure has been taken in relation to occupational safety offences and must ensure the necessary balance between the continuity of production, the safeguarding of employment, the health of workers and citizens and safety at work. The discipline under consideration is aimed at widening what already provided for in article 1, paragraph 4, of decree-law n. 207 of 2012, for establishments of national strategic interest and in particular for the ILVA of Taranto, for whose provisions the Constitutional Court has already clarified in the judgment n. 85 of 2013 the possibility of an intervention of the legislator about the productive continuity compatible with the precautionary measures. The provision provides that the activity of the establishment may continue for a maximum period of 12 months from the adoption of the said seizure measure subject to the submission, within 30 days, of a plan containing additional measures, including of a provisional nature, for the protection of the safety of workers on the installation which is the subject of the seizure order and which concerns the activity of an undertaking of establishments subject to judicial seizure. This change clearly does not appear casually, but refers to two very important businesses in our country, which are the ILVA in Taranto and the Fincantieri plant in Monfalcone. The aim should be to balance the needs of productive continuity, employment, health and protection of workers. Therefore, for what comes out, the exercise of the business activity should not even be followed by the seizure, which was regulated by the bill n. 207 of 2012. The seizure should therefore not prevent business activity even when referring to the safety of workers or even when the seizures have already occurred. So it is clear that we are faced with something that is difficult to define. In practice, after three years from the seizure of the hot zone of the ILVA of Taranto by the gip, Dr. Todisco, we are again faced with an arm of iron between the attorney of Taranto and the Government, that is to say a issue for common sense because - we must remember - the seizure without faculty of use of blast furnace 2 was decided by the public prosecutor Dr. De Luca and confirmed by the gip Dr. Rosati. The decision took place twelve days after the accident that caused the death of a 35-year-old worker, Alessandro Morricella, who died after four days of agony in the hospital due to severe burns reported on 97 percent of the body due to a sudden and violent flame released from the burning casting while measuring the temperature of the cast iron. An abnormal incident, the one of 8 June, which had never occurred in about fifty years of steel history in Taranto. The plant, among other things, was one of the few in the hot area already in some way environmentalized and it is difficult to understand why, up to now, neither the company, nor the technicians of ISPRA and ARPA Puglia did not realize that there were problems and an important danger in both the practices and the components present in the mixture being melted. So, you want to explain to us the government if this decree is jeopardising workers' safety? The safety of workers cannot be overshadowed: they cannot be asked to face serious risks until they die. There is talk of conflict between institutions, government and judiciary, in contempt of the principle of loyal collaboration between the powers of the State. I do not want to go into technical matters, but it is clear that with the eighth speech on the ILVA the inability of this Government to emerge from a deadlock that has now characterized this affair has been discovered in all its seriousness. There have been seven targeted measures. This is basically the eighth. I think that in the history of the Italian Republic it has never happened that eight measures were taken since the outcome so far uncertain. Dear colleagues, the real problem is that this Government has a lack of ideas about what needs to be done for Taranto and its province, for its sea and for the unique Taranto urban fabric, for the industrial and port areas of Taranto. Those workers, whose fates the government is holding for the eighth time, live the total uncertainty of the future and will now be increasingly subjected to the risks, crushed by the terrible dilemma: work or health. They will be forced to obtain the only source of income, often without employment alternatives, all the more in the light of recent reports on the state of the economy in the Mezzogiorno issued by ISTAT and SVIMEZ. This is what we of the Conservatori Group, Italian Reformists, do not want and from which comes our opposition to a measure that in many respects, as well highlighted in the question referred by our Group, does not have the prerequisites of urgency. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u176	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u177	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate is today called upon to convert a bill involving technical aspects for the operation of the justice machine. However, in a subtle way the Government puts in place yet another attempt to save the ILVA, committing an abuse both to the workers of the steel mill and to their families. The measure in question constitutes the eighth ILVA rescue decree, which this time artificially inserted into the decree-law on bankruptcy proceedings, tending to cancel the seizure of blast furnace 2. The measure in question violates six principles of the Constitutional Charter, including the right to life, the obligation to prosecute the judiciary, the right to health, the protection of the environment and the principle that the law is the same for all. Mr President, this measure would lead to the removal of blast furnace 2 from operation without the introduction or completion of the plant safety measures provided for by European and national standards. But there is more. Without the completion of safety controls, blast furnace 2 would continue to pollute the tarantine area, as well as recreating the conditions for new accidents such as the one in which the young worker Alessandro Morricella lost his life. The Ministry of the Environment has not yet established, as provided for in Decree-Law 5 January 2015, n. 1, the achievement of the environmental certifications. In fact - even in this case with scornful cunning, with the game of the three cards - the certification criterion has been unpacked, decreasing it to an insignificant 50 percent. The guarantees for workers and residents in the Taranto area will be reduced, a plant will be reopened and only a miracle will prevent the development of new cancer and suffering diseases. The Greens are ready to address national and international judicial authorities to verify that the Ministry's behaviour has been law-abiding. The workers and their families, as well as the 12,500 residents in the area adjacent to Ilva, are at risk of cancer: this is not a mere statistic. I will vote against this measure and, together with the Greens, I will take action to control the consequences that will be generated: we owe it to the future of our generations, to the health of our citizens, to the dignity of the workers of the Ilva and to claim the democratic base and the rule of law of this country. [[Applause from Senator Casaletto]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u178	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u179	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I take the floor to highlight one particular element of this measure, represented by the agreed budget. This is a subject on which there have been so many complaints and solicitations from entrepreneurs and their respective professional organisations about the distorted use, not to mention the actual abuse, which has been made of this instrument by too many subjects. I believe that the Government and this Parliament must do everything they can to revisit a tool that, although born with the noblest intentions, has produced disconcerting situations. In fact, in many cases, through the arrangement the smartest or the most incapable has redone or has dumped their difficulties on the skin of the honest. The company that was in crisis, in some cases simply because of its bad and senseless management, has relied on the company that produced, worked and knew how to manage in a prudent and responsible way. The agreed estimate is an instrument born with the aim of preserving the continuity of the company: hence, the reason of the agreed in continuity with respect to the agreed liquidation. The purpose of the agreement in white, or with reservation, is to obtain immediately the effects of the protection of the procedure in order to best preserve the company that will go towards continuity or liquidation. However, the agreement in white was used too often as an escamotage to delay payments to creditors over time, or even to evade payments, through the establishment of new companies that took over the business. Since September 2012, there has been an exponential increase in the number of applications for blank agreements; however, only a very small percentage of the agreements submitted in this way have been subsequently approved: not one in three is mentioned. Other data show, however, that there are many creditor companies that have not collected even one euro; everyone can imagine what this means for a company that is already in crisis, given the difficult economic situation. These data tell a lot about how many operators used the preconcordat, to which they had access, indiscriminately and without filter any, companies that only wanted to delay or evade payments, and others that instead were already decoctioned and not healing in any way. It is no coincidence that several legislative proposals have been filed in the House to reform the instrument, and the Government has also been concerned, both with the agenda presented by me to the Code of Procurement and approved in the Commission, and with some significant amendments strongly supported by the self-government and approved by the House in the process of converting the decree that we are discussing today in this House: the Government is grateful for having accepted them, because they have, however, improved the text considerably. In particular, the proposal was introduced, by means of an amendment which collected the commitment approved on my agenda, to provide for a minimum percentage of 20% in the agreed liquidators to satisfy the chirografary credits, which are the most exposed because they do not have guarantees, and which today need more protection. In any case, the offer rate was binding, the silent consent mechanism was abolished for the purpose of approving the proposal and the discipline of competing offers to overcome the so-called agreement blocked by the automatic opening of a competitive procedure. These are important regulatory measures, because they go in the direction of protecting the most exposed creditors. However, strong also of the confrontation with the business associations and with important sectors of the world of handicrafts (I remember in particular the event held in Trento of the craftsmen of Trentino), we are convinced that the agreed deserves a more robust and overall revisitation. In cases where the percentage of payment to chirografari is less than the percentage declared in the plan, automatic bankruptcy should be provided in the event of revocation, waiver or non-approval, with the aim of avoiding one of the most frequent abuses for which an arrangement is initiated, i.e. to block payments, to mature privileged claims and then to cancel them, to the serious detriment of ordinary creditors. Firms in agreement should be prevented from participating in public procurement from filing the request for agreement until the approval measure. In the case of companies which have contracts with public bodies and which enter into a competitive procedure, we must provide for the direct payment of subcontractors. It is necessary to include the express exclusion of prededuction for professional compensation in relation to assistance on agreements subsequently renewed or declared inadmissible. It should be expressly provided that the provision of Article 69-a, the principle of succession between procedures, operates regardless of the temporal distance between the agreed advance and bankruptcy and even in the event of a blank agreement. It is appropriate to extend the revocation to each case of a blank settlement followed by the bankruptcy. Finally, it should be noted that the artisan enterprises involved in competition proceedings should be able to benefit from the important privilege provided for in Article 2751-a (5); unfortunately, the recognition of this privilege is subject to various interpretations, so there are various types of behaviours according to which, in addition to the registration of craftsmen, the company is asked to fall within parameters never defined by the legislator and interpreted in a different way from the individual courts. Therefore, it is important to clarify this aspect too, by providing that, for the recognition of the craft privilege of the aforementioned standard, registration in the register is necessary and sufficient. In essence, we must make the agreement a balanced instrument between creditors' rights and the need not to disperse important corporate assets, because what has happened in recent years is something unacceptable. On the overall reform of the agreement I will deposit in the coming weeks a special bill. But, given the sensitivity and attention that several parliamentarians and also the Government have expressed, my hope is that the Government will take on board the requests of the agenda that I have presented (even if it should not be discussed), which summarises the points that I have just listed. It would be an important signal for the world of businesses, crafts and cooperation, which for far too long have come up against legislation which, although born under the noblest intentions, has in fact produced different situations of genuine injustice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u180	Mr President, I am going to talk about Article 21g and about work, since we are talking about it less and less and, when we do that, unfortunately, we are going to make it a waste of paper. I must say, Mr President, that for two and a half years I have been in here and I have often thought, reading some acts and decrees-laws of this Government and of the majority, that they had reached the bottom and could not go any further. I must admit that I was wrong, because it always goes beyond. With this government at worst, there's never an end. Reading what others have said before me, namely that now the issue of safety at work for workers has become little more than rag paper, really makes me shudder. I'm really scared and even a little pissed off, Mr. President. I must also say that the similarities between previous and current governments are now too frequent and that, on this point too, there are those who have preceded it. Indeed, the first one who said that Article 41 of our Constitution was dated, old and talked too much about work and not about enterprise was once again Berlusconi. And Renzi took the ball at once. In fact, what did you do with this umpteenth decree-law? We can no longer say how many articles of our Constitution are in danger with this Government. Another thing that scares me - and seriously scares me - is that once again the poor people have to pay, they have to be the people who get up in the morning to go to work and seriously put their lives at risk. This government, then, has another characteristic that scares me: it always manages to transform things. Now he says he does it to safeguard employment levels. Look, when you want to safeguard employment levels from the workers' skin, I don't think you do a good job, as well as think it's very dangerous, because it's a boomerang that will sooner or later come back in a heavy way. Now all it is missing is that it is written that workers can also be whipped; of course you have not written it, but in fact it already happens. I'm telling you, it's already happening in the workplace. If this Parliament had some dignity and really wanted to safeguard the work, because a civilised country starts from work, we should have a parliamentary inquiry into what is really happening in the world of work. Of course, I know that I am addressing people who are deaf, who do not want to understand and who have chosen to be on one side, the strong part of this country, that is, the strong powers. You don't want to talk about the real people of the country anymore. Of course, there are still a few of us who may be responsible for this. The other day I heard Senator Fucksia, in a passage I shared, say that we should somehow do information in schools and public television. Yeah, that's right, we should do it. But, since the government goes on another line, the famous job act, for intellectual honesty we should tell the people we want to form on this issue that those who claim security from the next day can be sent home. Otherwise, we would not give a good message to those who listen to us and to those who really want to represent this world, now more and more devastated. Mr President, in the few minutes I have, it is difficult to make a speech that has really been made. However, I would like to end by addressing my colleagues from the Democratic Party who are sitting here on my left. When you wanted to put your hand on the Constitution - and we all know who wanted to put hand on the Constitution for the last five or six years - an authoritative exponent of your party, Bersani, told Berlusconi that, since he had sworn on the Constitution - just as the others who had preceded it - that it is the Charter of all if he was not happy, he could safely go home. Since we have this government, punctually in every act, in every decree-law the constitutional issue is brought into play. I wonder, then, seriously about the silence there is. If this government really has to go home - and from my point of view it is - what better opportunity is it not to vote for the crap it has done on work and school? As for, in particular, what is happening at work, every time I get out of my area I go to see my workmates and try to talk to them. What they tell me and that I would like to bring you all to know and that you have returned not to twenty, thirty, forty or fifty years ago, but to the nineteenth century. There is no longer any right for workers in the workplace: when it's okay, workers must know what their duties and duties are, as I always say. What I think is that, instead, in a normal democratic country, we should talk about rights and duties. With the current majority, the rights have now virtually disappeared from the political scene: the clear example is the rule contained in Article 21, to which many have referred before me. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Allow me to conclude, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, please, Senator. BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). I conclude by saying that the duties of our workers are now before everyone's eyes. On the other hand, no one talks about rights anymore. Yet, the rights are guaranteed by our Constitution, which should be an asset to be safeguarded. As has been said by so many before us, and as is strongly reiterated by many very authoritative people from this point of view, when there is a disaster of this nature we all come out together, if we have all guaranteed ourselves together by the Constitution, and not by making it a waste of paper. So you don't go anywhere, as well as being very dangerous. Let's all remember that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u181	Mr President, I am pleased to note that at least one of the speakers in the seventh decree is present, save ILVA, Senator Mirabelli, who said that there would be no eighth save ILVA. There he is instead. Here's the crap in the crap. This provision sucks, and you put a piece of crap in it to make it even worse. How do we put it now that we've made the eighth decree-law? But I will tell you more: there will also be a ninth decree, because at some point you will realize that this company cannot go on and there will be a need for another decree, because somewhere something else will happen. Let us look, however, at what has happened now. First of all, you could save yourself from sticking this filth in here, because what the company needed was for blast furnace 2, which was seized, to continue operating until blast furnace 1 was completed. This would have been guaranteed by the initial decree-law, without the need for conversion, because it is operational for sixty days and we all knew that blast furnace 1 would come into operation in the first decade of August, as it is punctually happening. Why did you need blast furnace 2 to work? Because there was a need for blast furnace gas, which is used to produce electricity in the plant, without going to buy it out just because it costs more. Or you should have bought the gas, but ENI had already said that he wouldn't sell it to you if the old bills hadn't been paid before, that they weren't paid. In the name of all this, in the name of the bottom of the banks - I was going to say something else, but I didn't say it - that they gave many loans to keep the ILVA open, so much so that at this moment they are virtually the owners, you keep it standing and sprinkle it one piece at a time. It is the workers who are sent to the slaughter by you who, besides destroying the environment and health, are butchers of the workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What will Alessandro Morricella be? I guess it was your son. That would be an interesting experience. Why don't you move to the Drums district and send your children to work in the steel works, the blast furnace, the coking plant or the hell that's the converter? Why don't you send your nephews to that school that they painted pink, so they don't see the iron dust, that it camouflages? Send us your grandchildren, and then you tell me. I'm sure none of you live there, nor do you plan to go. Do so, rather than send others to the slaughter, which has become national sport. By the way, there's a beautiful song from 1916 that talks about exactly this: it would be interesting for you to go and listen to it. So let us see why what you have now produced is abortion. You have written that you want to balance the requirements of continuity of productive activity and of safeguarding employment and safety at work. But it's like trying to balance the need to keep a whole egg and at the same time to make an omelette with that egg. That's the way it is! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The seizure was first done because that plant is potentially insecure and can repeat the damage. That's why the prosecutors arrange the kidnappings and not for eviction, and not because the ILVA is on their balls and they want it, therefore, to be kidnapped. The kidnappings are arranged precisely because there is a possibility of an accident. Since ILVA is an installation subject to the so-called Seveso Directive, i.e. it was already at risk of a major accident, there is a whole set of reference rules which must be complied with. Firstly, in order to be allowed to use that part of the plant again, the company must provide a risk analysis, i.e. it must say how the accident occurred, because and what is the probability that it will be repeated over time. Of course, this can only be done when the system is off, unless we send someone else to the slaughterhouse. Any of you guys volunteering? I would like to draw lots of you to do it: that is what I would like to do. There's no point looking at me like that. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I'd do exactly that. You have asked two experts for advice, the engineer Mapelli and the engineer Wurth, who have provided guidance that absolutely does not allow you to determine the nature of the risk. Their own conclusions do not allow that. On the basis of these findings, the possibility of looking at blast furnace 2 from a distance could not have been authorised either. But, of course, who cares? We are, however, saving the banks and we will save them even more when you do the ninth measure save ILVA, since the requirements of the integrated environmental authorisation (IAA) will not be met. Now the inspectors must check that 80% of the AIA's requirements are met, because that was the quota set, but we already know that it has not been complied with. So what are we gonna do? We will approve the ninth measure save ILVA to say that, if that quota is not respected, who cares! It is also okay to comply with a different percentage, 75, 74 or maybe 70 percent, of the prescriptions. Just say a random number, from zero to 100. That is what we expect. And, above all, I wonder in the name of what we are doing all this: perhaps in the name of job protection? This thing made you laugh before, and now it even makes you cry. With regard to job protection, has any of you made a very simple analysis? You take the average age of employees, you calculate those over fifty years of age and you accompany them to the pension, because they have already given too much for that establishment. The others we can re-employ on site, for the dismantling of the plant, and there is some leftover, because they work for the rest of their lives. If you have managed to find the resources for the hoax of 80 euros per month, to be given as a tip to the people, to carry out this operation on the ILVA just one euro of those 80, or just the allocation of an 80th of the resources used to finance that measure. That stuff cost, in fact, 10 billion euros: to accompany people to the exit is enough much less. But of course you don't want to, and so I keep asking you a question that has to torment you at night. I want to know why you want to insist on standing up this company that does not work industrially, because the steel it produces is not of quality. It doesn't work in the global context, because we better buy steel somewhere else. It doesn't work at the employment level, because what it takes away is more than it gives, and it doesn't work at the health level. I mean, it doesn't work anywhere. And then a minimum of pumpkin salt should suggest that this reality should be closed now, unless, of course, there are interests to be safeguarded. I still have a few seconds to say that the parallel is with the Mount of the Paschi of Siena, that you have padded of participations and absurd credits, going to make him buy the Sorgenia of De Benedetti, in the portion Tirreno Power, that could no longer pay, and other pigs of this type. In the same way, you have made the banks buy ILVA credits because in the end, if you own someone's credit, you own that someone. At this point you are tied hands and feet with the banking sector. And if you want to get out of this intrigue, you have to do an act of courage. Otherwise, we go on doing the eighth, ninth, and tenth provision on the ILVA, until at some point some of you come here and say that you put it all there, you tried in every way, but the ILVA did not manage to keep it up. Then some of us will ask you how much you spent on all this and if you put this money in. Until now, in fact, only the Italian citizen has put them there and, therefore, it is time for you too to take a little while, since so far only others are doing it. All you are asked is this: put something into it instead of issuing these decree-laws or sticking these measures to the label, because it is the most stinking thing you can do. In the end, you're people's butchers. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u182	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u183	Mr President, I very much appreciated Deputy Minister Morando in the Commission when he explained the reasons and purposes of the articles concerning changes to the bankruptcy process, the enforcement procedures and those concerning banks. For the first part, it has rightly justified the need for an acceleration of these procedures and the timing of bankruptcy proceedings. I have nothing to object to, nor to be charged to Deputy Minister Morando, except to point out to the Government that we are at the third amendment of the executive procedures in a short time, which entails every time the need to buy new codes, beyond the problem of the need for sedimentation of the norms, because the attainment of a certain stability in the interpretation of the norms represents a non-secondary element of the certainty of the law. With regard to the second part, which concerns banks, it has rightly highlighted the fact that it is a question of ensuring the competitiveness of credit institutions internationally, in particular with those benefits that are described both from the fiscal point of view and from the possibility of spreading the so-called decoction credit that the bank enjoys, so that it can be eliminated. I agree with that. But, if I had been to the government, I would have guaranteed that banks would provide more credit to small businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, citizens, while in fact they took money from the ECB and were also forced, due to the lack of private investors, to buy government bonds and, at the same time, to ensure the placement of our government bonds. Then there is another aspect. I used to reason with some senators in the Commission that I regret being right a few months later, sometimes, for decisions of the Court of Cassation that highlight the mistakes made by the majority in not accepting some small amendment that came from our opposition. And I'm referring to false assessments in the budget. But also the Government - and here I address the Undersecretary of Justice - a short time after rejecting my amendments concerning the spread in two years of the escape of the ordinary magistrates who reached or exceeded the seventy years, said that it was not possible and that everything had to be closed by 2015. Today, however, you recognize that I was right but, since it was late, it is expected to last for a year. At the same time, write a somewhat shameful rule regarding the generational replacement of the honorary judiciary. But the age requirement of the honorary judiciary has been established since the age of 50. Generational replacement? Are you kidding me? It is as if tomorrow a government established that, for generational replacement, the magistrates over sixty are sent home. I note that experience, professionalism and age in the honorary judiciary contribute to a balanced judgment, especially in those who are not professionally judges. And I have to say that, in fact, the rule is difficult to interpret if - I think it is correct - one has to interpret that in 2016, if the judge reaches the age of seventy, he retires. Then, however, it is said that, at 31 December 2016, if those who are in service at that date have completed their seventy years in the course of the year, they retire at the end of the seventieth year, i.e. at the last possible date. But how is it possible that they are in service on December 31st if they have already retired? It is only a mistake, probably, but it will be difficult to interpret and will give rise to further problems. On the precarious of justice I have to say that, since the last legislature in the Commission Justice, the Democratic Party and Forza Italia have worked seriously to define traineeships that guarantee almost 3,000 people the possibility to work in the judicial offices, with truly derisory rewards. We were talking about 280 euros a month. I wonder whether it is possible, Mr Undersecretary, to make a rule which says that those who have done the internship can be called into the office of the trial for a year and at the end of that period, if they are assessed positively, they will have the benefit of having a right of precedence where they participate in a competition of the Ministry of Justice. But then, correctly, immediately after it is specified that those who have completed the two-year internship have the same right. Which is a mockery. Then I wonder whether it was not possible, as we had predicted with a unanimous opinion of the Commission, to guarantee an internship within the trial office and pay a minimum of compensation, as provided for in the internship. Finally - it has already been said and, therefore, I merely make one observation - how can one think of stimulating the telematic process if, in view of what is today a form of courtesy agreement between judges, chancellors and lawyers (giving a paper copy), here we can say that the Minister of Justice with non-regulatory decree can arrange for a paper copy to be deposited in addition to that transmitted electronically? Finally, Mr Cucca, in assessing the decree-law which dealt with the matter of arbitration, wished that the President of the Commission of the European Communities would like to schedule as soon as possible the draft law to my signature establishing the arbitration chambers of the Court of Justice. And I saw that those draft laws also recorded the consent of the National Forensic Council. It was only expected that, when it was a question of eliminating the backlog, since the citizens have already paid lawyers with the unified contribution, it could well be thought that that remuneration of the referee was neither more nor less, deducted as a tax credit, a tax credit. Since the State didn't lose anything and had already cashed in, I wonder what ridiculous it is to expect that, in the event of the conclusion of arbitration with praise, a tax credit commensurate with the compensation up to 250 euros, within the national total expenditure limit of five million euros for the year 2016. It is such a ridiculous thing that I am surprised to have come to mind those who have seen that the system provided for in the decree-law does not work. On the contrary, if an indication of the draft law that I had presented had been followed, we would probably have an effectiveness of those provisions today. And I am talking about effectiveness because, for those who do not know, there has not been a single arbitration throughout Italy. I hope, then, that things will be different for the future. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u184	Senator Mauro Maria Marino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, Mr Undersecretaries, this decree-law is an important part of the evolutionary context of the Italian banking system, a context which is complex and complex. The Finance and Treasury Commission, in the course of its survey of the Italian banking system and the mechanisms of European supervision, carried out from November 2014 to July 2015, was able to follow closely and with an interlocation at the highest levels this context. It is the reason why I felt it appropriate to take the opportunity of today's debate for a budget and to outline the future perspective, in the light of the important innovations introduced by the decree-law itself and - allow me - also of the things I have heard in the debate this afternoon. I want to retrace the measures or issues that have affected the banks in recent months: the sale of the shares of Banca d'Italia, the reform of the popular banks, the rules on capital requirements, the scaffolding of European supervision (which ranges from the single system to the resolution of the crises and the guarantee of deposits), the self-reform of the cooperative credit banks system, which is on its way, the system of deductibility of losses on loans, the measures to accelerate the recovery of claims and, last, the ECB's financing programmes and the public securities purchase interventions, to which reference has also been made in the debate, also held by banks of the same Frankfurt authority. I only remind myself that, two years ago, the banks were used for a useful cash operation, with an advance of the IRES and IRAP down payment. Today, however, a new scenario and a new awareness are emerging on the horizon. The actors are multiple and complex situations. The basic figure is the interrelationship between the economy of products and services and the financial economy, i.e. credit and finance. If from the crisis born in 2008 we have learned that the absolute independence of finance and the prevalence of its logics destroy wealth, wealth and income, it is now clear that the production of goods and services is asphytic and not lasting, without financial support, credit and money lent and to be returned. They are not the faces of the same medal, but the same verse of the medal, where we read economic development, production and redistribution of income - on the one hand - and decline, impoverishment, end of welfare and social security, on the other. The lenses that serve to give a judgment are necessarily special, which see complexity and shun simplistic approaches and bad propaganda (the gifts to banks are bad, the finance is bad, the politics is enslaved to finance, or the banks strangle the economy, etc.). Sometimes, they seem to lack the space for a judgment I say not serene, but at least balanced. The decree-law is a piece of absolute importance, especially because it shows that the legislator is not inattentive to the role of the banking system and to the economic implications of measures at high technical rate, but at the same time - I want to be clear - places a great responsibility on the Italian banks. It is now up to all Italian bankers to deserve the effort and promptness of the legislator to support with innovation, imagination, entrepreneurial risk and challenge the recovery of the economy of the future. We start with the last hearing of the survey on the financing instruments made available by the ECB. In contrast to what would have been hoped for, the Italian banks used the very low cost resources of the TLTRO (Targed Long Term Refinancing Operation), to return to the ECB the previously absorbed financing lines, at a cost higher than those of the LTRO (Long Term Refining Operation). Despite the desire, but also the demands at the highest levels, to use in an anti-cyclical way the cheap supply to give a boost to the production and the needs of families in financial difficulties, a logic of conservation and defense of very small margins prevailed. However, this choice finds an explanation in the difficulty of the Italian banks - the only ones not to have received direct aid and public recapitalisation interventions in the course of the crisis - to face the depth of the recession and, therefore, the accumulation of losses on loans and the insolvency of debtors. Moreover, according to an expression by the president of the ABI, banks face the so-called low rate revolution: the remuneration of loans has been greatly reduced, international competitiveness has increased and management costs have not fallen as they should have. Compared to this scenario, in recent months we have carried out a work of careful listening, rewarded by the accuracy, deepening and authoritativeness of the contributions, in the result of which has matured the conviction that it was necessary to reason in strategic terms for the country on the front of the credit. It is precisely Minister Padoan who has anticipated in our Commission the lines of action which have materialized in the decree-law: a broad and selective group of measures on insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings and concerted instruments, capable of overcoming the slowness and uncertainties in the recovery of claims, without undermining the principle of equal creditors, but pursuing the objective of unblocking claims and putting resources and energies back into circulation. On the other hand, as has been widely demonstrated during the survey, structural measures - which, among other things, are publicly requested in the Commission by banks, but also authoritatively supported - are capable of creating in the medium term a legal environment to support economic activity, with indirect effects on the credit system, but in any case addressed to all economic actors. The decree-law also provides for the full deductibility of losses on loans in the year in which they matured, whereas previously this option was allowed for the next five years or even earlier, as we know, for the eighteen. In consultation, the Finance Commission agreed to monitor the effects of this measure and considered it appropriate to prick and urge banks to use the tax benefit to extend credit to households and businesses. The question of the complete demobilisation of deteriorated loans remains to be addressed. I support with conviction, together with the Commission, the prospect of creating a special vehicle, to bring together the mass of the credits, in order to activate mechanisms for the transfer of the credits. I do not hide that the redistribution of credit, without constraints and without rules, was the basis of the outbreak of the financial crisis of 2008. Therefore, the whole operation will have to be carried out with caution, with broad sharing, with careful risk assessment and with endorsement at European level. First of all, if the rules for the quickest and most efficient recovery of the claims will have effect, the value of the credits transferred to the vehicle will be higher, with positive consequences on the bank accounts, bringing to completion that work of cleaning the bank accounts that was one of the leitmotiv of the cognitive investigation itself. Moreover, if - as we hope - it is possible to accompany certain categories of credit the public guarantee, with the European assent (even for these aspects the Minister Padoan has anticipated the lines of comparison already last June), the risk of uncontrolled circulation and production of bad securities diminishes even more. Finally, once the operation has started, the leverage of Italian banks will be reduced and the margin of credit will be wider, which we very much hope will be in the interests of citizens, businesses and, above all, the country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u186	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u187	Mr President, I would also like to give up my reply on the various aspects of the problems that have been raised and, even more so, on the amendments tabled which deserve further consideration, because, as we know, the vote of confidence has been announced.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u188	He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u189	Mr President, I will make a very brief reply, partly because the majority senators have already had the opportunity to explain the content of the measure and, in particular, all the rules to simplify bankruptcy procedures and, therefore, to go some way, through simpler mechanisms, to support the companies that are in crisis at this time, as well as the rules that can indirectly lead to greater credit from banks. However, I would like to stress one single element that has emerged in the speeches of the oppositions. In particular, Senator Martelli has exposed the very clear position of the Five Star Movement saying that, for his Group, it is not a problem if it closes the ILVA of Taranto. It's a problem for us. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Martelli]] SANTANGELO (M5S). It's a health problem. Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. For us it is, because it means keeping 20,000 people at home: it means 20,000 jobs in less and 20,000 families in difficulty. There is, therefore, the commitment of the Government and the majority not only to keep open the ILVA of Taranto, but also to put that city and that territory in a position to have an important industrial site and a production of excellence and, above all, to requalify an entire area from an environmental point of view with the Bonifiche that will have to be carried out and with norms that go to protect it the health of the citizens. We know that this Parliament and the Government have already intervened a few months ago in this direction for the revival of the city of Taranto and still today we cannot afford the luxury of leaving 20,000 people at home in the South. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Paglini]] Precisely for these reasons, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of trust on the approval, without additional articles and amendments, of the single article of the bill n. 2021, of conversion of Decree-Law n. 83, 27 June 2015, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Martelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u190	Senator Martelli, you don't have the floor. I'll call you back to order. You've already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u191	[[Comments of Senator Martelli]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u192	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been placed on the approval of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 83, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore immediately invite the Conference of Leaders to organise the relevant debate. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] The sitting shall be suspended and shall resume at the end of the meeting of the Conference of the Leader Group with possible votes. (The sitting was suspended at 18.29 a.m. and resumed at 19.08 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u193	The Conference of Leaders organised the discussions on the question of trust posed by the Government on Decree-Law No 83 on urgent measures in the matter of bankruptcy, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. For the general discussion on confidence, which will begin tomorrow morning from 9.30 a.m., one hour and twenty minutes were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The explanations of vote will follow. The call will therefore start around 12 o'clock. Tomorrow morning, before the beginning of the House's work, the Commissions are authorized to convene for urgent or expiry proceedings. The agenda for today's sitting is supplemented by a resolution on the constitution in court of the Senate in a conflict of attribution raised by the Court of Cassation in the matter of self-dedication. Since the Justice Commission has not yet completed the examination of the draft law on civil unions, the discussion of the measure is postponed to another date to be established by the Conference of Leaders after the summer break. Consequently, the scheduled sittings of Thursday 6 and Friday 7 August will not take place. The Conference of Leaders also approved by a majority the timetable for recovery after the summer break. The Assembly will meet again at 5 p.m. on Tuesday 8 September. The Commissions may normally convene from Tuesday 1 September and are nevertheless authorized to meet in August in relation to the needs of the respective areas of competence. In the week from 8 to 10 September, the draft law on balance in representation in the Regional Councils, the Statement and the Statement of State Budget, as well as ratifications of international agreements defined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will be examined. During that week, the Conference of Leaders will meet to establish the timetable for the following weeks.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u194	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration to the programme of the Senate's work for the months of July, August and September 2015: - Drawing of Law No. 1556 - Amendment to Article 4 of Law No. 165, of 2 July 2004, laying down provisions to ensure equality of gender representation in regional councils (final vote with the presence of the legal number)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u195	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted by a majority - in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the new agenda for the Assembly until 10 September 2015: [[Tuesday, 4 August ant. h. 9,30-20,30 - Drawing of law n. 2021 - Decree-Law n. 83, in bankruptcy matter (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade on 26 August) - Constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic in a conflict of attribution Wednesday 5 " ant. h. 9,30]] The closing time of the meetings shall be indicative and likely to vary from one Presidency to another in relation to the progress of the proceedings. Suspensions between 1.30 p.m. and 4 p.m. will be established at the discretion of the Presidency. The Commissions will meet again from Tuesday 1 September and are nevertheless authorized to convene on an earlier date in relation to the needs of the respective areas of competence. [[Tuesday, September 8 pom. h. 17-20 - Drawing of law no. 1556 - Balance in representation in the Regional Councils (final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Drawings of law no. 2008 and 2009 - 2014 Report and 2015 Settlement (final votes with the presence of the quorum) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs Wednesday 9 " ant. h. 9,30-13 Wednesday " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 10 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 10 September pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to draft law no. 1556 (balance in representation in regional councils) and to draft laws no. 2008 and 2009 (Rendiconto 2014 and Assestamento 2015) will have to be presented by 1 p.m. on Monday 7 September. Time distribution for discussion on the question of trust in draft law No 2021 (Decree-Law No 83, in bankruptcy matters) [[PD 5' FI-PdL XVII 5' M5S 10' AP (NCD-UDC) 5' Mixed 10' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 5' LN-Aut 10' GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV) 10' CRi 10' AL-A 5' Dissentents 5']] Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law Nos. 2008 and 2009 (Rendiconto 2014 and Assestamento 2015) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 8' FI-PdL XVII 36' M5S 32' AP (NCD-UDC) 31' Mixed 29' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI- MAJE 24' LN-Aut 21' GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV) 20' CRi 20' AL-A 20' Dissentienti 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u196	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u198	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, this calendar is bad news for Undersecretary Scalfarotto, who I imagine will be forced to resume the hunger strike, because the bill on civil unions, which had been planned to be examined before the summer break, not only will it not be incardinated tomorrow, but it will not be taken again in the week from 8 to 10 September either. Now, it is true that it was included in the timetable with the term 'where it is concluded', but it is also true that work has been slow for months now within the Commission and, since it was included in the timetable, three votes will have been taken, yes and no. I therefore propose to the House that the draft law on civil unions be incardinated on Thursday 10 September. There will be three days to be able to complete the work and, frankly, I also think that, because these are issues which do not concern the relations between the majority and the opposition, because there are different opinions both within the oppositions, both within the majority and within the groups themselves, the debate in this House, if not concluded in the Commission, is still a fundamental issue, because it is a draft law from the work of the Assembly. I know it is a complex text, but I do not think we can afford to take it out of the calendar without even giving the prospect of its inclusion in the resumption of work, as it has been expected for a long time. Everyone may have different opinions about its effectiveness or its need, but I believe it has been awaited for a long time by millions of people, because it concerns an issue that seriously concerns the degree of civilization in our country. For this reason my proposal is very dry: calendarization of the bill on civil unions Thursday, September 10, at least for its incardination.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u199	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u201	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I repeat what I said at the Conference of Leaders: it would be easy for me to try to put our issues on the agenda, such as citizenship income, contained in the draft law at the first signature of the Catalog, the DASPO for politicians, the provocative agent, the criminal discipline of the exchange vote and so on. But in order to be concrete and try to do something together my proposal to change the calendar, which seemed also shared in the Conference of the Leaders - in addition to the first-signed motion by Senator Girotto on the stabilisation of the ecobonus, which we will eventually make the commitment to schedule at the next Conference - is to insert the bill to ban the air gun technique. It was said at the Conference of the Leaders that the proposal would be accepted if unanimity had taken place. We can also find unanimity in this House, and that would also be a good sign because the 5 Star Movement believes that it has the right to see its own measure scheduled. Among other things - I just miss a minute, President - it concerns a topic that "sent down" the government. On an amendment there was a parliamentary transversality that brought the provision back to the House. Once back in the Senate, the Movement also showed a sense of responsibility by withdrawing all the amendments. There was a commitment - I think Senator Marinello remembers - to deal with this problem. We have responsibly withdrawn the amendments and, therefore, I would ask you, Mr President, to draw up this measure on Wednesday 9 September (morning or afternoon) which consists of a single three-line article. If the Commission wanted to fire him the day before, it could do so in two hours. I believe that this is an acceptable request from the whole House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u202	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's work to schedule for Thursday 10 September the provision on civil unions, made by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to schedule for Wednesday 9 September the bill on the prohibition of air gun technology, made by Senator Castaldi. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Secretary Senators agree with me that the result is so obvious that there is no need for counterproof. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, by order-recourse filed at the Registry on 19 December 2014, the Court of Cassation - civil united sections raised a conflict of attribution between the powers of the State vis-à-vis the Senate of the Republic with reference to the resolution by which the Senate approved Articles 72 to 84 of Title II (litigation) of the single text of the regulations of the Administration concerning the staff of the Senate of the Republic. I communicate that the Senate Presidency Council, at today's meeting, has resolved to propose to the Assembly of the Senate of the Republic the constitution in court before the Constitutional Court for the resolution of the conflict of attribution promoted by the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation by the order of 19 December 2014, n. 26934, and declared admissible by the Constitutional Court by Order n. 137 of 10 June 2015, filed on 7 July 2015 and notified to the Senate of the Republic on 14 July 2015; that the Senate of the Republic makes use of the patronage of the General Court of the State, as already happened in the previous phases of the same litigation. To report on the proposal of the Presidency Council, Senator Commissioner De Poli has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u204	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by order No 137 of 10 June 2015, the Constitutional Court declared admissible the conflict of attribution promoted by the United Civil Chambers of the Court of Cassation by order of 19 December 2014 No 26934. The conflict refers to the resolution by which the Council of President of the Senate of the Republic approved Articles 72 to 84 of Title II of the single text of the regulations of the Administration concerning staff. These are the rules for which the appeals of the employees of the Administration of the Senate against acts and measures of the latter are the exclusive responsibility of the organs of the autodichia. The conflict stems from the appeal brought before the Senate's domestic jurisdiction bodies by an employee and the subsequent appeal for Cassation, pursuant to Article 111 of the Constitution, brought by the same employee. The Senate opposed the appeal for cassation and the United Sections raised the question of constitutional legitimacy of Article 12 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate itself, in the part in which it attributed self-reporting to the latter on its employees. The Constitutional Court, in its judgment of 9 May 2014, n. 120, declared the aforementioned question of legitimacy inadmissible, since the Regulations of the Chambers were not enforceable in that place. However, it envisaged the possibility of a conflict of attribution between the powers of the State. The Constitutional Court, by order of 10 June 2015, n. 137, filed on 7 July and notified to the Senate on 14 July 2015, declared the admissibility of the conflict. Clearly the order was also notified to the Chamber of Deputies. At its meeting on 4 August the Council of President decided to propose to the Senate Assembly the constitution in court of this branch of Parliament to resist the conflict raised by the Court of Cassation. The Council of Presidency also considered it appropriate to propose that the General Court of the State be asked to continue the assistance given to the Senate in the previous stages of the same litigation. The Bureau of the Chamber of Deputies has already proposed to the House of that branch of Parliament the constitution in court, as is the case here today.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u205	One speaker per group may speak on the proposal from the Presidency Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u206	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u208	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is apparently an annoying issue, but it is not from my point of view. We must reflect on a privilege, guaranteed through the sedimentation of the decades, which frankly finds no rational justification for the treatment of civil servants, which sees a different jurisdiction between the employees of the Ministries and other public entities and the employees of the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate of the Republic, the Presidency of the Republic and the Constitutional Court. I believe that all civil servants should have the same judge and instead we subtract the employees of the House, the Senate, the Presidency of the Republic and the Constitutional Court from the judge that everyone should have. I am not referring to a single-level judge, as in this case, who continues to remain, because it is essentially a domestic and internal judiciary, but rather to the possibility of having a judge verifying the conduct of the underlying judge, as guaranteed to all other civil servants, who at first instance can see their point of view accepted or rejected, but with a balance through the degrees of judgment. Frankly, this privilege (which then is not a privilege, because basically there is no verification of the judgment at first level) seems to me a distortion that we must try to lead to a system by accepting the direction of the Court of Cassation. I do not see the need to be in court to reject what the Court of Cassation has already ruled.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u209	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u211	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I fully agree with my previous colleague, because, even in the light of the new reform with which we are changing the Constitutional Charter and also the Senate of the Republic, it is right to move the administrative autodichia. I repeat: this is an administrative self-declaration. Because one account is what happens in this House, which must be protected in the exchange of political views, and one account is what concerns the Administration itself, that is, employees, contracts and any other management that concerns these Palaces, which must be regulated like everything that happens outside. Therefore, they are not to turn us into a court of law to resist the conflict of attribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u212	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal approved by the Presidency Council. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal adopted by the Presidency Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u213	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u215	Mr Albano (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, words can become stones. The homophobic climate that every day we see fed by public characters and some politicians contributes to trigger violent and terrible episodes like those happened in Genoa in recent days. I am referring to the beating of mechanical orange on a bus to the detriment of a 40-year-old, beaten by four men and two women because they believed gay. The issue of civil rights and freedom of sexual orientation must be re-established as soon as possible, in which Italy is in a scandalous delay. The fact that this violence occurred under the eyes of the bus driver, who chose not only not to intervene, but also to be obvious, must make us all reflect on what kind of society we want. We must have the strength to fight against those who want to transform Italy into a nation of intolerant, violent, selfish and inhuman beasts. Therefore, I call for urgent approval of the bill on homophobia crime, which is being examined by the Senate Justice Commission. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u216	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u218	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, in the territory of the Province of Pisa in recent years several wind farms have been built that have upset the Tuscan landscape, which is the result of a balanced relationship between man and nature. It is precisely the sense of harmony that has made this earth the cradle of the Renaissance. The president of the Region of Tuscany Enrico Rossi wanted to go ahead with a wind farm project in this land: there was no qualms, despite the reservations expressed by the superintendence of cultural goods and landscape, and despite the activity carried out by the Committee of Citizens, called Committee on the Fog-no to the wild wind, and I emphasize the term "wild." Its Regional Council has in fact expressed a positive opinion that it would continue the construction of wind turbines on the hills of the Pisan territory with huge metal towers: the existing 15 are 125 meters high, and the next five, in anticipation, will reach even 175 meters, that is the height of three towers of Pisa one above the other. Wind energy is of course a useful resource for the community. However, it is necessary to assess the impact a wind farm has on the surrounding environment. In this case the visual impact hits an area of 360 degrees, involving many medieval towns, hamlets and historic villages of the Pisan hills. A disfigured environment has as an immediate consequence a negative impact on tourism and the quality of life of local people. Precisely for this reason, on July 18, I was in the territory of Pisa, together with the local citizens and the mayor of Chianni, Dr. Tarrini Giacomo, to see with my own eyes the wind farm of Santa Luce. On 3 August I tabled Question No 4-04411 to protect the health of citizens and to ensure regular monitoring of the area by all competent authorities. Many elements have been underestimated in this project, including the average exposure to magnetic induction over the long term and the consequences on the health of citizens. Part of these installations and cables pass near an elementary school; it is known that children are at risk of even greater damage to health, due to the higher incidence of childhood leukemias. The possible contaminations of the springs, both surface and underground, affecting the areas of the wind towers have been underestimated. Visual pollution has been underestimated: you raped a cathedral of national beauty. Then there is the noise pollution produced by wind turbines, which emit a continuous noise, disrupting the ecosystem and the surrounding fauna. Ironically, the local committee said that it will call the wind farm "Parco Enrico Rossi," so that the next generations will also remember who is the author of this disaster. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u219	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u221	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to bring to the attention of the President of the Senate and of this House the serious situation of the workers of Ikea. We have already put a question to the Minister for Labour and Social Policy and to the Minister for Economic Development. Ikea's workers in Italy are all over strike against the company's decision not to renew the company's supplementary contract which expires on 31 August. Of course, he unilaterally canceled this deadline. This means that all wage increases linked to Sunday and public holidays will be abolished, with the loss of production premiums plus retirement bonuses. I remind everyone that we are talking about workers most of whom (70%) have a part-time contract, so they receive 650-800 euros a month, when it's okay. If all this were to pass, for these workers the salary would be reduced on average by 150 euros per month. This is intolerable, Mr President; once again the dignity of the workers is torn apart. In my speech, Mr President, I would ask you to take charge of asking the Ministers to summon the company and, of course, the workers' representatives around a table, because once again they are going to undermine workers' rights. I think this is an intolerable thing in this country. My intervention is aimed at ensuring that this Government takes care at least of these disputes that are now abounding in Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u222	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u223	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u224	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, since we, together with Mr Malan, have been accused of being the instigators of the aggression of Genoa, with our attitude against civil unions, I would like to point out, having asked the prefect of Genoa, that what happened does not know. The sure thing is that the beaten person is a heterosexual, regularly engaged, who had been accused by a number of people of harassing a girl. You don't know why that fight happened. Another gay association said that we've come to the point that heterosexuals are also beaten if they're mistaken for homosexuals. But you don't understand how this happened, since the fight was born because someone accused him of harassing a girl. Therefore, before accusing senators of being senders and moral co-responsibilitymen of aggressions, as happened in five, six, seven or eight other cases where the news was totally false, it may be appropriate to wait to see that the competent authorities clarify what happened in Genoa. I therefore take the floor because this method of lynching colleagues - not those who have spoken - by giving immediately for good facts that no one has yet established how this happened, does not seem to me to be constructive at all. Similarly, it does not seem constructive to me to link that episode with the ongoing debate on gay marriage, civil unions, the uterus for rent and adoptions, which have absolutely nothing to do with what happened in Genoa.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u225	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-08-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-497.ana.u226	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, August 5, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.36.
