ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 26 March.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u4	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.07).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 19, 657, 711, 810, 846, 847, 851 and 868, in the unified text proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u11	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business and on my responsibility as President of the Justice Commission, which is not unlike the responsibility which, however, also concerns the presidency of the Senate. From this point of view, I would like to draw the attention of the rapporteur, Senator D'Ascola, and Vice-Minister Costa. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u12	Senator D'Ascola, as rapporteur, I would ask you to listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u13	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). We voted on Article 1 and Article 2. In particular, Article 2 deals with... [[Brusio.]] Come on, ladies and gentlemen. Excuse me. As I said, in particular Article 2 deals with the offence of concussion and during the last sitting an amendment by Senator Barani was rejected, which provided for an increase in penalty for the offence of concussion committed by a member of the judicial order. Having said that, Mr President, I would like to point out that there is a clear inconstitutionality in the text that we are going to approve, with the consequence of laying the foundations for a shuttle between the House and the Senate and, therefore, essentially, delaying the adoption of the bill on corruption that is so dear to the heart, as well as to the political forces, also to the country. The theme is quite simple. Following the vote on Article 1, the offence... [[Brusio.]] You have to listen to me, then do what you want.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u14	Colleagues, I think Senator Palma's is an observation that deserves attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u15	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Following the approval of Article 1, the basic penalty for the offence of corruption in judicial proceedings is six to twelve years. This penalty is greater than the penalty for the offence of concussion by induction (from six to ten years and six months), as well as the penalty for concussion, ranging from six to twelve years, which is equivalent to saying that the crime of corruption in judicial acts is punished in a more serious or identical way to the offence of concussion committed by a member of the judicial order. This clearly, from the point of view of reasonableness, exposes this measure to a censorship of unconstitutionality, because since the greater gravity of the offence of concussion is peaceful compared to the crime of corruption, there is really no reasonableness in imagining that the crime of corruption committed by a magistrate is punished to a greater or equal extent than the offence of concussion committed by the magistrate himself. It is true that there was a misalignment of sanctions even before, that is, with the Severino law, because the crime of corruption in judicial acts was punished in terms greater than the crime of concussion by induction, but this could find a justification in stating that the legislator considered the crime of corruption in judicial acts more serious than the crime of simple concussion committed by any public official. At the moment, however, when the penalties are increased in the way we have increased them and we are faced with a hypothesis not provided for by the Severino law, namely that corruption in judicial acts is punished in terms identical to the concussion by compulsion, the unreasonableness of the sanction is evident. In this respect, I therefore believe, where the Government never intends to avoid the shuttle between the House and the Senate, that is, to avoid exposing this rule to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which will inevitably be of constitutional illegitimacy, that there is still time for the Government and the rapporteur to present an amendment that identifies the offence of concussion in judicial acts and in this way essentially comes to heal a clear constitutional illegitimacy. This amendment would not be precluded from rejecting at the last sitting the amendment tabled by Senator Barani, because while that amendment posed itself as an aggravating circumstance with special effect to the offence of concussion, imagining an amendment that would constitute the concussion in judicial acts would be considered an autonomous figure of crime which, once the penalty was adjusted to the penalties provided for in the offence of corruption in judicial acts, would completely remedy the issue. It was my duty to represent this problem to the Assembly, to the Government and to the rapporteur, which seems to me to be of little account, after which it is clear that they will be able to do what they think best to do; but it is also clear that, at the time when the rule was to be changed in the Chamber, there would be a shuttle whose responsibility, with regard to the length of time, cannot but assume the Government, that is, if this shuttle should not be there and should there be the judgment of illegitimacy of the Constitutional Court, of this judgment of illegitimacy could not be taken over by the Government, having been the issue clearly denounced in the Chamber during the proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u18	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, in order to contribute to the debate after President Palma's speech, I can say that just yesterday, while Minister Orlando was on an official visit to the Massa Court, in a meeting with Undersecretary Ferri and myself, the Minister himself admitted that this misalignment the Senate itself should immediately remedy precisely in order not to render the norm unconstitutional. Therefore, in accordance with what Senator Palma said, I call on the rapporteur and the Deputy Minister to bear this point in mind, because my Group and the oppositions obviously oppose the substance, but in the face of a lapalissian constitutional inconsistency - the Constitution, I repeat, was made by our constituent Fathers who wanted equality, justice, reforms you guaranteed - it is necessary that the rapporteur and the government think about it well, in order not to fail to our fundamental Charter and to avoid the relay mentioned by President Palma. In order not to be accused of obstructionism, we are helping the government and the country, even if I disagree with President Palma, because I do not really believe that this bill is at the heart of the country - the political forces maybe yes - because the country is at heart economic and employment development and does not care about crimes involving a few dozen or a few hundred units in a year. It must be avoided that the perceived country is a different country from reality. We therefore believe that the Government should return to the question by listening to those who teach him how to make a correct law from the point of view of compliance with constitutional requirements. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u19	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 3,700. In the meantime, and in advance, in order to give account to the House of the subject of our conversation, I would remind you that we are talking about reparation, that is, the possibility of imposing on the sentenced person by sentence, the payment of a sum equivalent to what was wrongly received as reparation for the benefit of the administration of which he belongs. This is the scope of our intervention. The original text provided that the sum to be paid for reparation could be made not only by the judgment of conviction given in an ordinary judgment, but also by the judgment of conviction given as a result of a plea. My amendment proposes the removal of this last reference, namely the possibility of imposing the obligation of reparation only with the criminal sentence and not even with the sentence handed down as a result of a plea. Having said that, it remains to explain the reason behind this amendment, which is determined by two reasons. The text, as originally foreseen, therefore the text which provided for the possibility of ordering the reparation, either with the sentence of conviction, or with the sentence of sentence following a plea, did not yet compare with the government amendment introduced in Article 5, namely that which provides for the reason for the admission to the plea the obligation to return the illegal coming from the suspect who asks to settle. The rapporteur therefore raised the question of the convergence between this obligation, which is a real prerequisite for the possibility of requesting a plea (so whoever intends to settle will know in advance that this possibility will be conditional on the refund), and the sum to be paid as a repair, which was originally provided for in the text of Article 3. However, there was not only this aspect and I would like to refer here to amendment 6,300, tabled by Senator Lo Giudice - on which, apologizing to the Assembly, I anticipate the favourable opinion - in which it is envisaged not only the obligation to order the refund, but also to arrange for the reparation to be paid to the sentenced person in favour of the administration of which he belongs - just what we are taking away from Article 3 - in the case of the granting of the conditional suspension of the sentence; the latter institution which frequently intertwines with that of the plea all the times in which those who intend to settle the sentence also asks that the sentence be conditionally suspended. And then the reason for the deletion of Article 3 of what is then introduced by Article 5 - and will be introduced later also by Article 6 - is to avoid that more provisions with the same preceptive content converge on the same institution. The need is, of course, to determine some order and some rationality in order to avoid the crowding of similar institutions in the same case. We must also say - and here the rapporteur concludes his speech - that we have felt the need to harmonize the condemnation given as a result of ordinary judgment with respect to the condemnation given in the context of the plea. If this misalignment had not been carried out and, even before, it had not been thought of, we would have determined a radical deterrent to the plea: this must be clearly stated. The State has an interest in the plea whenever the conditions obviously apply, among which we know today that there is also an obligation to return it. To lay down the same sanctioning consequences for the case of a sentence of conviction handed down after a long sentence and a sentence of sentence handed down after a simple plea would have resulted in the obvious consequence that no one would have bargained and everyone would have preferred the solution constituted by the ordinary judgment. We have therefore had to differentiate, as well as prevent more sanctions with the same content from being envisaged in relation to the same institution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u20	Mr President, amendments 3.302 and 3.303 follow that of the rapporteur, to which they are broadly aligned, although perhaps my amendments are more binding, more concrete and more real. In my opinion, they were necessary to avoid a gap in the text; in any case, following the adoption of the rapporteur's amendment, I will withdraw them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u21	Mr President, since the judgements of impproponibility for the extraneous nature of the matter are unavoidable, I believe that among the amendments declared admissible there would also have been a very good amendment which proposed the same aims as the measure under consideration, which also concerns concussion. The aim of the text is to punish and possibly prevent the unfair behaviour of those who acquire public money, i.e. individual taxpayers. Unfortunately, there are incorrect behaviors that are permitted by law and therefore the sense of issuing a law on corruption in a country where it is largely affected by sanctions and preventive actions was precisely to intervene on those provisions that allow according to law to obtain the same effects that one has, for example, with concussion. With a certain amendment that was considered to be unimprobable, I wanted to address the problem of those millions of payment requests made by the Revenue Agency and not only by municipalities but also by all those who, on behalf of the State, are entitled to ask for money from citizens. These are payment requests relating to payments already made, which are fines, taxes or taxes; or, the most well-known case of these times sees the Revenue Agency stating that it has found no better identified errors in the complaint made by individual taxpayers, usually for modest figures that many taxpayers feel they are healing by paying rather than wasting time to collect the documentation, to make the appointment with the Revenue Agency, to talk to a manager, hoping to find him careful and well disposed, to get canceled the dispute. As there are too many cases in which this happens, my proposal was that the official responsible for these requests should be sanctioned, however modestly; here, in fact, unlike the rest of the measure, I do not propose years, decades, centuries or millennia in prison, but a sanction, because it is not possible for officials of the State to constantly ask citizens to pay for things that they have already paid. This is how the citizen sees the state as a hostile force; and this is how he tries not to pay even what should have been and should therefore be sanctioned, while the citizen affected by these demands should be modestly compensated. I have been careful to place the sanction in a much higher amount than the reimbursement given to the citizen in order to avoid problems of coverage; unfortunately I have met the contrary opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution by the Budget Commission, which would have had to give a particularly favourable opinion because in the end, since the person responsible for the undue request for payment is asked for 100 and the person who was hit is given 80 (without prejudice to certain expenses), there were wide margins for the State to cash even more; therefore, there would have been a further entry for the State and, at the same time, an act of justice would have been done, because it would have been said to the citizens: look at the State, when it is wrong, must pay exactly as the citizen has to pay. On the other hand, there was the opposite view of the 5th Commission, which can only be justified in one sense, namely that if undue demands for payment were no longer to be made, the State would lose too much; however, if the State is living with unjust payment claims, then we have some problem that goes far beyond Article 81 of the Constitution, because it is going to affect the fundamental rights of the Constitution, which are even more important than the respected Article 81, so respected that after 70 years of application we have 2 000 billion debts. Unfortunately, we have not done so in this case; perhaps there will be better opportunities, perhaps with an autonomous bill, because it is unworthy, unacceptable and seriously harms the civic sense of citizens that the state continues in millions of cases (not in tens) to ask citizens for money that they or they do not have to pay or have already paid. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u22	The first school that this week attends our work from the tribune is the secondary school of first degree "Bartolena Giovanni" in Livorno, which we greet. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u25	DI MAY (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business on a fairly serious matter. I wonder what is the point of continuing if Parliament's work is conducted in this way. The President of the Justice Commission (so not just a Member of Parliament) asked the rapporteur and the representative of the Government a question. I think it would be a good thing before we proceed with the work, since, among other things, a question of constitutionality has been raised as to how much we are going to vote if we can get an answer from the rapporteur and the government. Otherwise, of the two l'one: either they do not know what to answer or maybe the verb of Palazzo Chigi has not arrived. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Volpi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u26	Senator Di Maggio, the problem has been posed but we continue with the work. Those who want to intervene can do so, but there is no obligation to do so, nor can the Presidency dispose of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u29	Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. Mr President, we have been directly called upon to give an answer, rapporteur and government, and the answer is there. Of course, the problem posed by the President of the Commission is a known problem, but it is a known problem before and regardless of this reform. We are well aware that the crime of corruption in judicial acts does not exist today and that the crime of concussion is a generalistic crime. In other words, the subjective category of public officials does not provide for the distinction between any public official (to use this term improperly), and a magistrate, i.e. a public official who belongs to the judicial order. That answer would be enough. It is not a new problem, but an existing problem. Moreover, it must be said that we are not in a situation of sanctions imbalance, but of a perfect balance of sanctions. The President of the Commission says that an imbalance could be found in this context, because any concussion by the public official, who is also a member of the judiciary, should be a more serious matter. This is a problem of appreciation for the merits of the legislator. Until today. And I am also talking about the 2012 reform, in which the same Members who are suffering today also participated. (Senator Palma makes a gesture of denial.) But it is a reform approved in the previous legislature! I don't do a personal thing about it. I just want to say that it is a question that has been raised even when Law No 190 of 2012. (Senator Palma again makes a gesture of denial.) No question of constitutional legitimacy appears to have been proposed. This does not mean that it cannot be proposed now, but that it is an existing problem. Among other things, the amendment referred to by Senator Palma did not even make it possible to intervene usefully, because it merely said that, when the facts referred to in Article 317 of the Criminal Code are carried out by a prosecutor, that is, by a judge and, therefore, more succinctly, by a member of the judicial order, these facts should be punished differently. This amendment did not even allow a rewording, but the rapporteur does not say so because he says that, in the presence of a rewordable amendment, that amendment would have been accepted. By the way, it is a subject that would have involved a different meditation. For example, how do you build this concussion of the magistrate? In the duplic forms of concussion by compulsion? Of the attenuated concussion: the undue induction? Is it built with the aggravaters of the paragraph of the crime of corruption in judicial acts? In short, the debate on this point has not even been stimulated in the context of the discussions and, therefore, it was certainly an immature debate. There is nothing to prevent those who are going to raise this question from putting an explicit question, but proposing a text which takes on board all the problems which this text certainly did not take on board.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u32	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I appreciated the rapporteur's skill in trying to justify something that is not justifiable. In 2012, those of us who were here with me voted the anti-corruption law with increases in punishment, but the balance between the various crimes was maintained. What happened? That today there is no more balance: the concussion is punished less severely than corruption, even of corruption in judicial acts. It is really crazy not to recognize that there is a mistake that, among other things, leads to less effectiveness in terms of deterrents. As long as there's time, repent! Is there a possibility of correction? Let's use it, before we bring about a shock that would be worse than the current situation! Imagine what the scenario could be if, in the face of possible proceedings, a number of constitutional exceptions were raised on the lack of balance of the sanctioning system: it would result in the lengthening of the times of the corruption processes and would probably also involve influences on the prescription to which we all hold. I realize that there is an evasive answer, but at the same time it should be everyone's concern to make these rules concretely applicable and not just to make them a commercial! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u33	Mr President, with regard to Article 3, except for the amending proposal that I have allowed myself to propose, Amendment 3,700 calls for the withdrawal of all other amendments, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u34	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u37	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I listened to Senator D'Ascola's speech, an illustration of his amendment, and the assumption of the reasoning was that since Article 5 contains a different form of plea from the current one, which provides for the return of the sum, with amendment 3,700 he considered to delete the reference to Article 3 to Article 444 of the Code of Criminal Procedure because both the return will be provided for in Article 5. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall examine this shortly, when we have reached the amendment. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Excuse me, Mr President, but one thing is taken for granted that is not: what if, hypothetically, Article 5 does not have to be adopted? As - according to the rapporteur - the basis for his amendment is the adoption of Article 5, it is logical that we should vote first on Article 5 and then on Article 3. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So you are asking for the provision of Article 3? If you have a proposal on this, you can make it. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr Gasparri, I am sorry, but I made the proposal very clear and asked for the vote first on Article 5 and then on Article 3, otherwise what was the point of the reasoning I made? PRESIDENT. - The debate is In fact, this proposal of yours aims to set aside Article 3. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the proposed provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u38	Mr President, for the rapporteur, the issue is indifferent. If we want to vote on Article 5 first, the rapporteur has no objection to it. However, we should also vote on Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u39	Does the government also agree to dismiss Article 3? COSTA, Deputy Minister for Justice. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So there is a request to set aside Article 3 and the rapporteur and the government are willing to put it aside. After Article 3, Article 4 and then Article 5 must be examined, following the numerical logic. We shall therefore proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u40	Mr President, on mafia associations, I have been the author of some changes to the legislation in the past parliamentary term, both in terms of penalties and in terms of better rewriting the rules concerning the use of 41-a and other rules that serve to ensure a real fight against the mafia. My amendments propose to increase the penalties in relation to the current penalties, but not as excessive as in the text approved in the Commission. The excessivity of the penalty provided for in the text approved in the Commission entails, in point (c) of paragraph 1 of Article 4, the passage from a sentence of twelve to twenty-four years to a sentence of fifteen to twenty-six years. I would like to remind everyone that there is a general rule in our code, which sets the maximum sentence of imprisonment at twenty-four years. For those who do not remember it, for those like me who have argued for years that life imprisonment is a punishment contrary to our Constitution, I remember that it has always been said to replace life imprisonment with a sentence of thirty years. But to bring a sentence, even for an attack, to twenty-six years, that is beyond the maximum expected for imprisonment (twenty-four years) seems altogether excessive. I therefore propose that point (c) confirms the twenty-four years, i.e. the maximum sentence of imprisonment. In addition, through Amendments Nos 4,300, 4,302 and 4,305, I propose a remodulation of the increases so that there is consistency and that the maximum sentence is reached at the age of twenty-four. For this reason, I would like everyone, regardless of whether they belong to the Italian Force Groups or the Democratic Party, to do a minimum of reflection and control over what I have said, with the penal code in front of them. In this case, I believe that a minimum of attention should lead to the adoption of my amendments. [[Applause from Senator D'ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u41	Mr President, I would like to explain the reasons why we have tabled amendments aimed essentially at an increase in penalties. While we understand the difficulties presented by this legislative text with regard to an overall examination and the systematic design of the introduction of the rules, we have considered, in particular with regard to Article 4 (which provides for an amendment to the crime of Mafia-type association, including a foreign one), to propose amendments aimed essentially at an increase in penalties. This is a very serious crime, on which the whole Italian State must take a very firm position. Unfortunately, despite being in 2015, the Mafia is still a serious danger, presenting itself in an even more complex and difficult dress.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u42	Mr President, Amendment 4.0.302 proposes the amendment of the sanction provided for in the famous Article 416-b, which, as we all remember, was the subject of Parliament's examination last year with a result that saw us against the known, let us remember, reduction of the penalties for the crime of political-mafia exchange by 42%. We also assessed the amount of punishment reduced by that provision. That measure was justified (by the majority and, if I recall, also by the opposition that sits on our left) on the basis of a principle: the necessity of the asymmetry of the sentence between 416- bis (mafia-type association) and 416-ter (political-mafia-style electoral exchange). It was said that the malpractice of 416-b could not be of the same measure as 416-a. Today we have a great opportunity: the text that we are about to vote on provides, among the various measures that increase sanctions, as is well known, also the increase of sanctions for Article 416-a, whose penalty for mere participation is now punished from 7 to 12 years: in the text we are examining there is an increase from 10 to 15 years. It is, therefore, the right time to ensure that this asymmetry of punishment between 416 and 416-b becomes concrete and the adoption of our amendment, which raises the penalties of 416-b by providing for a imprisonment from 7 to 12 years, allows this purpose to be achieved. Faced with the sanctioning regime for the Mafia association, in fact, the substantial and effective asymmetry between the edittal punishments would remain. We do not really see why Parliament should avoid this possibility of restoring a sanction for the hateful vote of political-mafia exchange according to the criteria which are also respectful of the logic that the other political forces were raising to justify that reduction. It's the moment we can do justice. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u43	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u44	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u45	The rapporteur asked the authors to withdraw the amendments or the opinion was against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u46	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u47	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4,300, on which a request for a secret ballot has been made. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask the required number of senators to support this request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 4,300, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,301. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4301, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,302, on which a request for a secret vote has been tabled. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask the required number of senators to support this request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 4302, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.303, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,304, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.305, on which a request for a secret vote has been tabled. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask the required number of senators to support this request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 4.305, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4306 tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u49	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u50	Mr Manconi (PD). Mr President, I intend to vote against Article 4, in dissent from my Group, because I believe that in it, as in other precedents, the certainly ancient tendency is confirmed, but that has recently experienced its particular accentuation and irresistible pervasiveness, to a sort of punitive illusion entrusted almost entirely to the raising of the penalties and their tightening up. [[Applause from Senators Caliendo and Carraro]] A punitive illusion or, if you prefer, a bad repressive utopia that totally ignores the results offered by all scientific research carried out with criminal and sociological instruments regarding the absolute ineffectiveness of the privileged recourse to the increase of sanctions measures. And this ineffectiveness is recorded on the preventive level as well as on the repressive one and on that of the limitation of the relapse. As a result, I have to conclude that the general tendency to increase penalties, which qualifies many measures adopted in this legislature, seems to respond to requirements other than those of effectiveness in the fight against corruption. And, instead, it seems to assume a totally different meaning: more of an ideological-symbolic nature - in other words, of mere propaganda - than of an operational and repressive nature. Hence my vote against, in dissent from the Group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u53	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would not have made an explanation of vote if I had not listened and, of course, shared what Senator Manconi said just now. To tell the story, do not lose all hope by entering here and hearing that there is also a voice outside the choir of alignment, which makes a diagnosis, an objective examination and an irrefutable prognosis. Senator Manconi has spoken of scientifically proven, and that is the highest experts of the matter say that raising the penalties sic et simpliciter is useless, is deleterious; therefore, we are massacred, we are flogging. For what? To please who? To go where? Senator Manconi asked where the prevention was. No way, this big stranger. Why continue to engage in torture against those who commit crimes? Rather, we should prevent those who commit them from getting sick with these crimes; we should make sure that we implement our Constitutional Charter. A short time ago, Mr President, with Senator Giovanardi, we had some thoughts in a loud voice and said that if we Members of Parliament were to receive an association of notaries to tell us, for example, to review an approved law (which obviously takes away something from the notaries by giving it to lawyers), we would commit a crime only because we would hear them. If this association of notaries, in a meeting, said that we should be supported in the next elections, it would be a crime of voting for exchange; if they were to make a contribution, there would also be corruption. We senators, by approving this bill, if only we received someone who asked us something from a legislative point of view we would be subject to committing crimes one after the other and even to be found guilty simply for having done our duty. We are entering a state that is not police but judicial, and we know from history that the judicial regimes, of course judicialists, were the worst that our country had. Right now we're living one of the worst, and we're the cause of our evil. So, congratulations to Senator Manconi that he had the courage. This makes us hope that one day - who knows - many people may be going to mea culpa, declare that they have made a mistake and will drive out false prophets - I do not want who I am quoting, but in the Commission it is my point of reference and my target - to Lumia from the temple of democracy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u56	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I would like to make a point in announcing my vote in favour of this article. The increase in penalties, although I do not expect it to have an immediate impact on the frequency with which the crimes we are talking about will be perpetrated, nevertheless indicates a clear political assessment of this Parliament and a cultural evaluation in the country of reprobation for this kind of crime. I want to remind my colleagues that when it comes to prevention, these are typical crimes of the ruling class, that is, crimes of those people who in some way should constitute moral guidance for the country and whose lack of inclination in this sense has led this country to the conditions in which it is now. That is why I and the member I represent in the Mixed Group, Italy Work in Course, will vote in favour of this article.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u59	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the adoption of Article 4. I would remind my colleagues that we are dealing with 416-bis of the penal code (Mafia association crime). We've dealt with corruption so far. Article 4 provides for an increase in the penalties for 416-bis, which - I repeat - punishes the crime of direct mob association; we will then move on to a third pillar of this bill, which is the fake in the budget. As far as Article 416- bis is concerned, we are in this situation, colleagues: now the Mafia leaders, rather than committing so-called fine crimes (i.e. money laundering, extortion offences and crimes involving them directly in criminal acts of violence), are trying to organize themselves by making sure that this part, where they are provided for by the heavy penalties, is the prerogative of the so-called labour force, to reserve that part which is the driving force of the association, around which they know that the penalties are not as severe as for fine crimes. We are therefore in the condition, which has also been pointed out to us in the Anti-Mafia Commission, on all the territories for which, by release by end of sentence, we have very dangerous bosses who, as soon as they return out, immediately resume the leadership of the organization, becoming - these yes - a threat to democracy, this yes a lethal threat to the dignity of the person and, in many cases, also to the economic development of many territories. That is why the proposal that we are now preparing to vote, which is contained in Article 4, gives an advanced response to this evolution of the Mafia organization, preventing us, as a democracy, from being threatened by the Mafia bosses and ensuring that the State responds to this strategic and organizational evolution in time, moving from that day after day anti-mafia (which has always been short-sighted and always breathless) to a day before anti-mafia, which is able to affect that evolution by making democracy prevail over the Mafia organization.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u62	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am very surprised at the statements that have just made Senator Lumia. Having repeatedly called on the House to pay attention to the fact that the crime of mob association is being voted on here and, thus, substantially, from the point of view of suggestion, to recommend any kind of increase in punishment, in the end Senator Lumia's speech ends and resolves in two small circumstances. The first is to have known, travelling through the territories, of a certain current practice of the Mafia association. I have to tell you the truth: this is the first time that Parliament has legislated and changed the rule on "heared say" without any controls on the judicial reality of this country. The second is that, basically, the leaders of the Mafia would have the "furbishment" not to staining their hands of the most serious offenses or of the most serious offenses, so that they could escape the related sanctions. I said I was and am amazed. You see, we can increase the penalties as we want, so maybe you could join an amendment by Senator Giarrusso who, following perhaps the same reasoning as Senator Lumia, claimed for the heads of a mob association armed the sentence of life imprisonment and so we would all close the games. But, in reality, we are faced with a crime of danger. So there is no damage, there is no actual injury to an interest, except that of the danger offence, which is public order. We take note, then, that the crime is of particular gravity, but we cannot understand how this wild race for harsh sanctions can find satisfaction, in this denouncing its being exquisitely propagandistic, in affirming that the sentence from seven to twelve years goes from ten to fifteen, or, in a last case, that the one from twelve to twenty-four goes from fifteen to twenty-six years. In other words, the increases in punishment compared to the penalties already planned are so little account that they denounce exclusively the propaganda maneuver that is the basis of this measure. But so much so, you want to do it and you do it. But where I am truly amazed is when Senator Lumia says, and this is not the first time he does so, that now the leaders do not suffer the most serious crimes. Excuse me, but with everything we know about the Mafia, we know that the dome of our own thing or the leadership centers of the Calabrian cosche do not allow the simple adherent of the Mafia association to go and kill a person. Those murders can only be committed if there is not only the ok from the top of the criminal association, but also the ok, as spontaneous as I do not know, of those who command the territory in which that murder must be committed. Then I would like to remind Senator Lumia that this kind of attitude, that is to say to order, to allow, to plan a murder or a crime of equal gravity, for those who are at the top of that organization, triggers the criminality for the crime-end pursuant to Article 110 of the Criminal Code. If Senator Lumia had the complacency to refresh his memory by reading the sentence of the maxitrial 1 of Palermo or of many other sentences, for example of the trial on the war of the Mafia of Reggio Calabria or the trials of Raffaele Cutolo, he would be faced with the reality of leaders who had had life without having materially committed the murder, just because that murder had ordered. We will vote against Article 4, because we share in large part the words of Senator Manconi and we believe that this tightening penalty, expected the current roofs of punishment, is essentially useless and is nothing more than a evocative pitfall that the Government moves towards the population, quite similar to what is happening for corruption, that is, it is as if it means "See?." We have arrived, we are very hard on the Mafia association, but in reality what it does does does not result, because someone has to explain to me what difference there is, for example, between the current sentence of 24 years and the new, very severe penalty that is imposed by this law, of 26 years. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u63	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0,300, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.301, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.302, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.0.303 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u64	Mr President, the article which is intended to be approved and which has been voted on in the Commission says that the admissibility of the plea for a plea for a plea for a plea for a crime under Articles 314 and 317, i.e. all offences against the public administration, is subject to the full refund of the price or profit of the offence. My amendment, the 5,300, shares the rationale of this rule, but not the limitation to crimes against public administration alone, not only for a penalty balance, but essentially for equal rights between citizens. Does it seem normal to you that the retired person who collects the pension and who is snatched in front of the bank or post office counter will then see the thief settle and not return anything? Or the tax evader, whom you all say you want to fight, who can magnificently settle without giving back anything? Those who commit extortion, for example against you, will be able to settle without giving back anything. It is one thing if we affirm the principle that the applicant for a plea must return, if there is a profit, while the rapporteur, wishing to limit it only to this type of crime, wants to exclude it from Article 3. That's right, you want to leave the pecuniary reparation to Article 3, but here instead you come to create an unequal treatment. Senator Zanda did not attend the Department of the Center for State Reform, at the time of terrorism, when Pecchioli correctly invited everyone to balance the penalties and to take into account the rights of the poor people, those who least have and need to be protected. This article, on the other hand, introduces a differentiation without taking into account those who have the least. I wonder, then, what's the point? My amendment ensures that this rule applies to all offences and not only those against public administration. It's not like I'm subtracting the rule for crimes against public administration. Moreover, in some of these crimes against public administration there is nothing to return, because there is only the usefulness. I repeat, a diversity of treatment is created. The corruptor can magnificently make his plea without giving back anything, while the corrupt must return. If there is a general rule, according to which someone who has had a profit from a crime, any illegal gain, must return it to be admitted to the plea, it is one thing; but limiting himself to crimes against the public administration is inconsistent and determines unconstitutionality for different treatments compared to others. I note that the majority do not care about those which are legal objections, for the equality of citizens before the law, voting without realizing that situations of inequality are actually being created. I would therefore ask you to read my amendment, which maintains the obligation of return for those who are responsible for crimes against the public administration before they can ask for a plea: the only thing is that they will have this obligation as well as the other perpetrators. To limit this obligation only to those responsible for crimes against the public administration would, therefore, lead to a falling situation. It is possible, however, to provide financial compensation for these same offences, as set out in Article 3. With regard to the provision in Article 5, however, there would be a difference of treatment with regard to the persons offended, which would be treated differently, depending on whether it is public administration or poor Christians. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u65	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u66	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u67	Mr President, I call on the authors to withdraw the amendments referred to in Article 5; otherwise, the opinion is against them. With the exception of Amendment 5.0,300, of which I request provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u68	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u69	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,300, on which a request for a secret ballot was tabled, identical to Amendment 5,301. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask the required number of senators to support this request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u72	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first of all I would like to assure the House that this is the last speech I will make, certainly to the delight of Senator Astorre. This is the last speech I will make, after which I will raise my hands and begin to vote silently, as is necessary when everything is already written. In return, I would like to ask the House for a minimum of attention for this speech alone, considering that, while it is true that each of us votes according to the indications of the Leaders, it is also true that in matters such as these, each of us, when we vote, will have consequences of considerable importance in terms of the personal lives of our citizens. I personally believe that Article 5, which is the subject of this amendment, is unconstitutional. I am well aware that the question of constitutionality has already been rejected by the House, but I allow myself, for the little attention you intend to devote to me, to ask you why this type of conditional plea is not required for the corruptor, whereas it is for the concusso induced, considering that for the corruptor there is a sentence from six to ten years, while for the concusso induced - if I remember correctly - the penalty envisaged is far lower. I would like to know, above all, why the general corruptor, who is normal, can settle without the condition, whereas what he cannot do when he commits the same crime, for which the same penalty is provided: in other words, the corruptor of the members of the International Criminal Court, of the organs of the European Communities and of officials of the European Communities and of foreign States. I say this because in Article 5 there is no reference to the corruptor, there is no reference to Article 321 of the Criminal Code, while there is an explicit reference to Article 322-a. We are, therefore, faced with a difference of clear treatment, which will be the subject of the Court's attention. Even - but this is only a color element - this article provides for the impossibility of normal settlement, therefore conditional settlement, also for the offence of use flawed, whose penalty is from one to three years. Having said all this in terms of constitutionality, I would like to make the following reasoning with you: to adhere to the plea means the possibility of obtaining a reduction of the sentence up to a third. Let me remind all of you that asking for the abbreviated judgment means getting a reduction in the dry penalty by a third. Hence, from the point of view of convenience, the abbreviated judgment is more convenient than the plea bargain. It is clear, however, that, by settling the penalty, the limit from which the decrease must take place is also settled, which in the abbreviated judgment remains at least opaque and insecure. In your opinion, why in the world should a person - no matter whether he has confessed or not or has not cooperated - have access to the plea with the return of malt, when the same exact path from the point of view of punishment can safely reach with the abbreviated judgment? And there are not those who do not see and who do not know that the plea is useful not so much for the deflation of the judicial burdens, but for the effects that the sentence of plea has in all the proceedings, the debates and anything else to which the races of those who have bargained access. From this point of view it is extremely emblematic what has been said precisely on the specific point by the assistant prosecutor of Venice Nordio, who, to those who complained about a roof not particularly important of the pleas, replied to agree and that perhaps we are right, but thanks to those pleas the accusation in debate is fortified and, when people start to settle, they begin to settle everyone else. Because - as I have told you - there is no point in pursuing the plea in the given conditions, because the same effects - a little more or less - can be achieved with the abbreviated judgment, I believe that this article is profoundly wrong from the constitutional point of view, but mainly from the point of view of judicial practice. And then of the two: if we imagine a conditional plea for all crimes that provide for an economic or some other utility, in that case there is no problem of constitutionality. But you want to explain to me the reason why the induced concussion has to settle in conditional terms and the tax evader doesn't? Is tax evasion one of the most important and priority problems in this country? And do you not think that, in imagining the conditional plea only with reference to these hypotheses of crime and not also to tax evasion, armed robbery and the multiple-aggravated extortion, there is a great vulnus of a constitutional nature? Then the logic is: to follow a discipline for all crimes of this kind, including all those who present a problem of asset type; that is, to leave the plea as it is. And you also have to answer the following question: if the plea provides for the full return of the price of the profit of the crime and that proceeds or profits of the crime is seized in the fragrance of the crime of corruption, is the return a more than the proceeds kidnapped? And how does it work from a legal point of view? Does it act as a pecuniary reparation, in line with Article 3, certainly not being able to be a compensation for the damage? I have the impression that even here propaganda prevails, at least, over common sense of right. So, if the hashtag we're gonna run is: "All the corrupt in jail," and we invent this norm, it will be a propaganda hashtag. The reality will be that there will be no plea bargains and, because of their absence, the convictions in the debate will be less and less.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u75	Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to make a brief reply to Senator Palma's speech. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). But we are in an explanation of vote!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u76	Senator Palma, the rapporteur may wish to make an explanation of vote confirming or modifying his views. However, I think it is good that the rapporteur interacts with his remarks.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u77	Mr President, my assessments aim to ensure that the House can have bilateral information. In the meantime, allow me to reject the comparison between abbreviated and pleasing. It is true that the abbreviated determines the reduction of the entire third, where the pleas result in a reduction of up to a third. It is, however, clearly a question of completely different rituals. The plea determines the conclusion of that court case at that stage, and it is only possible for convictions up to two years of imprisonment, with the exception of the so-called extended plea, which is not even under discussion here. Of course, it should be noted that the abbreviated is possible regardless of the limits of the sanction. You can also abbreviate an indictment of murder, for which indictment no one would think to propose a plea, which would be totally inadmissible. The rapporteur says that - as always - only comparable entities can be compared, but not entities so different that they can determine the impossibility of a comparison that obeys the terms of rationality. A problem then arises in the sense of constitutionality, for an alleged unreasonableness and/or unequal treatment. The issue is certainly well known, but the fact is equally well known that the plea must be placed among certain premium institutions. Therefore, we are in the context of the reduction of the area of application of a premium institution, which is an absolutely permissible circumstance. The State provides for certain premium institutions and reduces their application with regard to situations which are considered to be immersive of the premium involved by that particular measure. We have demonstrations - for example - with reference to Article 4-a of the prison law. Basically, these are pre-eminent institutions and generalist benefits for a number of crimes that are foreclosed, on the contrary, for certain crimes. No question of constitutional legitimacy has ever been proposed and I believe that, if it had been, it would have been rejected, for the obvious reason that the principle of equality requires that identical situations cannot be treated in a differentiated way or that differentiated situations cannot be treated in the same way. However, if differentiated situations are dealt with in a differentiated way, there is no question of violating the principle of equality, not even on the side of Article 3 and, therefore, the principle of reasonableness.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u78	Colleagues, we greet the students and teachers of the Commercial Technical Institute. Calabrese-P. Levi di San Pietro in Cariano, in the province of Verona, who are following our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u79	Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 5,300, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators, identical to amendment 5,301, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,302. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.302 tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.303, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). On Amendment 5.0,300, the rapporteur called for provision. Will you now comment on this?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u80	Mr President, I confirm the request for provision just now.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u81	Amendment 5.0,300 is therefore set aside. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.301, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.0.302 is not possible. We shall resume the examination of Article 3 and the amendments previously provided for. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,300. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,300, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3301, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,700, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.302 and 3.303 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3304, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.305 tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.300, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.0.301, on which a request for a secret ballot has been tabled. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). President. - I do not insist on the request for a secret ballot. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.0.301, tabled by Senator Casson and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.302, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.0.303 and 3.0.305 have been withdrawn. Amendment 3.0.304 is unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u82	Mr President, Amendment 6,300 seeks to introduce a new paragraph into Article 165 of the Criminal Code, which already gives the judge the right to make conditional suspension of the sentence conditional upon the fulfilment of certain obligations. This defines itself as a necessary condition for the granting of the benefit in respect of offences of sin, concussion, corruption for the exercise of the function, corruption for an act contrary to the duties of office, corruption in judicial acts, undue induction to give or promise usefulness, corruption in person in charge of public service, corruption in organs of the European Communities and others. For these offences, the conditional suspension of the sentence is subject to the return and payment of a sum equivalent to the profit of the offence or to the amount of what is wrongly received by the public official or public service officer. It is, therefore, a financial fulfillment necessary for the recognition of the benefit, which would constitute title of reparation in favour of the administration injured by the conduct of the public official or public service officer or, in the case referred to in Article 319-b of the Criminal Code (corruption in judicial proceedings), in favour of the administration of justice. It is clear that we are not talking about compensation for the damage, which has other purposes and will remain without prejudice to this. We are talking about a measure that has the objective of intervening more radically alongside the measures we are taking, relating to the tightening of penalties, which have been motivatedly referred to as non-solving of the issue. This measure intervenes with respect to the profit of a crime and, at the same time, allows to reduce the erarial damage suffered by the public administration. The amendment also provides for a hypothesis where the person does not have the economic capacity to return that sum and, therefore, the compensation can be replaced by the provision of an unpaid activity in favour of the community. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u83	The opinion on amendment 6,300 is in favour, subject to rewording. It is proposed that the following sentence be deleted from the words: If the economic conditions are met up to the word "suspended."
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u84	In this case, would the opinion be positive? Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lo Giudice, do you accept the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u85	Yes, I accept the rewording. The wording of the last two lines relating to the heading of the article remains - I imagine - valid, where, after the words "in matter" are added the words: "conditional suspension of sentence" and "conditional suspension of sentence." Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. Sure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u86	For my colleagues, on page 41, the amendment is reworded by deleting the words "Whichever" to "Suspended." Senator D'Ascola, is still the part of the column that begins with "So"?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u87	Sure. I would just like to explain that the deletion proposal is determined by the fact that no socially useful work can be imposed because there would be a profile of unconstitutionality. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u88	We have made clear on this amendment. With regard to the additional amendments, since you have requested the provision of amendment 5.0.300, Amendment 6.0.300 must also be put aside for logical reasons. I therefore have the provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u89	I am against Amendment 6.0.301. Amendment 6.0.302 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u90	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u91	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 6,300 (text 2). Montevecchi (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u94	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like the rapporteur's attention. I do not understand the favourable opinion except for the fact that the amendment is signed by Senators Lo Giudice and Lumia. We have already voted on it, rapporteur. Article 3, which we voted on, says that the sentence of conviction for one of these crimes is always ordered to pay a sum equal to the amount unduly received by the public official or by the person in charge of a public service as compensation compensation in favour of the administration. Amendment 6,300 provides that in cases of conviction (...) the conditional suspension of the sentence is however conditional. But how is the parole suspended? If we have voted that the sentence, even one day in prison, involves the obligation to return and pecuniary penalties, why do we support this amendment? It is clear that any conviction, even within the limits of conditional suspension, already leads to this result. Perhaps the rapporteur was distracted or was pressured by Mr Lumia and, therefore, we were limited only to the second part. But, in fact, the text is the same as that which we have already voted on and it would be ridiculous to provide for the obligation of return for conditional suspension, when even one day in prison, that is to say any sentence, already bears that consequence. I believe that this time a reflection must be made in order to express a negative opinion or to call for the amendment to be withdrawn. I therefore call on the rapporteur and the Government to realise this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u97	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I signed up to speak on the same subject. Perhaps the Latin phrase repetita iuvant does not serve: we have already provided for this rule in Article 3 and now, for a matter of mere political civettery, to show out, perhaps to their friends and acquaintances, that an amendment has been approved and to pin two medals to the chest, it is repeated with an superfluous amendment, which - as Senator Caliendo has well grasped - does not really serve anything. Mr President, I invite Senator Palma to speak again... CARDINALI (PD). Stop! Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). ...because the things he said before were so lapalissian and truthful that it must be left a trace. In this Senate there is still someone who can think, reason and enforce the right enshrined in our Constitutional Charter. We cannot leave the word only to those who understand the mafia, to those who mean a little too much mafia: Senator Lumia's speeches are of a unique experience and knowledge that make me shudder. We must, therefore, contrast the strength of our reason and of our guarantee to those who, instead, sloppyly, with narcissism and political civettery, want to pin a new medal by means of an amendment that is not useful at all, because the norm is already foreseen, as Senator Caliendo has well grasped. We are making a photocopy amendment, which is obviously only for propaganda and certainly not for justice.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u99	Rapporteur, you have already given your opinion on the amendments under consideration. Will you give an explanation of vote on behalf of your Group? Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. No. I would like to give an explanation to the House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. Mr President, there is no doubt that this is a special matter. We are not saying that condemnation is conditional on something (the evocation of Article 3). Amendment 6,300 specifies what the conditional suspension of the sentence can be made subject to. It is clear, then, that the conditional suspension of the sentence is a benefit that applies in the cases of conviction: if the defendant is acquitted, the sentence must not be suspended, and this seems to me to be quite evident. In this particular case, however, we are talking about something already provided for in Article 165 of the Criminal Code, which regulates, among other things, the circumstances and obligations to which the benefit of the conditional suspension of the sentence can be subordinated. Now I repeat what I said at the beginning, taking into account the reasons for the favourable opinion on the conditional suspension of the sentence. In this case, among other things, Article 165 evokes not only the return, but also the reparation, so much so that, leaving aside and taking into account the opinion in favour of the amendment to the first signature of Senator Lo Giudice, I said that the reason for the abolition of the sentence in cases of plea, referred to in Article 3, as well as with reference to Article 5, was also justified in amendment 6,300, on which I would have expressed a favourable opinion. In short, what is lost on the side of Article 3 is recovered on the side of amendment 6,300, as I said at the beginning of the presentation of opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u100	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,300 (text 2), tabled by Senator Lo Giudice and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 6 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.0.300 is set aside, being linked to amendment 5.0.300 previously set aside. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.301, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.0.302 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 7, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u101	Mr President, at last some amendments do not speak of punishment but of the prevention of corruption. You will recall that, in 2012, we voted on a law with, to a large extent, provisions for the prevention of corruption, which many times is not applied, and to a small extent, the increase in penalties, which we are proposing today with this bill. Article 1, paragraph 3, gives the Authority anti-corruption, presided over by the magistrate Canton, in the face of conduct contrary to the rules on transparency, the power to order all companies to eliminate acts or clauses contrary to these rules. When the elimination is ordered and the company or the contracting station does not perform and does not conform to the order, what happens? Should the Anti-Corruption Authority address the TAR or the ordinary court to obtain the elimination of that measure, when the work has already been completed? Then, with a resolution adopted by the Council of Ministers, I believe that the anti-corruption authority can take measures to replace the competent administrative bodies, after giving that order to which I referred. The next amendment 7.301 provides, by amending article 1, paragraph 32, of the same law of 2012, the transmission of a series of news, in relation to facts that pertain to the procurement procedure, to the Authority anti-corruption, which at the same time must be published online for the duties of transparency. For this reason, the amendment provides that the transmission of these news to the Authority should take place every six months, while, for the purpose of publication, those news should be transmitted to the Public Works each year (and will be published each year). In my opinion, for the purposes of the anti-corruption Authority's activity, it is necessary to provide for the same news to be transmitted from the contracting station to the Anti-corruption Authority. These are two amendments that intervene in the phase before the execution of the works and therefore aim to avoid any hypothesis of corruption through greater transparency and greater knowledge by the Anti-corruption Authority.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u102	Mr President, the G7100 agenda commits the Government to taking a concrete initiative. There is a data that results from the presentation of the report of the independent assessment body on the activity reported by DAC, the National Anti-corruption Authority. From the last report delivered emerges a data in relation to the control of 98 entities obliged to present their evaluation of transparency, including 35 local health companies, 8 independent authorities, 20 municipalities, 13 ministries and 22 regions. Well, 92 percent of the Ministries have completed all the procedures envisaged, publishing the OIV certificate (i.e. the one relating to independent evaluation bodies), except the MISE, the Ministry of Economic Development. With this agenda we would like the Government to take all appropriate steps quickly so that this lack, which involves a Ministry of really important characteristics, can be filled. We ask that we make it possible for 92 per cent to reach 100 per cent of the Ministries who have carried out all the OIV practices. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the content of the G7-104 agenda incorporates the content of amendment 11.0.309, which was declared inadmissible. Frankly, I am missing the reasons for this choice and, indeed, I ask, if possible, for an explanation and an invitation to reconsider this decision if necessary. The English speak of revolving doors to designate the phenomenon of the occupation of institutions by the political class to arrange relatives, friends and friends of friends and to dispense favors. It is more than a well-established practice with us. I am thinking of all those politicians who in the last parliamentary term sat in Parliament or were members of the Government, who were later assigned positions in foundations, authorities, public bodies and bodies of various kinds, sometimes of dubious usefulness, even with the necessary differences between purely formal and symbolic roles and places of less media visibility, but of great power. The problem found a solution only at local level, thanks to a decree in 2013. Full freedom, on the other hand, for big fish (it is done to say): anyone who has held national roles (thus former ministers, former parliamentarians and former Undersecretaries) can migrate at will from one post to another, without any limit. 18.01 (Fucksia followed). The President of the Anti-Corruption Authority himself, Raffaele Cantone, made it clear that this gap must be filled. What better chance than this? I would remind you that this amendment affects an implementing decree of the Severino law, which dealt with the issue of anti-corruption. That is why I have tabled only one amendment to the text under discussion, which goes in this direction, preventing the relocation of the former for two years since they left the Palace. The 5 Star Movement has always said this: administrative management must be independent of parties. No more mischief, no more power games, no more favoritism. Daily this amendment could be called an anti-switched rule. I, more politely, borrow the words of President Renzi, who on October 22, 2012, addressing Giovanna Melandri, recently appointed president of the MAXXI Foundation - National Museum of Arts of the 21st century, said: There is a life out of politics, there is a world, the beauty of relationships, to put itself at stake in the private world, how is it possible that there is still a way out like MAXXI when you leave Parliament?I define it as: "norma" to protect the beauty of relationships." I invite everyone to vote on it. I imagine that, in particular, colleagues in the PD, based on the words of their secretary, will have no problem giving their yes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u104	Madam President, I rise to explain the agenda for the G7105. Corruption is rampant, because mobsters and corrupts have common ground: Get rich. Corruption in Italy is a phenomenon of an absolutely rampant system, because it has never been effectively opposed and fought, but indeed for too long tolerated and justified, and on whose front there has been a "decisive backwardness" when ample prospects of impunity for the false in the budget have been assured; I use and share these words of the national anti-Mafia attorney Franco Roberti. The 5 Star Movement has always been hard on the fight against corruption and the Mafia and we demonstrate it every day. At the moment, we are faced with an inadequate and contradictory regulatory system and I am not just referring to the penalties for the corruption crimes we have repeatedly discussed: let us consider, for example, the discipline of the inconferability of administrative tasks. Currently, Legislative Decree No. 39 of 2013 identifies cases of inconferibility of management positions and top administrative responsibilities, which involve the exercise of administrative and administrative functions and management in public administrations and private law entities subject to public control, internal or external to public administration. They are irreconcilable, i.e. the assignment of assignments is precluded, in respect of those who have reported criminal convictions even with a judgment not passed in court for the offences provided for in Chapter I of Title II of the Book according to the Criminal Code; those who have held offices or held offices of bodies governed by private law or financed by public administrations or carried out professional activities in favour of the latter; those who have been members of bodies of political direction. From a first reading, there is a clear contradiction between the causes preventing the recruitment of administrative posts: the so-called erarial damage, consisting in the damage or loss of goods or money produced to its own or other administration, or in the failure to achieve capital increases, as provided for in Article 1223 of the Civil Code, is not covered. In summary, if a person causes erarial damage and is sentenced to compensate a public body for the damage caused, he can continue to operate for the same institution and continue to take on other duties, perhaps causing further damage in other administrations. That is why we are asking the Government, with this agenda, to make two commitments. The first is to provide for the immediate withdrawal of every task entrusted by the public administration, by public bodies, by private law bodies under public control, to persons condemned - even with non-final judgment - for administrative offences, with particular reference to the erarial damage. The second is to provide, through appropriate regulatory interventions, for the increase of the legal situations of inconferibility of the administrative tasks, also for persons condemned with non-final judgment, for administrative offences, with specific regard to the erarial damage. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u105	Madam President, I would like to explain the agenda for G7 102 not so much to ask for it to be voted on, but to highlight the strangeness of the rules and how this government interprets anti-corruption. Article 7 provided for a set of rules that provide for a fundamental role of DAC, the National Anti-corruption Authority. They were also introduced by Decree-Law No. 90 of 2014 of the norms that concern the DAC and other its tasks. Yet with the law of stability passed a few months ago by the Chambers a reduction of 100,000 euros, for each of the years 2015, 2016 and 2017, of the resources allocated to the National Anti-corruption Authority. If this is the way to interpret anti-corruption, if this is the way to interpret the increase in the functions of an organ that is now proving important and fundamental in denouncing and also in expressing important opinions on anti-corruption, we do not understand what the logic is. Our agenda commits the Government to restore the funds that, in our opinion, have been recklessly cut to the DAC for the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. We invite the government to restore those funds, perhaps by removing them from some other waste. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u106	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u107	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u108	Madam President, I am against Amendment 7,300. With regard to amendment 7.301, the following rewording is required: In paragraph 32 of Article 1 of Law No 190 of 2012, after the words "cleared sums" insert the following: "contracting stations are also required to transmit the above information every six months to the Commission referred to in paragraph 2" In these terms of rewording, the opinion is in favour. I am therefore against Amendments 7.302 and 7.303. I am therefore in favour of the G7100 agenda if the following rewording is accepted, I could say traditional: add after the words "the Government" the words "to assess the appropriateness of "to." I am therefore opposed to the G7101 agenda and to the G7102, G7103 and G7104 agenda if accepted as a recommendation. I therefore object to the G7105 agenda and to the G7106 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u109	As regards the amendments aimed at introducing additional articles, I would point out that amendment 7.0,300 has been withdrawn, that amendments 7.0,301 to 7.0,306 have been declared inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u110	Madam President, I am against Amendments 7,0,307 and 7,0,308.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u111	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u112	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7,300. Montevecchi (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u115	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like everyone to listen to me. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u116	Let's try it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u117	Colleagues, Senator Caliendo asks for the attention of the Chamber. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). We are talking about the supervisory powers of the Anti-corruption Authority on public administrations. Article 1 of Law No 190 of 2012, point (f) provides that the Authority shall exercise supervision and control over the effective application and effectiveness of measures taken by public administrations, pursuant to paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article, and on compliance with the rules on transparency of administrative activity provided for in paragraphs 15 to 36 of that Article. The same Article 1 also provides, in paragraph 3: For the performance of the functions referred to in paragraph 2, point (f) - what I have just read - the Commission - that is, the Anti-Corruption Authority - exercise inspection powers by requesting news, information, acts and documents to public administrations, and orders the adoption of acts or measures required by the plans referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article and by the rules on the transparency of the administrative activity provided for in paragraphs 15 to 36 of this Article and from the other provisions in force, that is, the removal of conduct or acts conflicting with the plans and rules on transparency cited. The Commission and the administrations concerned shall report, on their respective institutional websites, on the measures taken. In the event that the public administration fails to comply with the order of execution of certain acts, with my amendment I have proposed that, following a resolution adopted by the Council of Ministers, as a public administration, the anti-corruption authority may take the necessary measures to remove acts and conduct contrary to the rules on transparency. However, this amendment is rejected and we do not understand why. This is a fundamental rule in order to avoid corruption. I would therefore like to understand the reason why an opinion has been taken against it. The Anti-Corruption Authority already has the powers to intervene, pursuant to Article 1 of Law No 190 of 2012, which I recalled earlier. The problem is another: if public administration does not adapt to order, what do we do? Are we going to the TAR or where? In any case, we would in fact have a conflict between public administrations. I believe that the Presidency of the Council of Ministers - which is also the summit of the public administration in our country - can decide from time to time, and only in exceptional cases, the authorisation for the adoption by the Authority of the anti-corruption measures imposed by the plan. Look, the Authority may even adopt the plan, but for the suppressive measures of acts not inspired by transparency, it can only limit itself to order, it can do nothing else. My question is because it was given an opinion contrary to this amendment. This is a serious rule for those who want to fight corruption effectively. I am told the specific reason, because opposing it means saying, no more or less, that we do not want to make the power of the Anti-Corruption Authority effective.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u118	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,300, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Caliendo, do you accept the proposed reformulation of amendment 7.301? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.301 (text 2), tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.302.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u121	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, surprisingly, I did not have time before to speak with the Deputy Minister and the rapporteur on Amendment 7.302, but I see that there is an opinion against it. I would like to point out that this is a regulatory link, given that the Commission for the evaluation, transparency and integrity of public administrations no longer exists, because today its tasks are absorbed by the DAC. I give the regulatory reference, if it can be useful for a feedback: the rule that assigned the DAC the functions of the Commission is that provided by Decree-Law No 101 of 2013, Article 5, so I think it is entirely reasonable to provide for this correction of the text, which is only formal. Otherwise, if the majority and the government feel that they need time, I propose that we set aside the amendment to check whether the above is true. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Ascola, it's a kind of coordinating proposal. Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. The Commission referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 7 shall be DAC. BUCCARELLA (M5S). But why do you use the term "Commission"? Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. It says in the law. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, this is a recommendation that DAC has made to the Government and that perhaps has escaped: it is reporting No 2, made in February 2015. It is a question of identifying which authority has the power to grant the penalties provided for by Legislative Decree No. 33 of 2013 (the famous implementing decree also of the Severino law in the matter of transparency of public administrations). We are therefore talking about the legislation that imposes the publication on the Network of remunerations and assignments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buccarella, you have already spoken for an explanation of vote. BUCCARELLA (M5S). In fact, I am voting in favour of it, and I hope that, with respect to the contrary opinion of the Government and the rapporteur, we can have a moment of resistance and verification of what I am saying, even by putting aside the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I figured it out. I would ask the rapporteur whether he accepts your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u122	Opinion was adopted in favour of the G7100 agenda...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u123	Senator, we'll talk about the agenda when we get there, otherwise it gets confusing.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u124	Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. We were clarifying the reason for the opinion against amendment 7.302, because we thought that there was a connection with the G7100 agenda, to which we had given a favourable opinion. Moreover, as a general matter, because otherwise we do not understand the reasons for yes and no, it was repeatedly said in the Commission also in the course of its work that preventive rules are absolutely necessary but that, in the context of the debate, there was no rationally oriented and comprehensive document on prevention. The text on prevention must be an organic text. The Commission considered that it could not intervene in an extemporaneous way on the issue of prevention, because this issue must be the subject of an overall text. We cannot intervene from time to time, so much so that favourable opinions are aimed at information requirements, to widen information. We have, in fact, felt that we did not move anything or that we did not cause any conflict with what will have to be done afterwards.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u125	The rapporteur's opinion therefore remains the opposite. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.302, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.303, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Petrocelli, accept the rewording of the agenda G7,100 or insist on its vote. PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, I accept the proposed reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G7100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I would ask the authors if they would insist on voting on the agenda for G7.101. CASTALDI (M5S). Yes, I insist. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G7.101, presented by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agendas of the G7,102, G7,103 and G7,104 are accepted as a recommendation. I would ask the authors if they would insist on voting on the G7105 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u126	Madam President, on this agenda we have called for immediate withdrawal, for every post in the public administration, for those convicted of administrative offences or erarial damage. With this opinion against the Government and the rapporteur they have not shown the slightest intention to go in this direction, not even expressing a favourable opinion with rewording or as a recommendation, which I would not have accepted anyway. Instead of pointing out that you want to go in this verse, you have made a miserable and bad figure. It was about being on the side of dishonests or dishonests. And we figured out which side you're on! I therefore insist on voting on the agenda. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u127	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G7.105, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G7106 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 7 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 7.0.300 has been withdrawn. Amendments 7,0301 to 7,0,306 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.0.037.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u130	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, I rise on two of my amendments, 7,0,307 and 7,0,308, which go in the direction of prevention. If newspapers are opened today, it is said that study assignments and arbitration are spurious forms adopted by public administrations for corruption. The courts and the newspapers are full of them. And the same goes for books written by great politicians and statesmen, or pseudotals. The assignments to professionals next door, or the study next door, are a practice adopted by over 8,000 Italian administrations and, of course, by participating companies. It was a way to tell you: beware that corruption is in these study assignments. [[Comments from the PD Group. Call the president back.]] In the arbitration and in the custody of contracts for the production of instrumental services, those data in house, that is to say to own internal: they are constituted societies whose managing director is of own party and then the administration gives to this society the assignment and entrusts to it services of various kinds. This amendment was a form of saying: if you really want to fight corruption and evil, this is the way. Someone has shown you the way, but we understand that this path you do not want to pursue and you want to continue, with your red cooperatives, to conclude your dirty business!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u131	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.0.307, tabled by Senator Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.0.308, tabled by Senator Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 8, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u132	Madam President, Article 8, which concerns the famous fake in the budget, has had an extremely difficult and rough course and is perhaps one of the few juicy parts that remain in this bill, which has been infinitely dismembered and in which the traces of the fundamental will have been lost a little bit. [[Brusio.]] As Senator Caliendo says, I'd like to be heard. In Amendment 8,300 I wanted to incorporate a whole series of principles which I have seen colleagues have tabled separately in subsequent amendments. In tabling this amendment, I also make a kind of statement regarding the tracks, which will be accepted or not accepted, which are included in the subsequent amendments. In essence, what happens with the fake in the budget [[. (Brusio. Senator Mussini stops talking.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u133	Unfortunately, in long discussions, Senator, it is very complicated. I beg Senator Lumia and the government representative not to entertain themselves in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u134	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). What is significant is that we are talking about fraud in the budget, a subject that has been so passionate, both inside and outside this House, that everyone wants to pin stars on their chests, so maybe we should understand what we are doing and what we are not doing. With the amendment tabled by the Government, there is an operation that has been repeatedly criticized here in the House, namely the raising of penalties, which, however, are carefully retained within the five years, which brings them back, not randomly but willingly, in that it has been approved and has not yet entered into force (because it will take effect in a couple of days) and that is in the infamous "tenuity of the fact". We are therefore thinking about an article within which we find penalties that are expected to fall within the meaning of the fact in two days' time. Not only that. It is true that a modification of the penalties is introduced, but it is also true that within this formulation, with some indications, the scope of applicability of the rule is so limited that in fact we re-introduce a fake into the budget, however, making it substantially not applicable. I would like to explain the content of my amendment. In the meantime, I propose replacing the current wording of Article 8, which is an unfair profit, either for itself or for others. In fact, this is a limitation of the scope of application; it is difficult to prove that the activity has been carried out in order to achieve an unjust profit. However, it also happens that fakes in the budget are often not intended to achieve an immediate profit, but rather to conceal losses, in order to pretend that an activity is still in good health, when perhaps it is completely decorated. It could be said that this is an unfair indirect profit; but, in fact, we can also say that sometimes there is no return for individuals who are the perpetrators of the crime or for someone else. However, the fact remains that this is a serious damage that is caused to those who have or have had relations with that company. Another aspect that I find extremely important is the fact that the expression "material facts" has been inserted instead of "information" because the expression "material material facts" that do not correspond to the true "real" excludes all the part relating to the assessments, which, among other things, belong precisely to the top, at the time when the budget is formed. Exclude evaluations and consider only material facts is not sufficient. Let me give you an example. Let's say that I have 100 vehicles in a warehouse, to which check, for my assessment, a value of 10,000 euros each; I will have a total value of 1 million euros. It is clear that the material fact would be to change the number of vehicles I have in stock; however, if I go to change the value of the vehicles themselves, I communicate a false information, but not a material fact not responsive to the truth, because we remain in the context of the assessments. Another aspect is the suppression of the adverb, which is aware, as well as the suppression of the expression "concretely suitable to mislead others." This is in fact a further limitation of the possibility of applying this rule, because there needs to be a deceptive course and, at the same time, this must be done in practice. Among other things, the problem of the exact definition of the wrong person is not solved. It is said, in fact, to mislead others. Who else? Among other things, the definition of these "others" also depends on the ability to read a balance sheet and to fall into error; it therefore depends on the subjective qualities of these "others," which should in practice be misled. The deletion of the adverb shall be requested for the same reasons as those which lead me to ask for the deletion of the expression 'concretely suitable to mislead others'. The amendments to Article 9 will be discussed later. These same considerations that led me to table this amendment to Article 8 are also the basis of the amendments to Article 10, where the same content is repeated. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u135	Madam President, Article 8 is a step forward, because the principle of criminality of fake company documents is re-introduced and the jurisdiction is allowed to return to protecting the interests of creditors and savers. But there are too many stakes and traps. It distinguishes between the scope of unlisted companies and that of listed companies and this may be reasonable. Indicted conduct is the display of facts that do not respond to the truth, and this does not bother me because all the facts are, to some extent, the subject of evaluation, more mail, less mail. An estimate can be clearly false if totally detached from the values contained, but the proposed text forges a specific crime with such a scale that seems to be made specifically for the Berlusconian aggressors. It puts on the false commission and the omissive one; there is that in the listed companies and that of the unlisted companies. Then there is the need for falsehood to be concretely qualified to mislead the reader. As you can see, the objects of the judge's investigation are multiple, but it is not enough: it is expected... [[Brusio. Vice Minister Costa conversa con il relatore)...]] Madam President, who am I talking to? There's no one from the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u136	Senator, I can't force this. I can only ask my fellow Members to be silent, the representative of the Government to sit at the desks for the Commission and the rapporteur to listen to the explanation of the amendments that will be the subject of his opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u137	I was saying, that is not enough: there is a mitigating circumstance for the small facts and a criminal hypothesis for those of particular tenuity. So, I wonder, and I say, what good is that term "relevant"? There is a limit of purpose; there is the suitability of conduct; there are mitigating and criminal assumptions. What good is it to say that the only false punishable is the substantial or relevant one? In addition to being logical, that word is also a legal grammar. What may be relevant to Varese's judge may not be relevant to Brescia's.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u138	Colleagues, please lower the buzz because it is truly unsustainable.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u139	RICHIUTI (PD). What is relevant to the mechanical goods sector in Monza may not be relevant to the agri-food sector in Treviso. In short, relevance is a completely indeterminate concept and contrary to Article 25 of the Constitution. I therefore call on you to approve Amendment 8,311, which, moreover, meets the points made in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u140	Madam President, I would like to remind everyone that the phrase 'even though it is the subject of assessments' has always been added in the fake in the budget, when it comes to communications that do not respond to the truth. I asked the rapporteur and the government during the Commission's examination whether it is no longer punishable. I have been told that it will be the case law that says yes or no. I would like to remind you of an article on the "Corriere della Sera" signed by Ferrarella, which says that evaluations have been expunged from the text. Therefore, at a literal reading, the text leads to the exclusion that assessments may be part of the crime. Compared to this incongruity and indecision or generality of the norm, as you want to call it, I ask you to evaluate what can be the position of a foreign company that must come to invest in Italy. Before investing, he obviously wants to understand the criminal rules that oversee the proper management of social information. In the case of a species, the question is as follows: if you were in the place of the CEO of that company, you would not be able to say whether the term "even though the subject of assessments" is present in the text. I believe that this diction must not be included. In fact, when it comes to estimates, the news doesn't turn out to be true... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u141	Senator Azzollini, his voice is also above that of the senator speaking on the microphone.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u142	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Let's imagine that a certain fact, that I have to communicate depends on estimates and that, hypothetically, my experts and consultants to whom I addressed are four accountants who, in the evaluation, have given an estimate of a certain type; one tomorrow a prosecutor could contest it, saying: since estimates said 100 and my technical consultant says 105, you committed the crime. Therefore, first, it is necessary to specify within the text whether the expressions which do not respond to the truth include the assessments. Then we will see, in Article 2621-a, what this is all about. In the event that the assessments are understood, we have to ask ourselves the problem of the deviation limit, otherwise everything is punishable. Do we want to permanently sink the Italian economy already in crisis? Do we want to make small businesses unable to function? Free to do that. For the moment, Madam President, I would just like to say that this clarification is necessary within the text. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u143	The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u144	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u145	Madam President, of course, both in the introductory report and in the speech I made when I commented on the amendments, there are all the answers to the questions that have been raised. No one has the presumption of saying that his answer is the truth, but, from the point of view of the completeness of the arguments, each of the objections that have been proposed here has already had, on two occasions, an articulated answer. Since, however, it is right that the debate should be as detailed and detailed as possible and that the issues, even though dealt with, should be dealt with further, given that the arguments used have not had the persuasive effect of leading to a number of considerations, it is right that the rapporteur should be given further consideration. The first of the questions proposed concerns the relevant facts. I have repeatedly said that the term'relevant', the adjective'relevant', is not used as an indeterminate quantitative element. In this case, the constitutional problems could be raised in relation to the judgment of 1989, No 247, of the Constitutional Court. I use the conditional (-) because it is not true that that sentence is generalising. That judgment makes it absolutely clear that it is not possible for the whole burden of disvalue of a particular case to be affected by indeterminate quantitative elements of the case because, if this burden of disvalue were to be imposed on elements of the conduct, the Constitutional Court considered that the principle of legality and reasonableness would not receive any injury. In fact, there would still be an important - and I come back, not by chance, on the adjective'relevant' - disvalue of conduct. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u146	Sorry to interrupt, rapporteur. Colleagues, I believe that the rapporteur is making an effort to respond to the objections that have been raised on a very sensitive subject, so I would ask you to lower your voice or, even better, to keep quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u147	Now, the paradox is, among other things, the circumstance that many illustrious senators complain that the fact is hyperpregnant. We have objections complaining that the expression "material facts" has been used; they complain about the "concretely suitable" being used; they complain about the "consciously" being used, i.e. all those demonstrative components of a clear factual pregnance of the objective component as well as its subjective side. I want to say that the fact is a hyperdetermined fact and that the attribute of relevance is not an indeterminate quantitative element, but a further confirmation of the pregnance on the level of the offensiveness of the conduct since relevant means here actually endowed with charge of offensiveness. Already twice I have given an explanation - we would miss something else, obviously everyone is free to say that these explanations do not convince; no one has the claim to convince others - but now I do it for the third time: "relevant" means a material fact endowed with a concrete offensive capacity of legally protected interest. This is done in the wake of a jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court that recognizes the principle of offensiveness in two dimensions between their competitors: in the abstract sense, because the norm must be populated with evidence of the abstract offensiveness of conduct; in the concrete sense, because this reference contained in the text of the norm imposes on the judge an interpretation that we classify as oriented to offense. Therefore, relevant means offensive to the legally protected interest, obviously in the wake of a well-established jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, as I have already said - and I would ask my fellow senators to reflect, then of course to disagree - the important attribute is not a quantitative element. Here no one has written significant variations, entities, quantities; here it has been written "material facts" and the principle of materiality, evoked with absolute clarity by the attribute "materials" is connected to the facts, and therefore to ontological dimensions and not to categories of the spirit. When we speak of facts we indicate an ontological reality, a circumstance that is endowed with its materiality, precisely; we evoke a principle, that of materiality, which historically is connected in criminal law to offensiveness. Therefore, we say, three times, that there must be a fact, therefore an entity with ontological consistency; that this fact must be material, and that moreover it must be an offensive fact. Then it cannot be said that this is an indeterminate course. Here we are not talking about anything that concerns the event because they are crimes of pure conduct, among other things built on danger; the event is a possible circumstance, but not necessary in order to survive the elements of the legal type. It has been said against the specific malice, saying that it is difficult to prove it. These are statements that must be debunked once and for all. There is certainly no need for the legislator to take on the probative problems: the probative problem is a problem that gives seriousness and consistency, Senator Mussini, to the criminal and incriminating norm, because it confers on it that requirement of concreteness which requires the bodies holding the prosecution to demonstrate the peculiarities and specificities of the criminal law. To say that they are difficult to prove means to ignore that theft is built on the specific dole, otherwise we could never condemn anyone for theft because it is written in order to profit. These are things of such evidence that the rapporteur thought he should not talk about them. With regard to the expression "in order to achieve an unjust profit" for itself or for others, the question arises as to who the "other" are. The others are people different from the author of the fact, but this is part of the legal grammar, it is not necessary even to intervene before the Senate to explain that "others" means people other than the author of the fact, so much so that the law says, proposing an opposition between the two terms, either for itself or for a person different from himself: this means "others." I don't think we need to specify whether it's Young Rossi or Mario Bianchi. This, moreover, is an expression that has been in the code since 1930 and we cannot be surprised at the expressions tested by 85 years of application of criminal law, because it is obviously a real paradox. Coming to the unjust profit, even here frankly I could not say that this expression has always been in the penal code, clearly for those crimes against which the legislator, within the framework of a discretion that cannot be denied to him (if there is someone who thinks that the criminal rules are written with the computer I dare say that it is not so) does not follow preontical categories that require him to orient himself on one side or on the other as some claim that the legislator should be orientated. The legislator makes choices, moreover the specific dole means to aim for an end, the realization of which is not required for the purpose of the existence of the crime, therefore it is sufficient to show that some have acted to an end, but then that end is not necessary that it has been realized for the offence to be punishable. So much so that we say that the specific penalty is a setback of the moment of criminality, that is, it ends up leading to an extension of the scope of the criminal law. To say that in a loss of budget there is no profit is something that I frankly cannot understand, because it is clear that the concealment of a loss leads to an advantage for the person who makes use of this mystification, of this hiding: if a loss is not brought into the budget, this is an advantage. It is clear that the concepts are not antithetical, but rather perfectly consonant with each other. Then we complain about these different levels. The norms - may I say - must be interpreted and understood and as regards interpretation, I take advantage to anticipate a concept: no one can think that today in the Senate we end up guessing what will be the legal path that will be assigned to article 2621, article 2622, article 2621- bis or article 2621-b. We believe that we have written, and that we have thought before, reasonable rules which conform to our principles. Of course, we must, as in any case, foreshadow that there will be courts, court of appeal, a Court of Cassation, which will then answer our doubts. It is enough for us to have written rules that fit into a constitutional framework. Well, we've made a basic fact, an offensive material fact. Compared to this fact, as a scalar and subordinate, as a subsequent value in a hierarchical order that sees the first place inserted the category of material facts relevant, we have the facts of slight magnitude. Illustrious senators, the small facts have always been in the criminal system. We even have the opportunity to say that the indeterminate element, when it is part of a favourable rule, does not pose any problem of constitutional legitimacy, as it is proven in our criminal system. The small facts lie in Article 73 - just to name one - of the single text on drugs (Decree of the President of the Republic No 309 of 1990). Under these slight facts there are the facts of slight offensiveness, with a gradualism that - let me say it with a single word - is understood: there is the fact of a small entity, which is an offensive fact, and then an offensive fact tenuously so; there is a scalar order that also lies in our criminal system. Senator Caliendo has repeatedly posed this problem: in short, are the assessments or are not in the material facts relevant? I do not give my interpretation here, not because I do not have an answer (because I have an answer), but I do not think that the rapporteur should give his interpretation. This is an interpretative problem and there is no scandal here, because we know very well that judges interpret the rules. The rapporteur is convinced of what he says... [[Comments of Senator Caliendo]] But there's no doubt that the theory of interpretation fits...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u148	Senator Caliendo, let the speaker speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u149	Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. Our Court of Cassation will have to assess whether the evaluation elements and estimates may or may not fall within a concept involving material facts. I repeat, the rapporteur does not give any answer in this regard, because he does not have to give it; there would be no need for him to give it. We are not the Court of Cassation which gives legal answers; this is an issue that the case law will address. I repeat, the rapporteur has his answer, but it would have no effect and no binding meaning, so the rapporteur does not think that he cannot give it, but that he should not have to give any answer on this point. "Awarely": I also said: the adverb is consciously having a double function: the function of... [[Brusio]] Madam President, the rapporteur also speaks for hours, but it is a paradox that some people complain and ask questions and then...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u150	Senator D'Ascola, I see the House with an attentive attention...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u151	Senator Romani, I would ask you to help the Assembly proceed in its work. We listened to your very timely reply, Senator D'Ascola. Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. I'm silent, because speaking in this context doesn't make sense. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you think so, you should develop your arguments because I believe they concern a very sensitive part of the measure. Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. When the House is less tired, I will take up the explanations arising from the objections made, but it seems to me that proceeding in this context is completely useless.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u152	It is not necessary, because on a very sensitive subject the preparatory work is always relevant and what you say is recorded. Unfortunately, senators have been called back many times. Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. If I may, Madam President, I will give the same explanation in the amendments for the fourth time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since it seems to me that we have been working very quickly today and that the approach to the issue dealt with in Articles 8 and 9 has been initiated, and I understand that there is a substantial agreement of the Groups to resume the debate on the measure tomorrow morning, I believe that, on the basis of its wide-ranging reply, perhaps the opinions should be expressed tomorrow. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u155	[[Brusio.]] I call on those who wish to move away from this House to do so quietly. Mr Manassero (PD). Thank you, President. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u156	Excuse me, Senator, wait a moment: I say this for you, because otherwise it becomes difficult to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u157	Colleagues, I call on those who have to leave the House to hurry so that they can make their speech. Please, Senator. Mr Manassero (PD). Senators, Senators, Burgo Group is one of the leading European manufacturers of graphic and special papers and is today a true system that develops around the world of paper: production, distribution, recycling and processing of forest products, study, design, construction and engineering of paper plants, but also factoring and energy. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u158	Excuse me again, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u159	Senator Gasparri, Senator Viceconte, please allow my colleague to speak. Mr Manassero (PD). The Burgo company has 12 active plants of which 11 in Italy, one in Belgium and the plant in Mantua currently in sale, with about 4,800 employees, to certify an important production reality qualitatively and quantitatively. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u160	Senator Gasparri, as Vice President, I ask you to help me avoid the buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u161	Mr Manassero (PD). In 1905 the Verzuolo paper mill was opened, in the Province of Cuneo, which marked the birth of the group: a paper mill with two production lines from which print, roto-offset and rotogravure come out. In addition to production, there is also an automated finished products warehouse among the largest existing: 6,000 square meters with a capacity of 32,000 tons of paper. Now in the plant in Verzuolo the company intends to unilaterally open the procedure for collective dismissal of 46 workers and communicated it yesterday to the trade union representatives at the Confindustria headquarters in Cuneo, as a consequence of the announced change of working time on one of the two production lines judged most in distress by the property. In the historic paper mill since 2008 a reorganization has been started that, in agreement with the unions, has led to the reduction of about 100 jobs to reach the current productive force of 400 employees. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u162	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, please lower your voice and have some respect for your colleague.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u163	Please, Senator. Mr Manassero (PD). Without agreements between ownership and unions the risk is to start a series of tensions that will bring poor results, with the stiffening of the parties in the field to the detriment of an agreement that, as has happened in the recent past, can be occasion of garrison and relaunch of the plant, allowing also the company to optimize the costs. I put a question to the Ministries of Labour and Economic Development today to urge them to do so. This situation could lead to tensions and uncertainties in the territory of Saluzzo, in the area of the Province of Cuneo, where the plant of Verzuolo is located. We keep in mind that the Burgo only six months ago closed the factory in Cuneo della Comecart, a company of the group specialized in the production of machinery and components for the paper industry and reference workshop for the Burgo paper mills, putting in motion for cessation of activity 39 employees. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u166	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President, the escort to Pino Mascari has been revoked again. Cyclically, the Ministry of the Interior revokes the protection measures to this citizen who denounced the mafia; in this case he did not revoke them only in case Mascari is in Calabria. In 1992 Pino Mascari rebelled against the 'ndrangheta, suffering serious repercussions in the workplace and family, beginning to be the subject of thefts, fires, damages and threats. Some criminals approached one of his brothers and shot him in the legs. Pino, who had suffered many economic losses in the meantime, was forced by the criminals not to form a civil part. Mascari, who has helped to bring many criminals to justice, has no longer lived in Calabria for years, but this is not enough motivation. The 'ndrangheta is everywhere and the last events once again show us this. Today, the state abandons those who expose themselves in order to denounce the evil, the retaliations, the mob system that increasingly oppresses the free citizens of our country. How can Italians trust a state that asks its citizens to denounce the evil and then, when the citizen is threatened, abandons it? I hope this is just a misunderstanding, otherwise you would really think of something dramatic and dangerous for what we continue to call Italy. We can only join in the appeals and petitions that many citizens, and various local and regional councils call for loudly: return the escort to Pino! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u169	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, I am addressing you, but my speech is addressed to the whole House. From the press news of these days we learn that the president of the Anticorruption Authority Raffaele Cantone has asked the Sogesid to evaluate the adoption of a measure in autotutela in order to withdraw the award to the temporary association of TreErre/Italrecuperi enterprises of the planning and the execution of the works of the put in safety of the Resit landfill of Giugliano in the province of Naples. TreErre SpA was, in fact, judged unsuitable to carry out the works for the invasion that belonged to Cipriano Chianese, the king of the eco-aphies. TreErre is one of the companies involved in Bagnoli's false reclamations and some of its members are found in the capital mob investigation. How did it happen again that contracts were awarded without checks? It was 5 February 2014 when in this House, when we approved the measure on the so-called land of fires, for the umpteenth time we were not heard; indeed we were ridiculed. I had personally asked for the deletion of the amendment introduced to the House which allowed derogations to be made to the anti-mafia rules for the procurement of reclamations in the land of fires: it would have been insane and would have resulted in legal support for organized crime. We were told that we could not read and that to derogate meant to improve the standard. Yeah, I know, that sounds ridiculous, but that was the majority response. Madam President, it happened. Already in January, before the approval of the measure on the land of the fires, there had been the first cases of companies related to the clan of the Casalesi who had tried to put their hands on the first call for tenders of the Bonifiche, in particular always on the Resit landfill. Yet, despite the facts known and denounced by us in this House, the amendment has become a law and today, as usual, the citizens are paying the price. Since you are playing with people's lives and since the 5 Star Movement had and is right to sell, we would like at least the apology, which would not be directed to us, but to the citizens who are dying in the land of fires every day. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u172	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, the security situation continues to alarm more and more, but unfortunately other incidents tell us how much the government is underestimating the circumstances. Just last week in Varese in the center of the city, in via delle Medaglie d'Oro, a paradoxical and dramatic event happened. At a checkpoint 30 non-EU illegal foreigners surrounded police officers, who had the worst. The fact has been reported from the local news and has alarmed the citizens a lot, but even more the agents of the Forces of the Order. We're not protected. We have no means. Anyone who feels entitled to accuse or attack us. But we are neither beaters nor violent. We're normal people who have a family and pay a mortgage. We're full of it. That's enough. The attack the other night was the so-called drop that overflowed the vase. Madam President, I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior to come and visit one of the many cities and, in this case, also Varese: a city accustomed to the tranquillity of the province, which, however, is suffocated by the aggression of people who have nothing to do with our context of civil life and who, united together in packs, are strengthening and attacking, also the Forces of the Order, and endanger the security of the citizens. The Minister of the Interior comes to Piazza della Repubblica in Varese. Come to Malnate, a neighboring town where a young man was attacked in the same way. Come without escort, take a tour of the square, compare yourself with this reality and realize that leaving the Forces of Order without the normative instruments and, even more, citizens without the guarantee that the State represses these situations means leaving the country behind. We're very angry about that. [[Applause from Senator Divine.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u173	I'm sure the Undersecretary Pizzetti will pass on to the Minister of the Interior Senator Candiani's invitation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u174	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-420.ana.u175	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 1 April, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.14 p.m.
