ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u4	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u10	BROGLIA (PD). Madam President, I am speaking because today is a special day for us. It is the third anniversary of the earthquake in Emilia. Madam President, Senator and Senator, on 20 May 2012, exactly three years ago, at 4 a.m., a deaf and disturbing roar caused the people of most of Emilia, Veneto and Lombardy to rise up. It took a few seconds to realize that it was an earthquake and several minutes to realize that the epicenter was in the heart of the Lower Padana. An earthquake of magnitude 5.9 of the Richter scale. An earthquake that really caught us all off guard. We who were prepared and alerted on landslides, floods, exceptional weather events found ourselves, from point to point to point, dealing with a very violent earthquake. Still, however, we had not seen everything, because after nine days, on May 29th at 9:03 am, a second earthquake of equal magnitude, but with an acceleration to the ground twice as much as the first, caused collapses and serious damage to churches, municipalities, schools, hospitals, sheds and homes. 27 were the victims of the two earthquakes: seven on the night of 20, 20 in the morning of 29. Workers and entrepreneurs who were in the factory shift buried by the collapse of the shed. Volunteers who were trying to save more lives. A parish priest who cared for his church. There are important stories behind these victims. But starting from those victims and the stubbornness of the national, regional and local institutions, the long journey of assistance to the people, the safety of the buildings and the reconstruction began. We left without a law on reconstruction, without a euro, but with so much courage and stubbornness. Who, like me, has lived and lives as mayor in the first person that drama and the stages of reconstruction know that two people out of all were decisive in assuming in the immediate great responsibility to start, in the absence of any norm, all the apparatus of Civil Protection, the fire department, the volunteers and that these two people were decisive in the relationship with the Government, and in particular with Minister Barca. And we who were there will never finish thanking Prefect Franco Gabrielli and President Vasco Errani. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Perhaps even today we do not have the measure of that earthquake: 58 were the municipalities concerned; 45,000 people directly involved; 19,000 families who left their homes (16,000 of them asked for assistance); 14,000 residential buildings collapsed or damaged; 13,000 productive buildings collapsed or damaged; 1,500 public buildings, including churches or hospitals, collapsed or damaged. This is an area from which about 2% of national GDP derives. Finally, 18,000 students without a school. And it is precisely from the schools that we have left and implemented, in three months, provisional schools for 18,000 pupils. And everyone was able to carry out the entire school year and the subsequent ones in a regular way. Today many of those schools have been repaired or rebuilt, and with next September it can be said that all the children will abandon the prefabricated ones. At the opening of the camps there were about 40,000 guests. After only five months almost all had been found an alternative accommodation between four walls or granted a monthly contribution for an independent accommodation and even the last camp was closed. Despite the efforts made for 757 families it was necessary to resort to temporary prefabricated dwellings. Today of those 757 nuclei remain 410 with the commitment by the Emilia-Romagna Region to dismantle them by the end of 2015. From that 29th of May began the construction of the law on reconstruction, the decrees law, the finance, the amending work of Parliament, the search for funding, the setting up of the technical committee constituted by the commissioner who saw in the mayors submissive the backbone and the real motor that held together the local communities reset the distance between the institutions: I speak of all the mayors of any political formation. Today, after three years, the data of the reconstruction are as follows: 60 percent of the buildings have already been rebuilt, 15,800 houses restored where 25,000 people have returned to live. We have already granted almost EUR 2 billion, of which almost half have already been cleared. I remind everyone that the contribution is not given to private individuals, but paid directly to the performer at the end of the work, everything on invoice and everything perfectly traceable and transparent. Of those 16,000 families who asked for assistance, 4,600 remain today, i.e. they have fallen by 71 percent. I think they're very respectful. Yet there is still so much to do, because now comes the most complicated phase, the one where we would not want the problem of the earthquake Emilia to be exhausted. What we still need to be careful about is a series of measures that still accompany those territories for some time. In the meantime, I am referring to the extension until 2017 of the state of emergency, because this contains in itself some tax extensions that serve those who are still starting not to succumb now that the most is done. To this end we have also strongly advanced the demand not so much for no tax area but for urban free zones limited to the historic centers most affected, financed for 50 million euros always in support of the crafts, commerce and small and medium-sized enterprises of the territory. While the fund for the reconstruction of private buildings of about six billion is large, about 800 million are still missing on the reconstruction of public works. A great deal of attention must also be paid to the local authorities involved which, in addition to national cuts, have to deal with missing receipts, exponential multiplications of urban practices and public works. Without important support, these municipalities will not be able to do so, especially on the subject of subjecting themselves to the Stability Pact for insurance and donations. I do not want to forget a topic of primary importance in the reconstruction that is that of legality and from the maximum attention to the attempts of mafia infiltration. As mayor of a municipality of those territories I claim together with other colleagues, President Errani and current President Bonaccini, who we all decided to constitute the so-called white list for all the companies that wanted to be part of the reconstruction. And when you ask everyone to undergo a complete examination, you may occasionally find some sign of doubtful origin. But we also claim here the firmness that we have also held towards established and highly prestigious local businesses that, like all the others, have been excluded until their non-existent facts have been fully clarified. Keep in mind that we are talking after the proper controls of a phenomenon that affects 0.6% of all the contracts of reconstruction. The Aemilia investigation then opened a dramatic and disturbing rift about the presence for many years of the 'ndrangheta on our territories, but it also highlighted how the local administrations are still an embankment that has held and is holding in exemplary way. But even here, we can't be left alone to fight. As I said before, we cannot think that the mayors, together with the Councils, the municipal councillors, the civil servants (who really must be greatly applauded for what they have been doing for three years), are at the sedan, after three years so hard, for facts that do not involve them or for the fact that an employee may have made an improper phone call; nor can we let judicial or control bodies reprocess those months with glasses of normality and not of emergency. I am aware that this is a delicate step, yet it is an essential step: institutions that are parties to each other and not counterparts, even in the absolute sovereignty and independence of functions. Hence my deep solidarity with all the mayors. I never like to talk about personal matters, but if I am in this House, this is mainly due to the desire to bring to the Senate a mayor of those territories, to follow closely the legislative process of the legislation on reconstruction. That is the only reason why I have accepted and agreed to have a double position, and I slip away criticism, often instrumental, and I continue to do my job, together with my colleagues, Guerra and Vaccari, here in the Senate, and colleagues from the House of Deputies from those territories. Today, the spotlight on the earthquake is off and only lights up if you can glimpse some negative fact. That is why I conclude my speech with the abuse phrase that says that a tree that falls from a growing forest makes more noise. That is why I would like to reiterate in this House that in Emilia there is a forest that continues to grow in the midst of so many difficulties, that it needs important support, still for some time, that it is not afraid that every tree is being controlled - and indeed it demands it - because it knows how to bring down the dry trees, without needing to break down the entire forest, paying great attention so that even the last tree can be planted and hung up. I would therefore like to thank the President for allowing me, in an unusual way, to speak at the beginning of the sitting and not at the end of the sitting, and I take this opportunity to join Senator Bulgarelli in his request to observe a minute's silence in memory of those 27 victims. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u13	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, I speak as an Emilia-Romagna citizen, as spokesperson for my colleague, Mr Bulgarelli, who is also an Emilia-Romagna citizen, and on behalf of the entire Group of the Five Star Movement. We too want to join in the memory of the victims of that tragic May 20, to which - I want to remember - another very strong shock followed, after only nine days, when we were still in shock for what had happened to us and we were at the mercy of numerous shocks, which composed the long seismic swarm, which in those days shook all the territories of that area and also Bologna. I would like to remind you that, after these tragic events, our land has unfortunately been affected by other tragic phenomena: a flood, an air trumpet, a hailstorm and an unusual snowfall. Despite this, the citizens of Emilia-Romagna rolled up their sleeves and rose. [[Signs of emotion from Senator Montevecchi. Applause]] So today, as well as remembering the victims, I would like to say thanks to my fellow countrymen and to my fellow citizens, that with a great spirit of sacrifice and with that initiative that has always distinguished them, they have not fallen down in the face of this series of calamities that have struck our land and have gone on. Clearly, we also hope that the measures that have accompanied the populations in these years will be extended, in order to continue to help them, in the work of reconstruction, not only material and territorial, but also of their own life, of their own feeling, of their own feeling, because an earthquake shakes the territory, but even more shakes the spirituality of the people and their emotional and psychological stability. We hope that, in doing so, the institutions will put in favour of these populations of the concrete resources and above all that they will assume the responsibility to monitor the path of these resources, particularly at a time like this, when we know and read continuously that - alas - often the resources destined by the State do not reach the destination for which they had been thought. I therefore hope that we will ensure that these populations do not pay twice for the consequences of those tragedies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u16	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, speaking on behalf of my colleague, Mr Bernini, on behalf of Forza Italia, I extend all my personal and Group closeness to the people of Emilia-Romagna, who were affected by that disaster. I would like to highlight a few points very briefly. First of all, I would like to express my human closeness to the families of those who have disappeared without any fault, but because of tragic events at the level of the climate and probably also of a certain carelessness in the protection of the territory, of which we must remember so that there is a lesson for the future. I would also like to stress how those who were in the affected areas, who represent a very large part of our country's economy, reacted in the best possible way: they have been busy. Many entrepreneurs, before putting their home back in place, have put their company back in place and in this way have allowed the business to recover in the best way. Finally, I would like to stress what my colleagues have already said, namely that the money that the State has given, where they have arrived, has been well used, but I believe that we all have a commitment to be careful that they continue to arrive and be used in the best possible way. We should learn ourselves as senators, before remembering disasters, to do everything in our power to try to repair the damage that nature has caused. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u17	In addition to the requests for support, the Presidency also supports the expressions of condolence and calls on the House to observe a minute's silence in memory of the victims. [[The President stands up and with you the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u18	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1261 and 1620. I remember that the general debate ended in the afternoon sitting. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u19	Madam President, I will speak very briefly. The procedure for this certainly necessary measure is finally concluded, as everyone has mentioned in the debate, and as a whole it is not contested. Nevertheless, it has been a particularly difficult and unexpectedly difficult process, and this shows that parliamentary initiatives sometimes encounter absolutely unpredictable obstacles. Anyway, that's good. We're here. With this law, society will certainly make an important step forward. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Senator Ferrara, but also Senator Mazzoni and other colleagues, as well as the Special Committee on Human Rights and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, whose work has been indispensable to bring this measure to the House at last. It was also difficult to keep the bar straight with respect to the initial approach of this bill and its objectives, because the approach that was chosen and wanted to maintain was to avoid the oscillation between risks, on the one hand, to make it a manifest law (and, therefore, not useful in practice) and, on the other hand, to introduce a punitive approach, which was not what was intended to be done. The problem is what the legislator has to do about these things, in these matters. The legislator cannot and must not solve the problem of cyberbullying: it is not something we can do, but we must create the conditions to fight it. These are cultural conditions and that is why the bill intervenes in the educational field. We do not expect sanctions; we do not enter the criminal field; we refer only to cyberbullying and not to the phenomenon of bullying tout court; we only address minors; we protect minors from conduct detrimental to their dignity put in place by other minors. Sometimes the legislator, in order to be effective, must also know how to be modest in the text in order to be ambitious in the objectives. Just read the newspapers - everyone has remembered it - to see how, unfortunately, these episodes are so frequent. For this reason, it is important to educate the authors, the victims and even the parents, who very often are the first to be surprised by the unholy conduct of their children and do not know it. On this we need to start a virtuous process. For this reason, it is not even necessary to think that behaviors in cyberspace are different from those in reality and it is very important the recent jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation, which has essentially equated the conduct. I would like to thank all the speakers in the general debate for their very useful contributions. Of course, nothing is perfect and this measure is certainly perfect, but the idea is that it is a process that goes on. Some have pointed out that there are very few resources available. It is something: there are two million euros that, however, are mobilized in this direction. Some have argued that it is necessary to aggravate the position of those who discriminate on the basis of certain factors compared to others, whether sexual orientation, disability or otherwise. This, however, is a law of a procedural nature: it is a law that does not sanction, because otherwise, if some discriminatory factors were to be highlighted detrimental to dignity compared to others, it would end up saying that those who harm dignity in relation to specific criteria and not to others are even more bad. However, nothing would have been achieved from the point of view of regulatory scope. There would be a lot more to add, but I'll stop here. I would like to remind you that this measure, like many others, must be seen as the beginning of a journey and also as something which will be the subject of evaluation, deepening and, if possible, new changes by Parliament. We will have to assess the impact of this law and be prepared to revise the text, but let us begin. Therefore, as some Members have already done, I hope that not only the widest possible approval in this House of this bill, but also the swift conclusion of the procedure in the House, will finally be possible to find this law published in the Official Journal. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u20	We greet the students and students of the Autonomous Institute including San Cipriano d'Aversa, San Cipriano d'Aversa, in the province of Caserta. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u21	Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking my colleague, Senator Ferrara, for having been so incisive and for having led Parliament to discuss this measure, which is really important. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Palermo, who has done an excellent job with the Commissions, all of them. But above all, I would like to thank my fellow Members, who have all been passionate about this morning's debate in this House. I think, in fact, that what is most needed to do things well is passion, especially when they affect the lives of our children, our children. A lot of right things have been said. Senator Lo Giudice refers to a legislature that is still unleashed in this regard. It is true: this is the beginning of a path and we must make sure that it can be fast and develop in the future, because we need this. Senator Bignami, agreeing on the need for a technical table, also recommends that it be competent to follow the phenomenon and that it has a light structure. You're right, Senator, we need to approve standards that are up to date. Senator Bulgarelli, while acknowledging in the provision a first step, warns that the virtual world is now almost parallel to the real world. All contributions were important. Senator Mussini said that we need to bring peace back to school and that good school is already there. True, there is good school in many cases, but in other cases we have to take it and make sure that good school is everywhere. Senator Padua is right when she says that together we must also be incisive on families: school is a central place, but we need families to bring back education, respect and common sense that is needed to move forward. Senator Mazzoni has done a job presenting data and results; the data show that already today 30% of our boys have this problem. The network runs fast and, as with all the fast-paced problems, we must try to be even faster and, as someone has said this morning in this House, we too must make good use of the network and set a good example. I thank everyone and hope that there will be as much sharing as possible on this bill. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Bignami, Blund and Bell.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u22	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u23	Madam President, I withdraw all my amendments, except Amendment 4205.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u24	I take note of that. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u25	Madam President, I am against Amendment 1,202 and I am in favour of Amendment 1,203.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u26	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u27	Amendments 1,200 and 1,201 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,202. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,202 tabled by Senator Angioni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,203 tabled by Senator Angioni. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u28	Madam President, the opinion is against Amendments 2,200 and 2,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u29	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u30	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2,200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2,200, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators, up to the words "with the following words." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 2,200 and Amendment 2,201 are therefore excluded. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.0.1, 2.0.2 and 2.0.3 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u31	Madam President, Amendment 3,202 provides for the inclusion of parents' associations as part of the technical table for preventing and combating cyber-building, as well as network operators, as an important representation of those who have to monitor this situation. I therefore call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give a favourable opinion on this amendment because, if you really want to help the children with regard to the possible problems related to youth discomfort and what then involves approaching the various forms of bullying and bullying on the net, I believe that the presence of parents' associations, as well as the operators of the network, can help.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u32	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u33	Madam President, I naturally support Amendment 3,200. The opinion is also in favour of amendment 3,301, where reworded, i.e. keeping the reference to anti-homophobia associations and eliminating the reference to non-governmental organisations already involved in the Safer Internet center (SIC) national programme, which is actually already there, so it is redundant. The opinion is also opposed to Amendments 3,202 and 3,203, while it is in favour of Amendments 3,500 (text 2) and 3,501.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u34	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u35	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,200, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would ask the rapporteur to give a clear indication of the rewording required for amendment 3,301, which reads: "In paragraph 1, replace the words: "and of the organisations already involved..." The rewording you propose, Senator Palermo, what is it?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u36	To replace those words with antihomophobia associations and non-governmental organizations already involved in the Safer internet center's national programme. Only the part relating to antihomophobia associations is added. Then there was a question of drafting with regard to the abbreviation SIC (Safer internet center) which is not useful, so I would propose to remove it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bocchino accepts reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u37	Madam President, I would tend to accept the rewording, but if, as I understand it, what we want to do is simply remove the words 'non-governmental', because I believe that the Commission has expressed itself on this point, I think we need to reformulate the amendment in a better way, otherwise we do not achieve the aim. If we want to add only antihomophobia associations and leave the text as it came out of the Commission, I agree, but I believe that the amendment needs to be reworded better than the rapporteur's proposal, so I would ask for verification.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u38	That is exactly what we wanted to suggest to the rapporteur, so if there are no objections, I propose the provision of the amending proposal, so that it is also clear to the House what comes out as a whole. Amendment 3,301 (text 2) is therefore set aside, as is amendment 3,202. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,500 (text 2), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,203 tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.501, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Article 3 is set aside. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u39	I object to Amendments 4.2 (on which there is also the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution), 4.201, 4.202, 4.203, 4.204. I am in favour of amendment 4,500. On Amendment 4,205 there was also an opinion against the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, so the invitation would be to turn it into an agenda, with a wording that I can immediately submit to you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mazzoni, do you agree? Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Madam President, I welcome the call to turn this amendment into an agenda in the text proposed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u42	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would add my signature to Amendment 4.2 and withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u43	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the G4.05 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u44	I am in favour of adopting the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u45	The Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u46	Amendments 4.2 and 4.200 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.201. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.201 tabled by Senator Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.202, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.203, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.204, tabled by Senator Blundo. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u48	Excuse me, Senator, I didn't realize you wanted to make an explanation of vote. I shall cancel the vote and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u49	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, I would ask Members to consider this amendment, which we may not have considered thoroughly. I am also sorry that Amendment 4.2 was withdrawn because it was partly similar. The figure of a pedagogist educator within the schools is very important because currently inside the schools there is the figure of the psychologist. The latter has a very different competence from the educator pedagogist, who can really help the children in difficulty to find serenity and a good relationship with the school and with the teachers, and can help the same teachers to have a proper way of interacting with the children who experience child discomfort. I think this is something to consider. In addition, colleagues, I would like to point out that on the website that has been set up by the Government for the collection of all proposals for good school, the presence of a pedagogist educator is the most voted; it is in the first place. This is because the social world, families and teachers themselves realize that this figure is very important. We, who are facing such a serious problem as cyberbullying, uncontrolled and difficult to stem, must therefore consider and positively evaluate the inclusion of this figure. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Vacciano and Campanella senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u50	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.204, tabled by Senator Blundo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4,500, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G4.05 will not be put to the vote. We now come to the agenda for G4200, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u51	Madam President, this agenda has been redrafted. If it were accepted, the opinion would be in favour. The text of the reformulation is in distribution; the representative of the Government can read about it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u52	Madam President, the text of the G4200 agenda remains unchanged until the words 'dignity' of the person. It is then asked to expunge the words from "considered" that it is up to "in scholastic context." After the words "engaged" the Government: "the words "to" shall then be inserted to evaluate the opportunity of "to." The phrase "normative" is therefore deleted and the text resumes from "so that at the school level" and remains unchanged until it is the subject of reflection. In-depth study is added and study material is expunged. The rest of the time is fine. The text shall then remain unchanged from "to take appropriate measures" until "modes" such "modes." It is expunged to discourage and hinder and it is added to make more aware and conscious, under the fourteen years of age, the registration to the "social networks." The remaining part is deleted and replaced with "e" in the field of autonomy, organizing training courses with the collaboration of educators pedagogists. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Blundo, do you accept the rewording proposed by the government?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u53	Yes, Madam President, and I would like to thank the Secretary-General who, in this situation, has shown more support than colleagues in the Senate to understand the importance of this figure. [[Applause from Senator Endrizzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u54	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G4200 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 4 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.0,200 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,301, which was previously rejected, which has been reworded by the rapporteur and the Government. The presenter, Senator Bocchino, has previously made it known that he accepts this reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u57	BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). Madam President, this reformulation actually highlights the spirit of the amendment, which is to include antihomophobia associations at the technical table for the prevention and contrast of cyberbullying, precisely to recognize the activity that these associations have always carried out, for many years, even in times when they were considered pioneers in this regard, precisely in the fight and prevention of cyberbullying, giving them the right recognition in the definition of the integrated action plan.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u60	THE COURT (PD). Madam President, I would ask Senator Bocchino to be able to accept the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bocchino, do you accept this request? BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u63	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, we have put aside Amendment 3,301 because the problem is very delicate. You know how much discussion there is about the relationship between school and families and the educational project of the school. I read a very shared provision, which defines what is the phenomenon that we must oppose: what affects the aesthetic aspect, the shyness, the supposed sexual orientation, the foreign being, the unconventional clothing, the feminine beauty that stands out in the group, the disability and then, even if in a lesser way, the political and religious orientation; all events that fall into these episodes of bullying. I have nothing against an antihomophobia association entering this committee, although I understand that there are so many associations that deal with these issues. I always refer to official data: there are 83 reports a year in Italy made by all the assignments to the Ministry of the Interior for acts of homophobia; there are about 25,000 concerning women, from 150 murders, to the phenomena of stalking and those of maltreatment. So, it's fine for me to enter an association, but not the associations, otherwise we will find ourselves, as already happens in the Ministry of the Interior, 30 or 40 gay associations or all the associations that will enter the body, that will no longer be the organism against cyberbullying, but a body oriented exclusively in that direction. I therefore ask the Government to reformulate the amendment in the sense that it enters, in a particular way if you want compared to others, for a specific topic, an antihomophobia association, which sits with one of its representatives, but not antihomophobia associations. Otherwise we turn this organism into something different from what the law as a whole believes should be. It is in fact a 360 degree phenomenon and not a specific phenomenon oriented only in that direction. [[Applause from Senator Rossi Luciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u64	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,301 (text 2), tabled by Senators Bocchino and Lo Giudice. (The vote was followed). (The rapporteur spoke with the representative of the government. [[Comments of Senator Giovanardi]] I shall cancel the vote. I ask the Government and the rapporteur to be precise.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u67	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). I would have liked to add a relative change to contemplate the situation in which cyberbully acts on the disabled, but they had given me a beautiful speech that it was right to leave this proposal in general terms. Now I find this change and then I say to myself: why don't we make a larger change and include a reference to an association of disabled people? Very often the solitude of disability locks up in the stalls and these guys are also the object of cyberbullying. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u68	I repeat the question to the rapporteur and the representative of the Government. We have in hand the rewording accepted by the proposer: can I proceed to the vote or suspend the sitting? All right, I'll suspend the session briefly. (The sitting was suspended at 5.30 p.m. and resumed at 5.44 p.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u71	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, it is not the first time in recent weeks - and I say this also to the Group leaders and to Senator Zanda - that we have followed an extreme way of making laws and amendments, including on criminal and parapenal matters, compared to the customaries. This method of cabins arriving in this House is truly unacceptable. There has been all the time here, because the lack of the technical report and the need for the opinion of the Budget Commission has been postponed for several hours. I find this method unacceptable and dequalifying for Parliament. You don't make laws in this shameful way! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Personally, I don't want to vote for stuff that I don't understand how this methodology is going to work out, and I see that this negotiation is still going on. We come to this House a little more decently. There are amendments: you can approve or reject, you can put aside issues to find agreements, but frankly this system is unacceptable and I do not think it should be endorsed by the Presidency either. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u72	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u73	Madam President, I would like to say to Senator Gasparri that the amendments were voted on in the Commission and there were also representatives of your Group. A matter that you asked us to review today has been reviewed. There is all the interest on the part of the government and the other groups to approve a rule that is good and in the interests of the children, because, then, we go to safeguard our children, nothing more. [[Comments of Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u74	I call on the rapporteur to explain the proposal for the rewording of amendment 3,301 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u75	Madam President, just to do what the Undersecretary has just said and to avoid identifying a category of associations with a privileged status compared to other associations within this table, the reformulation is as follows: paragraph 1 of the amendment remains unchanged and finally, the words "and a representation of associations active in the fight against bullying" are added. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bocchino, do you accept the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u76	Madam President, with this rewording, of course, we are responding to all the sensitivities expressed by our colleagues regarding the extension of the types of associations involved in this technical table. We have seen that associations that deal with issues relating to people with disabilities have also been mentioned. I think, therefore, that this reformulation can actually find the broadest consensus, responding to everyone's comments. I therefore accept the rewording and declare the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u77	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,301 (text 3), tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,202, tabled by Senator Blundo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled by the rapporteur, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u78	I am in favour of all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u79	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,500. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5,500, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.501 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 5 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u80	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u81	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u82	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,200. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Buemi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 6,200. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u85	[[Brusio.]] I would like to ask all those Members who wish to leave the Chamber not to disturb those who speak. STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after the broad debate on this measure, I do not think it is necessary to extend much on this sensitive and, to some extent, even so worrying issue. It is essential that Parliament should be interested in something which, apart from its name, is also quite abstruse, which is extremely disturbing. Adolescent development is a truly critical phase in the formation of the human being. Uncertainty is the term that best defines this period of life: the way adolescents act is uncertain, the parental roles, the reference values and the temporal boundaries of adolescence are uncertain. The psychological key to behavior is also uncertain. But if adolescence is always a difficult time for everyone, there are some subjects for which adolescence ends up becoming a truly distressing period. And this is where the very serious phenomenon of which we are debating is sometimes embodied, especially if we think that an extremely pervasive instrument of our personal life is used, such as the network. Data show that 19 percent of Italian kids connect to the Internet for more than five hours a day and it is precisely the social network system - which we politicians, as well as many professionals, use for professional purposes - to be unfortunately used with intents that end up generating at the end of real personal dramas. According to data provided by associations that follow the teenage problems, 59 percent of acts of cyberbulism consists in the dissemination of denigratory photos, while 58 percent of the cases are the dissemination of false and threatening information via text messages, msm, e-mails and so on. In 61 percent of cases, however, acts of cyberbullying take place through social networks, often through the new phenomenon of the creation of "against groups," a sort of tribe created almost against one person. However, we are talking about bullying, a very dangerous social and adolescent phenomenon. The spread of vexing attitudes and forms of oppression towards people who are considered weaker does not only concern young people, but also adults. However, when certain behaviors affect the boy during the evolutionary age, when he becomes a man, at such an uncertain moment in his life, he comes to create phenomena of absolute isolation and absolute loneliness. Among other things, it must be borne in mind that the nature of the digital environments and of the network itself makes it possible to pervade the life of the victim even more, given the potential for immediate dissemination of the electronic medium, which can tend to reach an infinite number of recipients. The cyberbully is thought, moreover, even a little 'covered by the net, because it believes that it is in this way maybe even difficult to trace. With regard to the measure we are considering, we must also take into account the considerations that need to be made about the large network operators, who really have an almost infinite world at their disposal, in which, however, certain extremely dangerous behaviours can occur. It is regrettable that this whole debate has not raised a problem which concerns the very operators themselves. All of us, as a Group of the North League, are already voting in favour of this measure, hoping that we will not stop here. With reference to the phenomenon of cyberbullying and bullying - since we are talking so much about school decree and the assumption of precarious people - we need to think about how important the school environment is, in which the formation of the individual takes place and unfortunately often the phenomenon of bullying is born. We must, therefore, call for a serious consideration and responsibility of what it means to raise a healthy boy in school, when he uses these important and fundamental means of communication, but they must all be used well. We confirm, therefore, once again the vote in favour by the entire Group of the North League, with the invitation to the Government not to leave this measure isolated, taking initiatives to form against this phenomenon and to combat it. [[Applause from the LN-Aute Group of Senators Bignami and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u88	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Colleagues, this measure addresses a problem that affects many people and many young people closely. I am particularly pleased - and I would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur and my colleague, Mr Ferrara, who presented this draft law - firstly because it is perhaps too rare for Parliament to produce rules that are born within it, and this is a very important element. The point, then, is that that rule really affects people, that is, the concrete life of many young people. The theme of cyberbullying - or cyberbullying, to say the least - is a variant of bullying, but particular, because it makes use of the Internet, which gives it a pervasive capacity crazy. We, here in the Senate and in the 1st Commission in particular, are considering the right of access to the Internet, because we are considering how important it has become in the life of each of us: in practice, it constitutes an expansion of its real space, so much so that it is often considered as real as physical life. And this has an enormous impact on the souls of people in training. That is why it was important to approach this issue and give a first answer, which is obviously only one: the approach to the subject, in fact, must take place in the school and cannot take place without spending. We have set out a path and we have indicated the bodies that must follow the theme, but whose real care must take place in the school and especially in the public one, which is the place where citizens are built and where people learn to share values and approaches. Our society is a sick society, and the seriousness of its disease can be measured by the distance between the project of society present in the Constitution - I am thinking above all of the second paragraph of Article 3 - and the current level of inattention to the issue. We are about to approach the reform of the school, which will come to us in a few days. This is an extremely important reform and - in my opinion and many of the school workers, and indeed most of them - fundamentally negative. It is a reform that puts into the mechanisms of the school aspects that I could call social Darwinism. He exasperates the aspects of evaluation and, with these, of selection, in my opinion compressing another aspect that in the school should be, especially in the current cultural conditions, particularly cared for, namely the spread of the culture of solidarity. With the provisions of this provision, we give a first hint of attention to an issue which our young people have heard very much. However, we must all reflect together on what our society is becoming. This is a signal, and it is the signal of a systemic evil, which does not cure early and with a targeted cure: it takes a systemic cure, which is in the school and must be done in the school. The school has a crucial importance for our State, for our Republic, for what we want it to be, for what the Constitution wants it to be. Therefore, hopefully, the Mixed Group will vote in favour of this measure, hopefully, and pointing out that we will pay great attention to meeting the deadlines and commitments that the Government assumes with the draft law under consideration: the respect to relate to this Parliament on what is found in the body of society in order to be able to treat it more carefully, with the attention that is due to it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Bignami and Barozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u91	MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I understand that there is a great deal of sharing on this measure and there is also much appreciation for this initiative on our part. Thanks, therefore, to those who proposed it, to the rapporteurs, to those who have worked to fill a legislative vacuum at a time when this type of crime is taking more and more body and is producing more and more victims. I would like to avoid being repetitive, because it seems to me that almost everything has been said and can be absolutely shared by our Group, so I ask that I be able to deliver the full text of my speech by announcing the positive vote of the People's Area Group. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u92	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u95	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months the phenomenon of cyberbullying has spread at an exponential rate. The main cause is the extreme ease with which children access the Internet and make use of new technologies, to the point of creating a real dependence on the Network. According to a recent study by the MOIGE association, the youngsters spend most of their day in front of the PC or mobile devices that are easier to access. On a sample of 941 subjects between the ages of eight and twenty, 95 percent claim to own a personal computer and, among them, 38 percent spend in front of the monitor from one to three hours, always connected to the Internet. Colleagues, these data add to the significant percentages of uncontrolled use of smartphones by minors. And the time to stay for minors on the Internet is the risk that, while browsing, you can come across web pages with unsuitable content. And these risks are growing exponentially. I would point out that the data of the MOIGE association have increased by far compared to the data communicated in the previous investigation. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that an irresponsible and unmediated use of new technologies can lead to greater social closure in children and a lack of inclination to relate directly and physically to their peers, to the benefit of distant and virtual relationships that result in difficult understanding and classification; relationships that often, without the knowledge of parents, lead to attempts at violence. Documenting this situation is the most important aspect of a recent investigation by the State Police, in which it is evident that, on a sample of about 2,300 minors, 31 percent have suffered acts of violence on the Net. Therefore, these aspects cannot be underestimated. And this percentage goes up to 35% for girls. And, very often, minors do not talk to anyone about the violence they have suffered, not even with their parents, and do not express their own trauma or discomfort and unfortunately decide to face it often in complete loneliness. It should be noted that, in full continuity with what has been happening for a couple of decades, the legislator is also late in this, as the Undersecretary D'Onghia has acknowledged in assessing the interventions of the morning. The delay in regulating this phenomenon shows some slowness in relation to the speed at which changes occur, whether positive or negative, in our society. To define the phenomenon from a regulatory point of view as "the dissemination of online content, the purpose of which is intentional and predominant to isolate a minor or a group of minors, putting in place a serious abuse, a harmful attack or their ridicule" is, even if late, an aspect - let's recognize it - positive. A key role, however, in the prevention of these phenomena must be recognised at school. While sharing some areas on which the guidelines for countering cyberbullying provided for in the bill should develop, such as the promotion of the conscious use of the Internet in schools and the active involvement of students in cyberbullying prevention and combating initiatives, as well as the provision of support measures and re-education of minors who have been the subject of these attentions through the financing of specific recovery projects, I asked and agreed with the Government for the approval of the agenda G4200 (text 2). It is an agenda that calls for the support of professional educators and educators, undoubtedly leading professionalism in identifying the best educational and rehabilitation routes for children, but also very important as a reference for prevention and help to the teaching staff. These aspects are those that can help the world of school to meet and intervene promptly in the situations of attention, through social networks and the web, for minors. I also proposed that the technical table, which should have been set up at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, should include the participation of social networking service operators, as well as a representation of parents' associations, in order to ensure greater coordination and effectiveness of policies against cyberbullying. Unfortunately, this proposal has not been voted in favour of by the House. Although it is in its overall approach acceptable, we will therefore vote in favour of it, the bill presents some weaknesses, especially as regards the need to ensure as much information as possible on the phenomenon, the definition and promotion in schools of policies that discourage the use of social networks under the age of 14. We hope that the intentions accepted with the agenda will then be made effective in the concreteness of the addresses that will be given by the Minister. For this reason, we invite and continue to urge the Government to take all necessary initiatives, including those of a regulatory nature, so that in the classrooms the greatest possible information on the crime of cyberbullying is guaranteed and to support, in all schools of every order and grade, policies and programmes aimed at preventing this phenomenon from continuing to spread among our young people. This last commitment that we have asked arises from the assumption that the resources provided in the bill for the security and control activities against cyberbullying, as well as education in the school, and those carried out by the postal police are very limited in relation to the speed of diffusion of the phenomenon. The 265,000 euros for the year 2015 and the 220,000 euros for 2016 seem to us to be scarce resources and lead us, therefore, to consider the measure, although positive in its contents and therefore worthy of our favorable vote, as a simple starting point. We are aware that, if we do not opt for greater economic commitment in the future - and this is our fear - these rules risk remaining a weapon. We therefore call on the Government to invest in prevention in this area as well. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u96	We greet the students, students and teachers of the Consortium for Training, Innovation and Quality, Pinerolo, in the province of Turin. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u99	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, today the Senate takes the first step to fill a clear legislative vacuum in order to better address the progressive spread in Italy of the phenomenon of cyberbullying, understood as the set of acts of bullying and harassment carried out by electronic means such as e-mail, SMS, blogs, mobile phones and websites, put in place by minors who hit their peers unable to defend themselves. The studies published on this serious phenomenon show that cyberbulls believe they can hide behind anonymity; they think they are invisible, unidentifiable and, for this reason, to remain unpunished. At the same time, in the young victims it is very rooted the omerta because they are afraid that, trusting what happened, the parents forbid them access to the web and, above all, they feel weak, unable to defend themselves, feeding in them a very dangerous sense of shame and inadequacy. 18.15 p.m. (Following Mazzoni). The consequences of cyberbullying are often very serious, causing states of depression, anxieties, fears, frustrations, low self-esteem, school problems and, in the most extreme cases, suicidal ideas. For this reason, as well as for the awareness of the role assumed in recent years by social networks, which significantly expand the social networks of young people and all too often become the privileged space for the birth of unhealthy dynamics, which then risk to develop even outside the Internet, the legislator had the duty to intervene. It is useful, but above all urgent, to strengthen the action to protect minors with regard to the content on the Web and the behaviour they themselves adopt in using it, unaware or poorly aware of the mechanisms of protection of privacy and the risks to which they are exposed by making public details and behaviors related to their private life and, above all, that of their peers. Unfortunately, we are witnessing the growing tendency of young people to develop, through the use of the new media, an aggressive and violent form of sociality, which can lead to the adoption of those discriminatory and denigratory behaviors towards their peers, which often result precisely in episodes of cyberbullying, through the dissemination of post and images or the creation of "against" groups. In short, among the new generations, positive use of the network should be promoted as a functional tool for the growth of children and adolescents, as well as knowledge of the safety mechanisms and the tools of protection prepared by the operators themselves in the sector. The draft law we are about to vote on goes in exactly this direction and is the result of a long and detailed work done first within the Commission's extraordinary human rights and then, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, despite the usual budgetary problems, which block - or tend to block - any legislative initiative that comes from Parliament. Cyberbullying is the technological form of traditional bullying and constitutes a much more dangerous variant, because it takes place in an apparently virtual world, which has neither space nor time, but which then produces devastating effects in reality. The victim, in fact, cannot directly control on the Net the attacks he suffers and often does not even know who his hidden enemies are. It is a subtle violence, in front of which there is almost no defense. There is one particular fact that needs to be reflected: the vast majority of the crimes committed by teenagers are perpetrated through the school computer, thus creating a strange parallelism with the statistics that most of the computer crimes are committed by adults in the workplace and not by the place at home: how to say that, outside the home walls, there is a greater depersonalization of one's consciously negative conduct. Similarly, the illiteracy in the computer field of parents cannot be regarded as an attenuating one, which previously left the minor children for hours in front of the cartoons promised by television and now abandons them in the magnum sea of web surfing, a thousand times more dangerous. Many parents often fail to realize that, in addition to the educational damage, they have legal responsibility for the conduct of their children. In short, it takes a leap of overall, cultural quality, both from schools, which are required to monitor the negative potential of computer resources, and from parents, who cannot afford to say "I didn't understand anything" when it comes to the Internet or computers. As I have already mentioned, this bill goes in the right direction, because it aims to prevent cyberbullying with adequate education of children and adults and with the specific training of operators, starting with teachers and the postal police staff themselves. Thinking about banning young people's indiscriminate access to the web would do nothing. Rather, it is important to educate and educate children about the advantages and risks of the use of new technologies, but the main tool - I repeat - to combat the phenomenon is educational activity and the confrontation with children, within the two basic communities for their education: the school and, in fact, the family. It is necessary to arrive at a real pact of co-responsibility, encouraging schools to establish a direct channel with families in order to be able to take note of each other's development that cyberbullying is having, having to seek a solution together or in any case start a cure for this problem. I believe that the Senate, with the Ferrara law, has made a first fundamental contribution. For these reasons, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the adoption of this measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Palermo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u102	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, do we really need a law on cyberbullying? Much of the world of the Network asked itself this question, when about two years ago began the commitment that produced the bill no. 1261. The perception of the phenomenon has grown over time, against the many episodes, sometimes tragic, that have filled TV schedules and pages of newspapers. In the same way, among the many stakeholders, the awareness of the need for a rule to protect the dignity and rights of children on the Net has grown. Perhaps the digital definition is no longer sufficient to describe the relationship between the web and the last generations. Already preteens have the world in the pocket of jeans and are always connected to a digital reality, become in many ways a substitute or successor to experience, knowledge and authentic relationships. The investigation of the phenomenon tells us about girls and children at the age of seven, without an adult at their side. That's the point! Children activate their profiles on social networks to attract attention, increase visibility and feel accepted by the community, which is virtual in the method but real in substance. These behaviors stem from the natural need to build one's own identity, but - as we have pointed out in this House, and I really thank the many colleagues who have spoken - their skillful and compulsive activity in chatting, posting, publishing images and clicking does not mean, however, that they are able to manage the consequences, but also to protect themselves in advance. Everything is conditioned by the great misunderstanding: behind the false myth of anonymity you can assume any position, you can trivialize, exasperate and repeat every thought, every judgment. And everything runs very fast: a like referring to a denigrate content is an almost automatic passage, often free from moral filters. Everything seems easier: in digital space there is no need to defend itself from empathic reactions, from the emotional resonance that exposes to suffering. Everything becomes spectacle: an endless and repeated confirmation for the bullies of their victory and a merciless and amplified harassment for the reputation for the defeated. We have understood the complexity of the phenomenon we are facing, which intersects so many knowledges: evolutionary psychology, psychiatry, sociology, education and communication sciences, but also philosophy and, of course, law. Cyberbullying itself is not a crime, but the actions that characterize it can be criminally prosecuted. Threats, defamation, identity theft and the other realities we talked about are just some of the crimes that can be committed online by digital bullies. These actions are carried out lightly, often unknowingly, by minors against equals. For every child who offends one of his peers on social media there is our specific responsibility. We've left them too alone in the digital ocean so far. It is not easy for us adults to keep our course, either, but it is much more complex for children to be guided, to whom we have not offered the targeted training opportunities: training, prevention and concrete measures. The bill, born from the fact-finding investigation in the Human Rights Commission, which has seen me refer to my colleague Riccardo Mazzoni, whom I thank, introduces the warning procedure, as is the case with stalking, in order to make children over fourteen who have been responsible for conduct related to crime. The measure puts the legal question on a re-educational level, consistent with the procedures activated by the juvenile justice services and in line with the principles reaffirmed by the Child Protection Supervisor. This regulatory proposal gives a quality mark to companies that adopt child friendly configurations for devices and platforms, and collaborates with providers in a constructive way also through self-regulation codes. For the first time, children over 14 years old can request the cancellation of damaged material directly and, in case of non-admission, it is expected that the intervention of the Privacy Authority will be used. Having said that, we cannot, nor do we want to delegate to companies the monitoring of digital behavior, if not on precise and timely request. This measure tends to reach a delicate point of equilibrium, moving in full topicality. The need for the protection of personal data on the web has, in fact, recently led the United Nations Council to establish a special rapporteur on the right to privacy. The great opportunities for emancipation, communication and confrontation cannot be separated from a principle of digital citizenship, without which the sense of freedom that gives us the Internet would be without conscience and responsibility; a side effect that - as many colleagues have pointed out - seriously endangers the youngest, especially the most fragile subjects. For this reason, the rule establishes an interministerial table that brings together the institutions, associations - we have also recovered the theme of associations in more general terms - parents and students. It is a table open to companies in the new media sector, strong in the competence of the postal police; an institutional framework integrated and coordinated by the Ministry of Education, already head of Related Generations, the Italian Centre for Network Security co-financed by the European Commission, which has already had the merit of involving important realities such as Save the children and Blue Phone. This draft law sets out a series of provisions aimed at promoting a positive use of the Network and protecting minors from conduct detrimental to their dignity put in place by the children themselves. It has, therefore, cut out a very clear and precise scope. The legislative proposal is part of a broader, very current and subject of global reflection. The relationship between man and the web surpasses the historical concept of technological ambivalence and puts us in front of a crossroads. Does the idea of controlling the Internet for our security necessarily mean limits to everyone's freedom? Not necessarily, if we promote the responsible use of what remains a tool. We must do this in order to protect rights and certainly from the smallest. Let us help them understand that the Internet is a place of humanity, even before community, a place that generates true emotions, even in virtual friendships. It's no coincidence that the Court of Cassation compared the violence and sexual abuse on the web to the real ones. The school can do a lot - we said it and you said it - and a lot is already doing. We need to build on the good practices that we have evidence of. There are already networks between local and school autonomy, social services (I also think of consortia and specialized figures who already work in schools) and the Forces of Order that operate in synergy with the individual local realities, also with protocols of understanding formalized on even vast territories. Interesting peer education projects have been in progress for a long time, activated by several institutes throughout the country. These are methods and experiences that we must have the strength to remember, to give them continuity and to make available to all students, teachers and families methods and experiences that have produced results. A structured and extended intervention to the whole national territory has been identified by the Guidelines for the prevention and the contrast of bullying and cyberbullying, which the Minister of Education presented last April and for which appropriate resources are foreseen. Yes, the resources are never enough, but two million euros are still an important way to begin, which is in addition to those made available by Article 5 of the measure that we propose to approve at this sitting. The training of students is the first step towards digital citizenship recalled by the Charter of Rights on the Internet, drawn up by the homonymous Commission set up in the Chamber of Deputies. As is well known, behaviour is the result of a choice, even before regulatory taxation. In this regard, if we help our children to choose and if we accompany them on the Internet with the attention and care that we often dedicate, with excessive care, even to the simplest urban movements, then online relations will be able to respond more broadly to the good rules of civil coexistence, inclusion and solidarity. Girls and boys - their own - are asking for help, starting from school, because all too often they run into the shirts of conditioning, discrimination and isolation. It happened to Carolina, Tommaso, Andrea, Nadia, Aurora: a burden that has brought them into an abyss of loneliness, in the dark of their parents; a discomfort that school and family cannot intercept in time, especially if they lack adequate resources, skills and structures. Starting from their stories, from the deep reflections that have followed and from the identification of coherent measures, the Democratic Party strongly votes this bill, stressing the importance of a path shared with the other political forces, majority and minority, as happened in the passages in the Human Rights Commission and in the 1st Commission. Also on behalf of the Group, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the ageing of the text. I would like to thank the President of the Senate, the Presidents of the two committees involved, Finocchiaro and Manconi, and President Azzollini, who today has worked very hard. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Palermo, Mr Giannini and the Minister for Justice, Mr Orlando, as well as Ms D'Onghia and Mr Pizzetti, who, as senators, lived from the beginning and heard the alarm cry that has been raised in this House. I can assure you that there have been many other people, both parliamentarians and non-parliamentarians, who have given strength, even in the territories, to this proposal: a deeply motivated task force, often marked or witness to the lives of suffering, including the parents of children who are no longer there today. The attention that the Senate is devoting today to girls and boys who risk being caught up in the Network is a further confirmation that politics is responsibly at the service of the country: we can be proud to be the first, in the face of a global problem, to have identified answers and to have shared them. We are sure that these provisions to protect the dignity of children in preventing and combating cyberbullying will find adequate attention in the continuation of the legislative process at the end of which we can finally say that we are satisfied. But we will not let our guard down on this phenomenon. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Blundo, Palermo and Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u103	I put to the vote the bill No. 1261, in the amended text. The Senate approves. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, it seems to me that it has been approved unanimously or almost unanimously. [[Comments of Senator Bencini]] The draft law No 1620 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u104	The next item is the debate on document XXII- bis, No 2. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Fabbri, if she wishes to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u105	Yes, Madam President. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u106	Colleagues, we allow the rapporteur to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u107	FABBRI, rapporteur. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work and occupational diseases, with particular regard to the system of health protection which I am honored to chair, was set up last September and was set up by resolution of the Senate of 4 December 2013. The Commission of Inquiry investigates the causes, reasons, costs... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u108	Senator Bernini, colleagues, even if you speak on the phone or lower your voice or the rapporteur is unable to continue. Please, rapporteur, see if the kindness of your colleagues allows you to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u109	FABBRI, rapporteur. Thank you, Madam President. The Commission of Inquiry investigates the causes, the reasons, the costs, the costs of the social scourge of accidents and intervenes specifically whenever serious and particular accidents at work occur, significant of specific themes, including by ordering the competent prefectures to acquire all the information about them. It carries out investigations and examinations with the same powers and limitations as the judicial authority, applying the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure as compatible. It is yesterday our decision to open a file of inquiry on the stake of terminal 3 at Fiumicino airport. In addition to the above investigations and examinations, the Commission may acquire documents, news and information in such a way as it considers most appropriate, including through knowledge surveys and free hearings. In view of the tasks entrusted to the Commission, from the outset we have followed all significant cases of fatal accidents at work and for each of them we have, thanks to the cooperation of the Carabinieri, instructed the files to investigate their causes. We considered it essential to hold hearings of institutional actors and social partners, with a view to acquiring information on general issues relating to accidents and occupational diseases. Moreover, although we have no competence in general environmental pollution situations, we have investigated the health aspects of the working environment and the occupational diseases of employees in production plants operating in areas at particular risk. Specifically we have dedicated particular attention to the area of Taranto, where we will go on mission at the end of September, and to the areas where the asbestos issue has insisted, starting from Casale Monferrato, site where we will go on the days of 8 and 9 June next. We have also decided to investigate safety in so-called large works, starting from Expo, a model to follow also with regard to safety at work, with 1.18 million square meters of surface, equal to 180 series A football fields; 1.3 billion euros of investments; 53 Participating countries; 1,200 companies involved, with more than 5,000 workers, with important work on prevention and training on safety in the workplace. These are the numbers of the event, which give a sense of the great effort and of the great work done, an activity carried out thanks also to the synergy of the various bodies and social partners involved that, also in the matter of safety, was decisive, with a control of accidents and accidents absolutely in the norm. This is why we must not lower our guard and continue to pay close attention to safety and prevention issues, even during the dismantling phase of the works. The Commission will return to Milan during the six months of the Universal Exhibition, with the aim of monitoring the safety rules in the phase of dismantling the structures. The cycle of hearings which the Commission saw engaged began last October with the presence of the Minister for Labour, Giuliano Poletti. Among the considerations that emerged and shared there is certainly to work to reduce accidents and intervene on the topic of occupational diseases, acting also on the issue no less worrying than accidents in itinere, actions on which to intervene, legalizing on the cohesion capacity of all the institutional actors concerned, reviving the theme of the effectiveness of the interventions. Many of these actions, as the Minister also pointed out, are built for a totally vertical supply chain. Each subject now acts by virtue of a rule that gives him exclusive competence, with rules to be observed and with limits that lead however to the paradox that one goes to the company for one aspect, but one does not look at its complexity, because legitimately of competence of other subjects. The subject of overall governance is therefore crucial in bringing together and improving not only working conditions but also its security. In the context of this strategy there is an urgent need to promote actions to revisit and modernise the rules, including the completion of the rules, starting from the implementation of the implementing decrees referred to Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008 and, last but not least, to implement the SINP (National Information System of Prevention). Safety culture, training, risk assessment, bureaucracy, economic incentives for companies investing in safety and work environments are imperative objectives. Applause for the speeches that in recent years INAIL has developed, as has also emerged during the hearing of its president, Dr De Felice: there is a need to produce favourable conditions that find recognition in relation to the charges for the INAIL prizes. Entrepreneurs need to be supported in this effort by appropriate policies and programmes, modulated and finalized lines of action for companies investing in improving their prevention activities. This is also evident in the hearings of the employers, both in the craft sector and in industry and in agriculture. An important work is also carried out by the trade unions of audit workers, CGIL, CISL and UIL, united in affirming the importance of reconciling the need for simplification with that of maintaining the standards of protection in the field of accidents. Last but not least, I would like to mention the hearing of ANMIL (National Association mutilated and disabled of the job), with its president Franco Bettoni, an association for 71 years in the front row, committed to supporting the victims of accidents at work and their families. With a network of legal professionals, legal doctors and psychologists, he works on the spread of culture to safety and on the not negligible theme of job reintegration. Particular attention should be paid to the asbestos issue, which will be the subject to which the Commission will devote itself in the coming months. Following the judgment of the Court of Cassation on the Eternit case, received with concern and dismay by the public, while respecting the autonomy of the judiciary, which declared the limitation of the crime of disaster, the issue must be followed carefully, because the decision could open a precedent also for other proceedings in progress. This is why the Commission has decided over the past few months to assist Prosecutor Guariniello, who has initiated that criminal process and has put forward the proposal of a national prosecutor in the field of accidents at work on the grounds of the high number of accidents at work and occupational diseases occurring in Italy. The answer to this question is not about the quality of legislation in this area, which is adequate and better than the yet effective legislation launched in the 1950s. The fundamental problem is the failure to implement the law and the lack of controls entrusted to the supervisory bodies and to the judiciary itself. Asbestos, Madam President, which has been banned in Italy under Law 257 of 1992, now also requires a high level of attention to clean-up operations. There is still a huge amount of asbestos in the country. Preventing other victims is a priority. It is today the news of the death of a man of seventy-seven years, who had worked as a driver in the years between 1974 and 1985 as a builder in buildings and warehouses of a company, where he would come into contact with asbestos: these are things we would no longer like to read. The reclamation operations will last a long time, so there will be many workers and citizens directly affected by such actions exposed to the risk. The focus on the prevention of contact with asbestos fibres is now much higher than in the past, but the vastness of the reclamation operations and their capillarity, combined with the feeling that very often in the reclamation tanks do not take all the necessary attention and prevention measures, leads us to believe that the alert threshold should be very high. On the other hand, the National Prevention Plan gives indications of the opportunity to raise the proportion of shipyards subject to inspections by ASLs and labour inspectorates from 15% to 20%. The threshold of attention, therefore, cannot go down, but must increase, as it emerged during the National asbestos Conference held in Venice in November 2012. What was to be done, however, has not yet been implemented. In this regard, another problem arises, that of the site mapping operation, which - as has already been pointed out in the course of the work of this Commission of Inquiry - still leaves room for many details, as incomplete (I remember that its implementation, among other things, was one of the objectives of the environment area of the National Asbestos Plan): the number of 34,000 sites is certainly approximated by default and the last update is of November 2014, date when the only region not yet recorded turns out to be Calabria. The figures show considerable disproportion between the various regional censuses, which seem to refer more to the way in which they are carried out than to the real situation. 50% of the sites to be reclaimed appear to be present in Marche and Abruzzo: this figure obviously leads to believe that there is an anomaly in the detection system. A reliable mapping, however, is the prerequisite for any reclamation operation. In this regard, we also audit the representatives of the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, which on 7 May in the State-Regions Conference signed the agreement on the qualification of public and private laboratories for a homogeneous mapping of asbestos sites throughout the country. It will be important to work so that the State can give the family members of asbestos victims the opportunity to deal with the costly procedures that can recognize the damage they have suffered, which are certainly incalculable on a human level, but which each of us must bear. Recent data show that accidents at work are constantly decreasing, but unfortunately occupational diseases are increasing: this is a major evolution of organisational models, materials used for the processing and production and technologies used. Not only is it important to ensure that workers are informed and aware, but data collection is a particularly important element because these phenomena are not individually striking. An accident is a matter of dramatic evidence; an occupational disease is, at times, difficult to identify and qualify as such, and often develops after years. From this point of view, for a precise definition of the number, type, size and severity of accidents, the statistical plan is important, and that is why I would understand and intend to work on a side that we hope will be adopted in all areas. In the coming months, the Commission will carry out specific investigative activities on the so-called evaluation of public policies in order to verify the effectiveness of some of the actions carried out in recent years in the field of safety at work. In particular, it is pointed out that in the field of accident prevention there is a significant statistical decrease in the number of accidents and, at the same time, as was said, a numerical increase in cases of occupational diseases. However, it is necessary to assess, in terms of policy evaluation and in accordance with a rigorous approach based on objective and scientific criteria, whether the decrease in accidents is the consequence of specific public policies promoted in this field through Legislative Decree No 81 of 2008, or, vice versa, whether this trend is causally attributable to other factors (e.g. the reduction in hours worked as a result of the economic crisis). Similarly, it would be useful to assess whether the increase in occupational diseases is attributable to a deficiency in policies adopted in this field or, vice versa, whether it is attributable to other causal factors (e.g. the evolution of diagnostic instruments). The evaluation of public policies is a new perspective of Parliament's inquiry, which the Commission intends to pursue in full, pending the undoubted usefulness of this investigative activity for the polity marker, which in a sensitive sector such as that of occupational safety will increasingly have to comprehend and relate its choices to objective and scientifically proven cognitive awareness, so as to increase the effectiveness of the interventions. I mentioned first the audition of D.A. Guariniello and the idea of building a National Public Prosecutor's Office for Labour Security. Well, we believe that the option is difficult to implement, also because the configuration of the accident prevention phenomenon is not articulated in a network of interconnections between the various territorial areas (I refer, for example, to the national prosecutor anti-mafia). It is desirable, in our opinion, that in the next execution of the delegation of the jobs act on the single agency on it all the responsibilities of coordination and supervision be assumed in order to overcome overlaps of competence and duplication of controls, with a clear inefficiency of which everyone pays the consequences; all: enterprises, workers and the public apparatus of control. We believe that the agency should prepare and coordinate inspection forces; provide investigative support; have competence that does not involve changes to the judiciary; keep databases and links with the SINP; connect with other agencies, bodies, bodies responsible for specific areas of lawlessness. As an alternative, of course with no presumption but in an attempt to suggest our thoughts, the solution focused on the single agency can give rise to the establishment of a technical-scientific body that can carry out all the tasks listed above. The study of data on accidents at work and occupational diseases, taking into account the outcome of the proceedings, shows a critical picture that can be summarized in the following points: prevention and repression; uniform and unique training of inspection personnel; concentration of inspection forces; personal exposure and environmental difficulties; the often, unfortunately, disparity of treatment between victims. To conclude, Mr President, by asking that the full text of the report be left to the record, I would like to refer to two points on which the report focuses. On the training and dissemination of the safety culture, which is a fundamental prerequisite for achieving the objective of reducing accidents at work, the efficiency and effectiveness of training instruments must be reconciled. It is itself an essential element in assessing the risks and knowing the consequences. Training, a strategic tool for prevention, now regulated by coordinated State-Regions agreements often includes repetitions and non-homogeneous criteria. In order to overcome this situation, there is a need for effective training in relation to the real risk present in the workplace which supports the employer's obligations and is timely for workers. Last but not least, there is the importance of gender-related protection, which cannot be excluded from the problems of work organisation, the commitment to care and the specific features of women's work. In conclusion, thanking the President of the Senate, Pietro Grasso, for having strongly believed in the commitment of this Commission, also thanking my fellow Commissioners from all the parliamentary groups, Commission officials and consultants, I hope that the next few months will be devoted to the result for which we are working and that he will take up the considerations made at the hearing also by Minister Poletti. The expected result on the subject of health and safety at work, the reduction of accidents and occupational diseases will be a key element in reconciling justice and economic development. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Fabbri, the Presidency authorizes you to attach the full text of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u112	TONINI (PD). Madam President, in a few minutes' time, the House is due to have an important hearing by Minister Padoan before the joint and joint committees on the budget and work of the two branches of Parliament on the issue of pensions. I have also taken the view of the other groups, and it seems to me that there is broad agreement in asking the Presidency to conclude our sitting in order to facilitate participation in this hearing, and then to resume our work on this item on the agenda at tomorrow morning's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u113	If there are no objections, the Presidency can access this request, also considering that this is the only item on the agenda for tomorrow's sitting and, therefore, we will in any case be able to conclude it. I shall therefore refer the document back to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u116	PADUA (PD). Madam President, I take this precious opportunity to offer the House and its attention to a statement that I sent to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Angelino Alfano, a week ago. Since I have received no reply, I would like to represent it to the House and give it to your attention. It concerns, once again, the problem of migrants, which I have dealt with many times in this House with other colleagues. Many times we have had the opportunity to talk about it and there is no day when, by turning on the television, we do not hear of the umpteenth landing of people fleeing from situations of discomfort. These are situations that we know well, but maybe we don't know the numbers, which are really dramatic. Today, at the Human Rights Commission meeting, I was able to listen to an UNHCR official. He reported how, for the first time since the end of World War II, refugees seeking asylum and internally displaced persons around the world have exceeded the number of 50 million people. Never so many people have been forced to flee because of violence and persecution. In 2014, people from 40 different countries and three different continents crossed the Mediterranean, coming from countries at war, such as Syria, or where human rights violations are perpetuated, as in Eritrea. [[Brusio.]] Madam President, I understand that numbers are not very exciting, but they help to get an idea.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u117	Colleagues, I would ask you to lower your voice because Senator Padua cannot speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u118	So, if you could be so kind as to get away from me, since the session is almost over, those who have interest will be able to listen and those who are intervening are not forced to interrupt. PADUA (PD). Thank you, Madam President. In 2014, some 220,000 refugees and migrants arrived in Europe, compared to 63,000 in 2013. During the first four months of 2015, some 46,000 people arrived, marking a growth of 25 percent compared to last year. We can understand, therefore, without any need to quote further numbers, which we also have, that the phenomenon is dramatically structural. The House and our President-in-Office have taken care of this by paying attention to it at European level. The reason for my speech is that our Government, our Assembly and our work have recognized some communities, but others have unfortunately been completely forgotten. I am a representative of Sicily, whom we have all praised and appreciated for the extraordinary effort that has been on that island for years on this front. I repeat this because some regions of our country are altered and have little willingness to welcome even for a few dozen people. The island has finally received attention in one part of it, while the rest of the other communities have been forgotten. In particular, I refer to the South-East of Sicily itself. I quickly read the letter I deliver: I would like to write to you, Minister, to express my sincere satisfaction with the recent approval by CIPE of the allocation of resources for the plan of interventions for the island of Lampedusa, established by the Stability Act for 2014. The aim of the proposed allocation of these funds, as you are well aware, was to deal with the very serious socio-economic situation resulting from the extraordinary migratory flows in progress. It is indispensable, therefore, a substantial intervention of the Government, in support of those who, with their own hand and away from the moments and places in which immigration policies are decided, lends their support to the reception of families and desperate people fleeing from absolutely tragic contexts, in the hope of a future that ensures the minimum of rights of which every human being is the bearer by nature. However, I cannot fail to pay your attention to the fact that if the noble basic intention on the allocation of these funds is to improve the quality of the infrastructure and services available to the citizens of Lampedusa and Linosa, we cannot look elsewhere today at the same needs as those areas which are equally welcoming in our peninsula. In other words, you can certainly not forget that South-East Sicilian most exposed today to migratory flows, Pozzallo in the first place, where a strong, tangible and determined signal from the State is no longer procrastinable. Last May 5 was auditioned in Committees constitutional affairs to the Senate the mayor of the Municipality of that generous community, in order to make the Commission of the extreme financial and logistic discomfort against which, in practice, we are faced with the daily emergency of the landings. However, the same word emergency refers directly to a context in which the requirement of predictability is lacking, while today, unfortunately, in Pozzallo, the issue is structural. The numbers of arrivals of migrants, both those estimated pro futuro and those calculated in relation to landings relative to previous years, are constantly growing and without adequate support also for this Municipality, more and more at the forefront of news news for tragic events, that compensatory idea, not only symbolic, destined in favor of Lampedusa and Linosa will risk to remain stunted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Undersecretary Pizzetti is present, who may represent his solicitation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u121	DI GIORGI (PD). Madam President, I would like to speak briefly to bring to the attention of my fellow Members a problem which is currently causing a great deal of debate in Tuscany, particularly in Pisa. I am referring to this very serious episode of racism against a girl in school. Today we talked about cyberbullying. This is also a sort of bullying with the peculiarity of racism. It is a girl in whose books were placed horrendous cards with indication actually unhearable and with judgments compared to her being a Senegalese girl who frankly in a civilized country do not want to hear. Of course, as usually happens in those territories, the reaction was of great civilization on the part of the principal, the institutions and teachers and so on. Why do I want to bring this issue to the attention of this House? Of course because it is right to talk about the episodes of incivilization that happen in our country, which unfortunately are many. Since the time available to me is short, I will give the written text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. There are thousands of defined cases of racial discrimination in Italy and hundreds of them take place in schools. This is the great defeat and from this point of view too we must be very vigilant, because the cases are increasing. Of course, electoral campaigns, such as those we are seeing at the moment, must also be taken into account when some parties feel that they can vote, working on such negative aspects of the human personality, such as xenophobia and racism. Just such incidents as the subject of my speech must make us think and understand that this is not how we can express our own particularity and ideas in an electoral campaign. At least on some principles we should all agree: we should all consider them intangible. At least racism and xenophobia must be outside our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u122	The Presidency authorizes you to leave the part of your speech which you have not read to the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u125	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, I do not want to go into the matter of the latest football scandal: as a sportsman, especially in love with sport, I have a duty to denounce him in this House, but I do not really want to use him. I just want to give value and voice to loyalty. Loyalty is the true talent that every athlete must possess, in order to be loved and respected, because sport means loyalty, friendship and commitment. Even when one is defeated - or rather, when one fails to win - the values of clean sport will always help those who choose them, for themselves and to share them with others. Those who are smart and disloyal may also win some games with deception, but they will never win in life. I can say this from experience and for having inherited these values from my father and my uncle, who were football referees like me, and from my educators in the minibasket: the same goes for all those who have practiced other sports. The new scandals related to football bets, with dozens of suspects and arrests and even with the involvement of the 'ndrangheta are just one of the many symptoms of what does not work in this country. Too often in Italy you have the impression that winning is the only important thing, in any way and at any cost. Those who win are always right and can do whatever they want, at least until they are thrown down by someone else who is even more disloyal and dishonest than he is. We must all reverse the course and work to bring honesty back to the centre of sport in Italy, as well as in every other aspect of our entire social life. Only respect for the rules can save us and I am talking about the right rules, all written together, with and for the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u128	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, speaking on behalf of the Group of the North Legacy, I would like to refer to yet another disturbing issue concerning immigration. Already from last March, national and international sources of significant authority have supported the thesis that the Libyan branch of the so-called Islamic State, a dangerous transnational terrorist organization, is also involved in the management of illegal migratory flows, which according to some personalities, such as the Libyan Government adviser Abdul Basit Haroun, would have long used boats to infiltrate dangerous personnel of the organization in Europe, through Italy. This last circumstance seems to have been strongly confirmed by the arrest, in the surroundings of Milan, of the Moroccan citizen Touil Abdel Majid sought by the Tunisian judiciary as suspected of having taken part in the terrorist attack at the Bardo Museum. Until now, however, authoritative representatives of the Government, as well as Ministers, have repeatedly publicly and officially denied the possibility that terrorists could arrive in Italy through the Mediterranean, but unfortunately this has been denied by the facts. We fear that unfortunately a certain type of policy has in fact favoured, through illegal immigration, the forms of terrorist infiltration in our country. For this reason, the entire Group of the North League, the individual senators and Members of the Chamber, presented a statement to the Republic's Public Prosecutor at the Court of Rome. In addition, we have already prepared a parliamentary question in order to point out these facts, to find some responsibilities and certainly to hope that the Government will take the most serious measures in order to eliminate and stop this type of phenomenon. Let us remember that one thing is immigration, another is terrorism. We're talking about something really worrying.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u129	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-454.ana.u130	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.07.
