ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 8 January.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1385, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of a bill of popular initiative and the draft own-initiative law of the Cirielli deputies; Pisicchio; Bersani and others; Francesco Saverio Romano; Best and others; Lenzi; Zampa and Marzano; Zampa and Ghizzoni; Martella; Francesco Sanna; Bobba and others; Giachetti and others; Giorgia Meloni and others; Rigoni and others; Rigoni and others; Nicoletti and others; Martella and others; Vargiu; Burtone and others; Balduzzi and others; Laffranco and others; Vargiu; Toninelli and others; Door and others; Zaccagnini and others; Valiante and others; Lauricella; Michele Bordo; Marco Meloni and others; Di Battista and others, and 1449.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u9	Mr President, the future balance of power: it is useless to use euphemisms, periphrases or twists of words, that is what we are going to redefine with electoral law, that is, power in a democratic country. Today, here, we are tracing, with successive changes and approximations, pulling and loosening the elastic of the reforms, the structure of the games of force that will decree the fate of our country, and democracy, in this game, does not seem to me a priority issue. Someone, of course, at the crack of the media, has been concerned to simulate the opposite, concealing however, in the dark folds of the Nazarene pact, clumsy and clumsy secret weapons, as the norm saves Berlusconi, pops up in the decree delegated on the tax, which at the moment seems foiled. Too trivial and obvious to exhume the norms ad personam, better to think of a mere mistake. However, errors are no longer allowed: electoral reform and the election of the President of the Republic have a substantial specific weight, which requires cohesion and firm nerves. On paper, Renzi and Berlusconi probably have the numbers to pass the Italicum, if they prove to each other that they can count on the cohesion of the party, the first, and have skillful, though few, soldiers of Pericles, the second. To support, however, as Renzi does, that the mechanism of the blocked capilist of Italicum unites the advantages of Mattarellum with those of the preferences shows a state of disassociation of ideas; a true false, I add, since the capilists will be elected as chosen by the parties, as in the Porcellum, and not by the citizens in their respective colleges. This compromise certainly stems from the fact that the system of blocked lists has been rejected by the Constitutional Court and therefore in the final agreement it has had to be foreseen that only the capilists - who will then be the first to be elected - will be blocked and that instead, from the second elected onward, preferences will intervene (and it is assumed that each elector will be able to express two). This system will have as a consequence that the smaller parties, which will hardly elect more than one member of parliament in one constituency, will see the leaders elected, while the larger parties will also have a small, small and extremely small proportion of MPs chosen with preferences. The ways in which to introduce preferences in Italicum 2 therefore remains an open issue, particularly delicate in a country like ours, after the pure proportionality of the first Republic, the Mattarellum of the elections of 1994, 1996 and 2001, the Porcellum of the elections of 2006, 2008 and 2013, the Italicum and all the paradoxes that have involved over time. At this point in the debate, the judgment does not deviate from that expressed from the beginning on the establishment of Law No 270 of 2005, after a careful examination of the proposals in the field, which see the return to the Mattarellum desired in several texts, also ours, such as the proposal of law n. 632, and the return to the Mattarellum with modifications. We are, however, starting from the assumption of the unconstitutionality of Law No 270 of 2005, with respect to the rules that provide for the award of a majority prize for Chamber and Senate to the list and coalition that have obtained the highest number of votes. We continue to argue that Porcellum - and its close relative, Italicum 2 - is still detrimental to the principle of democratic representation. However, we acknowledge the attempts to compromise, a critical point in the debate in this House, on the issue of the barrier threshold set at 3% national. This is a remarkable change from the original agreements of the Nazarene Pact. In the text approved by the House in March there was the threshold of 8% for the lists that decided to appear alone - a threshold so high does not exist in any country of the European Union - and of 4.5% for those who chose to enter a coalition, a threshold that would not leave much choice to small parties, as in Porcellum, with the definitive disappearance from the institutional scenario and a seeming survival to guarantee a minimum political autonomy, a sort of disappointing, even a little offensive, concept of representativeness, but without concrete possibility of creating obstacles to the governability of broad understandings. It is so easily explained that the Italicum, apparently borrowed from the Spanish electoral system, once modified to adapt it to the demands of the Italian parties, has been substantially altered into a hybrid difficult to classify. Even the raising of the threshold from 37 to 40% to obtain the majority prize and the award of the prize to the party and not to the winning coalition leave open a debate not indifferent, and it does not surprise us the malleability of Berlusconi, willing to give up also on the subject of preferences that, with the capilists blocked, would in fact and very partially refer only to the party that wins the elections and that has the majority prize. On the contrary, the amendments of the minority, including the Democratic Party, for the elimination of the capilists blocked in the colleges, preferences valid for all and lists blocked in each region with which to elect 25% of the parliamentarians are interesting. With this we return to the initial premise: the real unresolved issue of Italicum is about preferences, on which the equally dubious one of assigning the majority prize to the list and not to the coalition is grafted. It is said that this would serve to circumvent the constitutional censures, but it would create an unacceptable paradox: to lower electoral consensus would correspond a higher consensus and a majority prize. In this general confusion, leading to further settlement in the coming hours, it is clear that all the shadow cones of the most technical aspects of the electoral law (from the preferences, to the number of nominations through the blocked capilists) will find a solution in yet another compromise by this Government linked to the issue of the election of the new Head of State. Faced with this scenario, the proportional, the majority prizes, the barrier thresholds, the provincial districts and the double turn take on the value of mere literary divertissement, when most probably the die is already taken for a while. Similarly, it does not console us with the agreement in the majority that at least 40% of the capelists are women. Too bad that this last point does not at all guarantee that it will be a reasonable number of women to be elected. It will all depend on how the lists are written and, once again, on the leaders of the individual parties. As if that were not enough, the external Diktat again imposed on the times of approval of the electoral law, this time contingent of the election of the President of the Republic. Senator Tocci is right when he says that this Government is constantly looking for models that increase the speed of law approval in a sort of legislative futurism that promises efficiency and gets only and absolutely bureaucracy in a decision-making without any real decision. On the contrary, we appreciate, with Luigi Einaudi, the parliamentary slowness as the virtue capable of leaving time for the incubation of thought and discussion to develop thoughtful solutions, since we are talking about changes that will condition politics for the next decades and that, if they do not bring the appropriate correctives, could create a serious vulnus of democracy. I am also puzzled about the majority prize. If the most voted list gets at least 40 percent of the votes (threshold raised from 35 to 37 percent and then just 40 percent), it will get a majority prize, which will award the list more voted 340 seats out of 617. On the other hand, if no party or coalition were to reach 40%, it would trigger a second electoral round to award the majority prize. The two lists most voted in the first round would be in the second round, and the winner will receive a majority prize of 53% of the seats, equal to 327 Members. I followed with interest the simulation of the Senator of the Fornar Democratic Party, presented in recent weeks to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, based on the polls. Indeed, with Italicum 2, only political forces that reached more than 20% would elect Members with preferences, while others would be elected only on the basis of blocked capilists. At this stage the PD would elect 340, one hundred "blocked" and 240 with preferences. All other parties would elect their representatives only with the system of blocked capilists. In essence, more than half of Parliament would be appointed and we would be included again in the reference to unconstitutionality already widely raised. Not to mention that there would be the paradox of the concentration of power at the head of the secretary of the victorious party, who would elect the Head of State and the most important bodies to guarantee constitutional balances. The enormous majority prize therefore undermines the principle of equality of voting and profoundly alters the composition of democratic representation, on which the entire architecture of the current constitutional order is based, compromising the representative function of the Assembly. The failure to predict preferences would then result in the decline of the vote, which would become substantially indirect, with the result of depriving citizens of the right to influence the election of their representatives. The elections in which the ballot is used, where it is applied, (in Italy itself, and who knows where), teach us that paradoxical situations can be created. Here it is not a question of managing or governing a city or province well (I mean when there was a direct vote, by universal suffrage, also for the Provinces); sometimes, in fact, through the ballot, it happened that the list arrived second to the first round (so with a majority vote contrary) determined the election of mayors or presidents of the Province that in the first round, for the division that can be determined in the political scenario, had taken a percentage of support or votes that I would dare call inferior. So we would assign to those who win an absolute and armored majority, which can then determine a whole series of interventions on the general institutional architecture. It is not a joke or a tweet when it comes to deciding these fundamental and structural choices of our democratic system. Left Ecology and Freedom from the beginning of the legislature had presented a bill to restore the Mattarellum and cannot remain indifferent to this sort of electoral counter-reform, which would propose, albeit with correctives - some even worsening, such as that of the ballot - the same system cancelled by the Constitutional Court. For this reason too, it would undoubtedly have been wiser to deal with the reform of the electoral system which was not separated from the debate on the amendment of our Constitution, so as to work on maintaining the system of weights and balances, to guarantee democratic balances. For example, the problem of the Senate remains completely unsolved in this context, up to possible constitutional change, and that of guaranteeing a national majority prize with the binding rule of election of the Senate on a regional basis; this constraint also prevents the reduction of electoral districts, which coincide with the Regions for the Senate, in order to reduce the number of candidates on the blocked list. As Carlo Galli pointed out in a conference on reforms, we are totally delivered to contingency, everything is thought for immediacy. With this system the Government becomes the holder of supreme legitimacy for having won elections managed by an electoral law built specifically to simplify and suppress the existing political forces - except for two or three - and to prevent the emergence of future ones, to build a society in which politics has no articulated form and the interest in politics, although translated into autonomous forms, has no tools to influence institutional activity. Since the relationship between politics and the economy cannot be put into practice, let us make the political system a space in which only the government can distangle itself. We proceed in announced stages and no one dares think of the future: the hope of an organic solution for democratic policy is temporarily closed. Everything is confusing and hectic. Even in the parties we are witnessing a general call to the count, to breakdowns and reaggregations that recall the thickening of ants, not around a political idea, but behind a contingent interest, or the thrust of the feared chaos. This is not the future we are called by the Kantian ethical imperative of political faith. Similarly, we are not taking into account the teachings of our recent history: after the significant electoral changes in Italy of 1993 and 2005 we should have learned by now the harmfulness of electoral laws ad personam for those who are in government and especially for those who are governed. Much less have we been able to approach European electoral models tested by positive examples of democracy, such as France's dual-round majority electoral system or Germany's proportional access threshold system. Terrified by the spectre of the elections (or, perhaps, even the spectre of the concrete completion of reforms without any alibi anymore), we are losing sight of the central issue and we are expanding in the debate on correctives, albeit of great interest. A good proposal in this regard was, for example, that of Besostri, where he proposed the adoption of an electoral code that includes the various types of election and the reforms on the financing of electoral campaigns; it is a pity that this proposal is difficult to apply in a country like ours, without any stability of the electoral systems, which seems to have introduced a chronic condition of destructuring the political system. Again, with the intention of correcting the Italian criticalities as the constant decrease in electoral participation (think of the 2014 European elections and the recent regional elections), I particularly appreciated the idea of introducing, in the interest of the representativeness of the elected bodies, a sort of "level of participation" of those entitled to the award of the majority prize. This and other appropriate corrective measures that can encourage the formation of more stable majorities than those which the history of recent years has accustomed us make us think that it would perhaps have been possible to pursue the path of electoral reform based on the majority single systems. However, at this point, the discussion focuses on the model of reform that was approved in the House. This model is very critical, as I have always said: even the initial debate in the Commission, which seemed to me to have led to a minimum of mutual listening, has rightly stopped immediately. In fact, when, even in a sporadic way, we determine in our country and our institutions a level of listening, albeit critical and although dictated - of course - by an contradictory of ideas, we immediately put the bite and drop the mannaia. And here we are, with things and projects that, at this point, it becomes difficult to oppose an organic thought and an alternative proposal. In fact, we risk all assuming positions that, instead, need to be excavated and analyzed, just as an excessive praise of preferences. In fact, it is clear that if, in front of the nominations, one is desperately trying to have and give an instrument to the voters to choose, we cannot forget what preferences mean. Even in the face of the panorama of events related to corruption and scandals (even the most recent: let us think about that of Mafia Capitale), we must be able to ask ourselves and think whether, with the appropriate measures and changes, the system of colleges can be the one that causes greater clarity among voters and that can also determine forms of permanent control of the elected towards the mandate they have received. Maybe this happens on a given territory where it can be analyzed not only the moment of the electoral phase, but also the behaviors and relations that take place between the elected or the elected, the citizens and the civil, economic and social fabric of the territory itself. Finally, I believe that we are faced with a situation in which we cannot think of having an abstract debate quickly, as if it were disarticulated by the conditions that the country lives, not only of strong economic discomfort and living conditions, but also strongly marked by what really would be the great campaign and battle to do, all of them, regardless of political positions. I am referring to the need to put the moral question back at the center of our country, and not with a moralistic cut, not with a tweet in which it is said that those who have stolen will pay and serve (and we would miss something else, we would miss that this did not happen), but placing as an element of political initiative the ability of the political system to renew itself and get out clean, because, otherwise, if it will not be able and will not be authoritative, it will not succeed to go in countertendance with respect to the complete disaffection by the citizens towards politics; a disaffection that translates into abstentionism at the time of the electoral passages, also because of phenomena that see politics overwhelmed by scandals and the malpractices of the affair of public management. It is a moral question, not a moral question, as Berlinguer put it, which is often cited to operate in a completely opposite sense. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u10	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u11	Colleagues, for almost two years I have been hearing, initially very carefully, about electoral law, first in the Commission and then also in the House. We have come to this House on this occasion by force, determined by the existence of a political agreement, which is the stone party leading the debate; if we can call a debate what is taking place in an almost distracted, empty Chamber, with so many and so many absent. In fact, everyone, no one excluded, unknowingly knows that there is very little to debate here, because the decision, that in a democratic procedure should follow the listening to the other thesis and should be enriched by the attention given to the reflection of others (if you believe firmly in the value of pluralism and then give the other the same dignity that you claim for yourself), in this case follows a totally sterile and useless debate, because so much everything has already been decided at the Nazarene. We do not know what the text will then have to be reasoned about. We have arrived in this Chamber not having given the rapporteur the mandate to carry out his task, precisely because it had to be done otherwise in order to enhance the value of speed, which Marinetti considered a fundamental value not only of politics, but of a civilization that then took place in the 20 years. We, in order to emphasize this speed, in fact, have exonerated, for the umpteenth time, the Parliament of its function, because the function of a democratically elected Parliament is to give representation to all the voices present in the society of which that Parliament is the body that must bring out the will of a people. However, this Parliament is now worthless, and I am sorry to say that because when I entered here I thought I was really a pygmy compared to the many giants there were. This Parliament has been marred by presidencies of the Republic who have not at all tried to oppose a dynamism, present also in other pseudo-democracies, which leads more and more to a centralization of functions, decisions and therefore power. I read, because I do not remember them by heart, words spoken a few days ago in this House: "You see, several times the Presidency of the Republic has drawn the attention of the Italian politics on the abuse of decree-laws, on the substantial ambiguity and not full political correctness of the omnibus bill, on the abuse of trust votes and also, I add, on the formation of sometimes delegated laws with very broad links. If all this leads back to the centralization of decisions in the Council of Ministers and then - because that is what is emerging - within the Council of Ministers itself, collegial decisions are changed in substance by decisions taken in a monocratic way by other parties, I believe there is a problem of democratic governance that needs to be addressed and deployed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These words were spoken not by an eversor, but by a colleague of the Democratic Party, Senator Mucchetti, who then, when there was the opportunity to vote on a calendar that would include his initial request to bring the President of the Council Renzi to the Chamber to report on the famous norm and the famous hand, did not even have the chance, and perhaps not the courage, to vote because he did not participate in the vote. There was also a siege of intimidation, more or less metaphorical, that another colleague, exactly Senator Tonini, addressed to him, reminding him that what he had just said were words that only Senator Mucchetti committed but not the Democratic Party. There is, it is so, logically and ethically, it can only be so, but this can only happen because we accept this basic hypocrisy, in order to win the elections, in order to have the numbers that allow in this House and in the House to be decisive because they are majorists, we accept the logic of intriguing anyone to have an extra vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This is a logic of democracy that is pointing down, not upwards, because democracy can only be participation, integration, inclusion, confrontation and instead not intimidation, threat, retaliation! If that is true, it is also true that we should work on other reforms. Today I read that the prosecutor of the Republic of Pignatone, who in Rome began to clean up (see Mafia Capital scandal), stated that the real emergency that the country has to face, but that this political class is well guarded from taking into consideration, is the emergency justice. In fact, depending on the new measures and the new rules that will be adopted, the possibilities for white collars to be pursued will be increasingly ridiculous and grotesque. Why? For a precise political choice. I have been taught that at criminal level we must distinguish crimes against the person, crimes against property and crimes against public administration, against what is the common good, the State, what belongs to all; what, in a mature democracy, one should be convinced to belong, a community that promotes civilization, international cooperation and certainly not marches that demonstrate shortsightedness and closure. Well, if we give space, through a wise direction of the mass media - which then become means of mass deviation - especially to crimes against the person (which are not lacking, and unfortunately will never be lacking in human civilizations), perhaps we produce a sort of devaluation of even more serious crimes, those, precisely, against public administration. In fact, defrauding the State and therefore subtracting services from one who by birth will not be able to study because he does not have the family that allows him, subtracting resources from a sick person, from an integrated fund, from a retired person, means making an absolutely undemocratic choice, because spoiled by a classism. I am referring to the classism that characterizes this partycracy, the one for which those who are co-opted, denying their preferences, because they belong to genos, because they are still in the circle, they will be able to do it; those who do not belong to the magic circle, to the world above (citing Buzzi and Carminati), those who do not belong to that world will have to continue to be perpetually in the world below. Well, I believe that politics must also promote dreaming skills; politics must foresee, prevent and prepare and not only deal with emergencies. You, however, have taught us that with emergencies you earn, there are formidable profits. I listened a few days ago again to those famous telephone interceptions, according to which we learned that the extra-Community emergency allows us to earn more than with drug trafficking. Why are these phenomena not eradicated at the root by a democratic fabric? Because some people make money because of these filthy things, because of these craps. Why don't we really invest in school, education, culture? Why do we not promote a policy of real, concrete and immediately tangible actions? Another title of today's press of these minutes is the speech that our President-in-Office of the Council is making in Europe. What is Matteo Renzi dreaming of? Changed direction, now the facts. Explain to me how to change direction in the absence of facts. I would like to be able to record facts, because politics must have intellectual honesty, and therefore also moral honesty, to produce facts and to educate with facts and not so much in words. In words, all the electoral laws can be good, if they allow to go to rule, but governing does not mean to administer and less than it means to make a market efficient, because there is a nice difference between market and state. Unfortunately, in recent decades in Italy, as in other parts of the so-called advanced world, the market has metabolized the state and we citizens have been considered alone and only as consumers. Well, I think that even those who do not consume have their moral and political dignity and we all have to keep that in mind. Therefore, in conclusion, such an electoral law denies not only preferences, but also the principle of responsibility alongside preferences, because if you give preference and then in any case you do not have the opportunity to intervene in any other way, this preference is an artifice by which you make the elector believe that you can exercise your right of choice, but in reality it is simply a perverse mechanism whereby, with hypocrisy, you make people believe that you can choose, when in fact the choices have already been made. Then we return to a system of preferences accompanied by a mechanism that rewards the deserving and punishes those who are dirty with immorality. Look, it is serious and indeed very serious that by the choice of the Italian Parliament, because this has happened through a parliamentary vote, we continue to guarantee the parliamentary allowance to Francantonio Genovese, Member of the PD arrested, convicted and, by choice of the majority in the House in which he was elected, still paid with the money of the Italians, when we then hear of cases of malasanity, when we do not find the money to comply with requests coming from Europe (because Europe also asks us to guarantee all European citizens an income of dignity, we do it everywhere except in Italy because perhaps from that point of view we are not European). Let us stop insisting, as if it were a positive myth, on the need for a majority award. I remember that those who represented at least the old PCI with scandal were talking about the so-called fraud law and that law guaranteed, to those who obtained at least 50% plus one of the votes, the extra seats so as not to have problems of presence in the Chamber, but the votes won in the elections were still the absolute majority. This was because there was respect for the principle of representation. Democracy is pluralism, it is the enhancement of differences and diversity. You, on the occasion of the unfortunate events in France, have theorized the need to promote integration, but integration as it is promoted if not precisely by listening and giving value to those who are different from us and perhaps through a comparison from which we can come out changed from the other and vice versa? [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]] On the other hand, if you impose yourself in an absolutely monocratic and autocratic way, you obviously have no esteem, no respect for the other and these are forms of ethnocentrism that only a racist thought can accept. You, let me tell you, in many cases you have an individual ego, a social ego, a cultural ego that closes you to the possibility of confronting each other. Really have the courage, which is combined with the humility to amaze you, to marvel at otherness: there is the possibility of learning so much even listening, there is the possibility of learning so much even giving word to others. These classrooms must be able to return to being classrooms in which they debate with mutual listening and with mutual benefit. A democracy is such only if it succeeds in growing thanks to the other; instead, you make the other hate it and I would not want all this to be antechamber to anything else that we at least of the Movement try to fight in all forms, but that maybe someone, perhaps collateral to some deviant secret service or friend of some unofficial Masonic loggia, tries instead to pursue. In fact, what you are doing is precisely those political designs that a certain project of democratic rebirth wanted for our country. I, however, was born in democracy and in my hometown the most important roads were dedicated to the memory of partisan brigades, so I hope and believe that we can have a new war of resistance, so that those values of solidarity and democratic coexistence are defended to the last. Of course, I am referring to a war of ideas, a war of values, a war in which you are not used because your wars are those of false primaries, those of secret vows not allowed, because, precisely in the exaltation of the hypocrisy in which you are champions, if you vote with obvious vote you get a result, if you vote with secret vote if you get another one, because you are champions of moral disassociation before even intellectual. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u12	Senator Augello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the New Right Centre has worked extensively and responsibly to improve this bill, both in the Chamber, in the Commission and then in the Chamber, and here in the Senate, partly because it was born not exactly with stakes very balanced from the point of view of the efficiency of the system and the constitutionality of the rules. We had observed this from the start and we can say, even with a bit of pride, that all in all the final product that appears to be emerging and that will be discussed in the next few hours by this House is much more like the original proposal that we had made here in the Senate than the one that had been made by the Government in the House; therefore, from this point of view, we think we have made an important contribution. However, in this debate, the subject on which I would like to focus above all is not so much the path we have already taken, but what remains to be done in this House (and it is not little) to improve the law, on the one hand, and to leave definitively behind all doubts, perhaps even encouraged by some miscommunication that has been made in recent weeks and months, that this law is a kind of Trojan horse and that there is no real intention, on the part of not only the majority but the whole of the forces involved in the constitutional reform plan, to really get to the end of that path, because inside this Trojan horse you would not well know what trick to blow up constitutional reforms and run to the vote. Why should we touch this issue and leave it behind, in the next few hours, with a sense of responsibility but also with a credibility of the instruments we put in place to say that these doubts are really behind us? The answer I think is very simple and, in these hours, it is perhaps made even more urgent by the great international crisis that is unfortunately materializing around the return of the terrorist challenge. The New Right Center gave birth to this majority for a simple reason. The reason was that we were - and are - going through one of the most serious crises in politics; a crisis that has invested and overwhelmed the credibility of Parliament itself; a crisis that has removed millions of citizens from politics who no longer participate in the vote; a crisis of institutions that has also been a bit moral from this point of view. At the same time, we are experiencing an economic crisis without any precedent for its gravity, and today we can say that unfortunately it ends up seeing in the background, with the return of terrorism, also a very serious international crisis. All these elements should have recommended - and they still recommend today - a great sense of responsibility, but not in the sense of those responsible, of which we remember, of the last parliamentary term, but of the assumption of that political and historical responsibility that must be faced with the great challenges and that, to some extent, is part of that word, a bit old fashioned, which is called a sense of the State, which should induce us - and it has led us to this choice from the point of view of government collaboration - to choose the priority that counts. The priority that counts at this time is to defend from these crisis factors, all without precedent for their gravity, the very identity of our nation and the sense of the state that still exists - thank God - in our national community. Reforms, in the effort of credibility that the institutions must support, are, from this point of view, central. On the other hand, I do not believe - and it has been argued on the eve of the debate on constitutional reform - that our position in Europe changes by a comma if we adopt a double-shift system or a single-shift system or a bicameral system, in the sense that I fear that this does not matter to anyone. It changes a lot, in our relationship with the citizens, if we show up to a expectation of change that is not only in the sense of simplification, nor in the sense of savings, another topic used - alas - very out of date, based on the idea that, if it is a single Chamber to decide, we have saved only a few million euros a year. The basic theme is to restore efficiency, credibility and representation. The logic of representation is another of the elements entered into a halo of doubt in the perception of our electorate. Our electorate does not think that the rules we have approved so far allow it to have some vague control over the elected, obviously political control in issuing an electoral delegation. These are the questions to which we must respond. It is clear that for the New Right Centre, the very ground of reform was one of the fundamental reasons for making the choice not to return to the polls and not to recreate a Parliament more or less unstable, more or less inefficient, more or less incapable of building majorities. Now, asking me if this really was the stakes, let me point out some excesses of communication and machismo. Machism has nothing to do with either constitutional reforms or electoral reforms, but it is always a problem that must be brought back to over-exploiting personalities. A certain type of language and a certain kind of haste in timing (with nighttimes and even early-Luccan daytimes in this House) have not, as a whole, helped to get out of this House a message that went in the direction that I tried to describe in this part of my speech. This does not mean, however, that we must give an answer and we must give it even more today, at this historic moment, as is emerging from the point of view of the international crisis that is unfolding around us. Therefore, we must perhaps recover a tone of greater concreteness and seriousness also in our internal debate. Certainly, going on the concrete, the New Right Center still revisits some problems in this bill. Meanwhile, there is the issue of representation: the question of preferences continues to remain in our idea a strong element of re-involvement of the electorate, after all that has happened. Let us not forget that participation in the vote has now fallen, in all types of competition, to quite worrying levels. Nor is it said that it is enough to allow the citizen to choose his representative, because moreover - as we know well - this participation has also fallen where there were preferences (and I am thinking of the last regional elections). For sure, though, if we go out and tell that the new system that we have created in substance is exhausted in the fact that we block the lists in a different way, that is only with the capilists, instead of with the Porcellum system, I have the feeling that the credibility of the entire operation will come out strongly weakened. Too subtle and difficult for the citizen to understand is the question that, in this case, the blocked leader would be more identifiable than it was with Porcellum: the bottom line is that the more decision we give back to the citizens and the more credible is the attempt to reform that we are pursuing. The second element concerns some distortions of the system which would, in fact, make the election of a large number of Members random because of the so-called pinball effect that this rule carries with it: there is a real risk that, in the end, even someone who has taken lower percentages than a colleague who is in the same party may be elected. From this point of view too, there are corrective elements to be included (we discussed them in the Commission, where we had tabled some amendments that we will bring back to the attention of the House). We note that the Government has made a commitment - indeed, if it had been taken up before in the Commission, perhaps it would have greatly simplified our lives - to entrust an amendment to the famous transitional rule, which was also mentioned by Mr Boschi in this House. This is a politically very important element, which becomes the attestation of our will to reform both the constitutional reform and the electoral law in a harmonious and organic way, that is to say to link the entry into force of the electoral law to a date when it is plausible that the path of constitutional reform is completed. If these elements are brought back into an amending framework consistent with these principles and effective from the constitutional and operational point of view, I think we can all say that we have given not "the answer" but one of the answers expected by the country at this time. Above all, we in the New Right Centre will be able to find an important confirmation of the fact that we have made the right choice: to take a path of reforms capable of restoring to the voters a margin of sovereignty which, to some extent, has been taken away from them in recent years. It is clear that, if this is not the case and if we are going to face a situation that is unclear and unclear or different from the commitments made here too, we will be able to draw the consequences from it in this House, because we have our amendments ready to achieve, in any case, the results I have tried to describe in my speech. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u14	We greet the students and teachers of the Institute including Alberto Manzi in Rome, who are following the Senate's work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tocci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u16	Mr President, Senators, in my opinion, Italicum has aged before it was born: it is being approved by inertia, without resolving the crisis of confidence between politicians and citizens, and indeed the risk of exacerbating it. The crisis began almost ten years ago with the Porcellum, which broke the relationship between the elected and the electorate, opening the way to the delegitimization of the caste. It was hoped to return the sceptre to the voters, and instead it will continue with the ancien régime. The Delrio law assigns to the political class the election of councilors of the Province and the Metropolitan City and the same method of election of second degree will be applied to the nomination of senators, according to the Boschi law. With regard to most of the Members of the Italicum, the power to appoint by the party leaders is confirmed. In the new version, we want to mitigate the Porcellum effect, adding a quota of elected with preferences that would, however, concern only the first two parties. All corruptive phenomena, last and most severely the Roman case, are characterized by the furious struggle of preferences between party currents. I doubt it would be useful to re-introduce them into national electoral law right now. The second Italicum brings together the two most discredited mechanisms: preferences and nominations. The relationship between the elected and the electorate, therefore, can only get worse. In addition, Parliament and the Government obtain a different electoral legitimacy, very strong for the Head of the Executive, chosen directly by the people, and very weak for the parliamentarians, still largely appointed. In this way, the subdiction of the legislative power to the executive power is accentuated, already put into practice with the abuse of the urgent delegation, and even projected in the future with the constitutional revision. On the other hand, it is not even considered the instrument that has always been well represented in the Italian experience. I am referring to the single college which creates a direct relationship between citizens and parliamentarians. I was elected with the Mattarellum in the college of Monteverde in Rome and took the habit of taking a walk in the neighborhood once a week. I received from the voters many reports, proposals and criticisms that gave me the pulse of the situation. In the same way the word was spread in the neighborhood that you could meet on the street the congressman. In different forms, almost all parliamentarians then maintained that bond which was then severed from the Porcellum. The single college, of course, is not the panacea of all evils, but it mitigates the defects of the other systems. Compared to the list of nominees, it eliminates the problem, pointed out by the Court, of a lack of recognition of the elected one; indeed, a direct relationship is established that allows the elector to control not only at the time of the vote, but also during the parliamentary activity. With respect to preferences, however, the territorial delimitation of the small college breaks the long chains that hold together party currents and interest groups. An important innovation could even be introduced today: the two-year college with the candidacy of a woman and a man, so as to elect a Parliament in full gender equality. The college, above all, gives power and autonomy to parliamentarians. The bond with voters enlivens the freedom of the mandate and the representation of the nation, in accordance with the principles of Article 67 of the Constitution. On this basis, therefore, Parliament's strength would be rebalanced with the Government. On the other hand, it is enough to think of the American Senate, which manages to act as a counterweight to the President precisely because it is composed of political personalities well rooted in the reality of that great country. Finally, the merit of the college is also flexibility, which allows its application to the most diverse electoral systems, as demonstrated by the history of Italian legislation in this area. He accompanied himself to the majority system in Mattarellum and was deleted precisely because it was a good law; it could be restored by correcting some minor defects, as we propose with an amendment that I signed together with Senator Chiti and other colleagues. The college was also used in the past in a pure proportional system, with the old law for the Provinces, and even in a mixed system in the first Republic, with the old Senate electoral law. With this, in fact, the candidate who exceeded the 65 percent threshold was directly elected, while below he participated in the division of seats with proportional method. The rule arose from a famous Dossetti-Togliatti amendment, which modified the initial proposal of Minister Mario Scelba, presented in December 1947, with the threshold set at 50%. This was a simple model, because it entrusted the citizen with the possibility not only of directly electing the senator, but also of contributing with his vote to decide which electoral system should be applied. In fact, if a party exceeded the absolute majority, the college functioned as a majority; if no party could clearly prevail over the others, it obtained purely proportional representation. I wonder what would have happened if the original proposal had been approved. The different possibilities of republican history are contained in that threshold difference, between 65 percent and 50 percent. He forgot the bill of 1947 because then the image of the Minister remained tied to the law of 1953, called "swind law," only because it gave a majority prize to the party that exceeded the absolute majority: a solution that today would appear much more prudent than Italicum. I must confess: as a young man I considered He chooses an authoritarian politician, but today I would appear to be a sincere democrat. I have tabled an amendment to the Commission to consider the proposal of 1947, which - in my opinion - still remains the best electoral law, partly because it allocates the majority share only when it corresponds to a prevailing - clearly prevalent - orientation in the electorate. And this is perhaps its most important value, because an electoral law can help governability, increasing the strength of the first party, but it must not artificially impose it with too strong majority prizes, which distort representation. Against this imbalance the Constitutional Court used harsh words in the famous ruling against Porcellum, but good political sense should be enough to avoid excesses. A simple truth has been forgotten: to govern the country, especially to implement difficult reforms, we need the popular consensus, which is like the courage of Don Abbondio: those who do not have it, cannot give it exclusively by using the artifices of electoral laws. If you exaggerate with majority prizes that increase parliamentary representation by about 50%, governments are formed by force, which fail to make a real change, but get the result of removing additional electoral quotas from the seats. It has already happened in part in the second Republic and now the phenomenon seems to be accentuating. Instead of reflecting on the loss of representation, there is a growing effort to repeat: the lower the votes of the citizens and the higher the majority prizes to the parties. Majority governments are at risk of being formed within minority democracies. The results of the last regional elections give an alarming measure of this paradox. There is, therefore, a real need for a change of direction. We need a different electoral law from both Porcellum and Italicum, to give voters the chance to face the elected. We need an electoral system that increases the number of citizens who vote, because they feel they can count on democratic competition on the government of the country. Finally, Mr President, allow me to say a few words in order to put on record at least my dismay at the painful negotiation that has taken place between the Government and certain opposition groups on the date of entry into force of the electoral law. This is an issue which should not be the subject of haggling: once the electoral law has been passed, one should immediately go to vote. This parliamentary term should be completed, for obvious constitutional and political reasons. When the Constitutional Court rejected the Porcellum, it made it clear that the mandate of this Parliament is closely linked to the adoption of the electoral law. Moreover, the government proceeds without a clear mandate of the citizens: the spurious alliance between the right and the left is legitimate only exceptionally and for a defined time, but not for the entire legislature. A good reform cannot result from circumvention of these constitutional and political principles. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Cervellini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u17	Senator Marton is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u18	Mr President, I will try to take up your invitation to look at this electoral law as a whole. At present we have a Parliament divided into two equal rooms and an electoral law that allows parties to choose their own men, to come here to Parliament to obey a government. So, I wonder, what is the value of the electoral law? It should be to be able to choose the best minds in Italy, in order to better govern the country. What happens at the moment? It happens that friends of friends are elected. So what do we do? Since we are unable to govern the country, we abolish the most difficult part of Parliament - so the Senate - because it has an electoral law that still allows the citizen to choose the representative, although on blocked lists - for God's sake - but in part allows it. So, we take it off because it's what creates instability. And what do we do? We do this on the pretext of governability, which we confuse with stability of government. I think Senator Martelli will explain the concept. I'm just watching what's going on. We want to amend an electoral law which, at present, could be replaced by a draw. Why don't we have a nice draw? We get the same (equal) result, because the government decides and the majorities of the moment support the government. The general debate that is taking place in this House at the moment between more or less 50 people - I repeat: more or less 50 people - is symptomatic of what is happening. We are talking here about nothing, so much so that we already know the result that we want to achieve. The discussion only serves to dilate or narrow down the time to reach an agreement that is actually getting under the table. So let us say this: we are extending the general discussion - I believe that there are a hundred members - for what? Because it is likely that an agreement has not yet been reached between the two parties that are ruling. What's the end? Self-esteem and return to the next elections with the same identical majority and the same type of government. Why do we not have the courage to tell the citizens? Why not tell the citizens that we are taking away their voting rights? Or - at best - we deceive them by saying: be careful, we will give the opportunity to vote exclusively for one House, while you will vote the other in the secondary way. But what does that mean in the back way? It means that we will put those whom we have elected among the mayors, who will thus have to do the double job. Do you think this is a way to carry on a nation? But are you happy to work this way? Senator Tocci, I think, has best expressed what's happening and what's gonna happen. I really ask for an effort and a step of dignity, especially to those who, intelligently, I think are absent, because they have well understood what the current situation is: the present uselessness of the role of parliamentarians and the futility that will be even greater with the next elections. If it's okay for you to be useless today and be more useless tomorrow, let's continue on this slope. On the contrary, we have the possibility - or, better, we would have the opportunity - to change things, if only we had this step of dignity and the courage to say things as they are: the government and the Prime Minister are turning into the mayor of the Italians. Let's say: we want to make him, instead of a legislator, an executor - for heaven's sake - a mayor with full powers and a majority of slaves - you will forgive me the term - who votes for his measures. Not even in City Councils does this happen. I ask you for the effort not to allow this to happen. I ask you to return to being lawmakers and to give the government the role it has, that is, as the performer of our mandate. The government has - yes - legislative power, but it must use it sparingly. So let us go back to lawmakers and let us not allow this electoral bill to come to fruition. The electoral law must allow the citizen to choose his representative. We are also delegitimizing the citizen. I'm sorry, but why would the citizen come and vote for us? Why? What advantage does a citizen have to go to the polls now and in the future? It has no advantage because, once elected people (elected among the nominations of a few few people), they will do the good and bad time and will no longer make an account to anyone. Then I seriously invite you to reflect on these words. I urge you not to vote on this electoral law and rebel against it. Take this step of dignity, please. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cervellini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u19	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u20	Mr President, the debate on the reform of the electoral system has accompanied the last thirty years of the country's history, from the end of the first Republic and the political Slavic of 1992 to the recent judgment of the Constitutional Court on the 2005 electoral law. It was a debate between proponents of proportional representation and representative democracy and supporters of a majority system for decisive democracy, from the referendum condemning the system of preferences (expression of a fixed and blocked democracy) to the attempt to balance a majority system with single-member colleges, but corrected by the proportional share of the Mattarella law, with which the birth of the second Republic, now oriented towards a phase of mature democracy, of alternation between bipolar, if not biparty, competitive and antagonistic systems. The reform of the electoral system meets today, indissolubly, with a broader reform process in our country, of modernization and institutional and political strengthening. The proposed electoral law comes out of the discussion in the Senate Constitutional Affairs Committee improved thanks to the amendments tabled by President Finocchiaro, with the introduction of a barrier threshold, which avoids excessive fragmentation, while ensuring the right political representation in Parliament; with gender alternation and with a reinforced quorum for the award of the majority prize, to protect governance and stability. Small and medium-sized colleges will also allow the candidate's recognition in the eyes of the electorate and strengthen the electoral bond of political representation. This is an important step in the context of reforms that, together with a redefined institutional structure and a new political architecture, redefine the quality of democracy in our country and outline the framework within which to exercise the action of a renewed policy, able to direct phenomena and face the many challenges of an increasingly complex political and economic world in its dynamics and without supranational borders. In fact, electoral systems are not simply the set of rules governing the transformation of preferences into votes and votes into seats. Election systems are the key that allows democratic regimes to maintain the link between voters and rulers, between participatory citizenship and the accountability and verification of the elected and their mandate choices. The results of the 2013 general elections also gave us other elements of reflection, including the need to overcome a system of electoral political coalitions and post-voting political alliances, in order to extend and modify parliamentary majorities on not more bipolar but much more complex lines. Without a doubt, and even in a context of post-democracy, democracy of public opinion's domination, between neo-populisms and worrying abstentions, alongside the electoral systems, it is political and party systems that still play a decisive role in defining the quality of democracy that is being built. The political and party system is, in fact, still that link of conjunction, mediation and democratic reworking of the electorate's demands and sentiments, which are transformed into proposals for action, into a programmatic vision and a government. For this reason it is indispensable, in a process of modernising democracy, to proceed to renew and transform also the role and quality of the function played by political parties, instrument of dialogue and confrontation, of selection of the ruling classes of the country, factor of evaluation of the very degree of democracy in the system of representation, between self-referential oligarchical pushes, exchange of cliential votes and need to strengthen, instead, the bond of mutual fidelity between elected citizen and elected representative, in the territories as in Parliament. Yesterday's and recent scandals talk too often about membership partnerships: an expression of the opposite of what an open society should be, paradoxical pathology, here almost normal; a no longer ideological membership of mass parties, no longer of class, but of client networks, symptoms of a disease that, in turn, has fueled other pathologies. I am referring to the pathology of the myth of public opinion in the streets, the myth of a people who want to be a mere sum of individuals who, without mediation, exercises their sovereignty with spokesmen driven by contempt for all, for the institutions they should govern; contempt for the values that underpin democracy, such as respect for the freedom of expression of others. The risk is that of the dictatorship of a populism, without a proactive vision of an immaterial society that does not decide but prevents, breaking precisely that bond of intimate trust in others on which the same civil coexistence is based. This is also why a new electoral law is urgently needed to restore credibility and confidence in politics, in a more efficient state able to develop useful responses to citizens and within a reasonable time; to gain consensus even before votes or preferences. It is necessary to promote structural reforms in order to combat not only the continuing economic crisis, but also the democratic, social and moral decline; to return to growth and regain confidence in our democracy; to return to being a country that builds its own future, institutional and civil, fairer and democratic. It is time to mark a boundary between before and after, for a policy that redefines its own history, for a mature democracy that has the strength to change and to withstand the challenges of an increasingly complex system of power relations, in Europe and in the world, between new centres of government and new and distant suburbs of democratic legitimacy. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u21	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to examine a legal text from the House, the so-called Italicum, to which the amendments tabled by the President of the Commission have been added to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which substantially modify the text, so that it can be renamed - as has been done - Italicum 2. In my speech, I will refer to the text of Italicum 2, although some considerations apply in any case. As we know, the requirements of governability and representativeness must be met in the electoral law. In the text of Italicum, both 1 and 2, we can surely guarantee the first aspect, the governability, and also in a shared way. The award of an appropriate majority prize will enable us to have a party and a government, an expression of that party, which will hopefully rule for a full legislature and can, at the end of this, be more easily judged by the voters. Such a government would not have any alibi linked to the inevitable need for the coalition's compactness or - better to say - the internal compromises necessary to carry out the coalition. In addition, it is a system that will promote the alternation of governments between parties, which - in my humble opinion - represents a real protection for democracy. In fact, it is knowledge, or even the only fear that in the next legislature will be replaced, and will not be part of a coalition government, to represent an incentive to give the best for our rulers, reducing the risk of corruption and bad government. In a historical period in which popular participation in political life fads, although, fortunately, not attention to politics, it is important to avoid confusion of deployments with coalition governments and broad understandings, where political identities are confused, or Governments too weak because they are dependent on smaller majorities. In this last case the risks of early elections grow and instability can cause profound damage to the country. In short, a majority award guarantees the stability and governability necessary for the country. With regard to the second aspect, representativeness, which I mean as the possibility of representing in Parliament the different political visions present in the country, it must be said that this must be promoted as much as possible, especially if it does not in any way collide with governance. We do not understand, therefore, the ratio of the introduction of an entry barrier to Parliament, also considering that of course the quorum to participate in the allocation of seats will be high. In fact, with 340 seats out of 618 already assigned to the majority party, only 278 would remain to be shared among all others, and this will inevitably raise the quorum of entry. It seems to me, therefore, unnecessarily vexatory to introduce an explicit barrier, whether it be reduced to 3% of the valid votes. The real painful notes on this text, however, are found in the part relating to the identification of the elected one by the voters. I think it is important that there is a close link between the chosen and the territory of which it belongs. In fact, we are all too often witnessing nominations, even in the case of non-parliamentary elections, of people who are out of touch with local realities, but who claim to be able to represent them. In this sense, it is unacceptable to apply in as many as ten colleges, as provided for in this text. Among other things, in addition to what has already been said, this multi-candidability will create real king makers, who will decide where to accept the seat and where instead to leave the place to the first of the unelected. This can create paradoxical situations. It is incomprehensible, because a multi-elected person can bring his partner into Parliament, perhaps only as a member of his own current within his party, and this choice perhaps despite the few preferences obtained by the candidate he favored, and perhaps leaving out a member of his own party with more preference, and therefore with greater support from the citizens, but less close to him politically, even within his own party. It is a situation that confuses the citizens and increases precisely the disaffection to participation that worries so many, and I hope everyone. A similar situation refers to preferences, which in this case are mortified as a residual aspect. It is decided, in fact, to proceed with the division of Italy into 100 colleges, where the leaders of the parties will be elected first and then, in the case of others elected on the same list, the candidates with the greatest number of preferences. If the distribution of seats was evenly distributed among the 100 colleges, it could be deduced that each college will elect an average of 6,18 Members; therefore, an average college will elect six Members. It is very likely that the list that received the majority prize will elect three or four Members: therefore a leader and two or three elected with preferences. The other parties will, on the other hand, clearly elect the only leader or, in the case of a strong local presence, maybe even a second elected, therefore with preferences. In total, it can be estimated that we are talking about no less than 50 percent elected of the capilists (probably far more) and, to be optimistic, up to a maximum of 50 percent elected with preferences. Of course, it is a decided improvement over 100% of the elected parties chosen, as it was done with the Porcellum that we find now, but surely more could be done. I hope, however, that the close relationship between the leader and symbol that we will find in the card - as it has been explained - will stimulate the parties to present the most valid candidatures possible, thus carrying out a selection of the political class that brings to Parliament who better can represent the citizens, and that it also brings the application of democratic and meritocratic methods in the selection to be proposed in the list of candidates. This would, in a sense, be the application of Article 49 of the Constitution, where the democratic method of party participation in political life is required. I am afraid, however, that these wishes will remain a dead letter if the planned mechanism is maintained. However, I am not unaware - it is clear - that there is always the reverse of the coin, and we know well how the system of preferences can lead to the vote of exchange in a clientele relationship between the elected and their voters. But this can only happen technically if the vote is recognizable. In the past - I am referring to a few decades ago, in the so-called first Republic - the possibility of indicating a long list of preferences with numbers corresponding to the candidates led, with possible combinations between the numbers, to the recognizability of the vote and, in fact, to the non-secretity of the same. So, the clientele vote was obvious and guaranteed. In the present case, double preference, among other things of different gender, effectively cancels this possibility and disables this perverse mechanism. Ultimately, I think it would be more appropriate and necessary for voters to be left with the choice of the best candidate within a list of candidates. I do not think, therefore, that the multi-candidability in ten colleges and the problem of preferences, which are not effective and - as I have already said - used in a residual way, are matters of little account, because they can or may not favour the disaffection of the ballot box by citizens, who once again are deprived of the possibility of being able to choose their elected representative. The distance of citizens from participation in the vote, the increase in abstentionism, the distance of citizens from the ballot box is a real risk to Italian democracy and on these points we must intervene with corrective measures. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is registered to speak Senator Corsini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u23	Mr President, I will start with some general considerations, because the electoral law is undoubtedly a fundamental and indispensable instrument for democratic life, and not only because it plays an indispensable role as a regulator of political will, but also because it refers to constitutionally defined and enshrined rights and guarantees. Well, from this very point of view, it commits everyone's consciences and responsibilities. I insist above all on the dimension of conscience because it refers to the sphere of freedom, especially considering that electoral law is a matter of exquisite parliamentary prerogative. An invasive presence of the Government reduces, in fact, the parliamentary assemblies - even more so in this case - to organs of acclamation for majorities and of pure testimony for minorities, in the name of a "directist" decision-making aimed at skipping institutional mediations and, to some extent, introducing a stumbling block, a contradiction in the free development of the parliamentary democratic dialectic. With regard to the need to have a new electoral law, after the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is an unavoidable reference for us, we cannot judge that the changes that have taken place are positive compared to the text adopted at first reading in the House, especially in the political debate. In fact, it remains the vulnus of an electoral law transferred to the Chamber without proper debate, debate and decision taken in the Commission, a vulnus which I consider to be very serious, especially in relation to the requirement which I referred to earlier, namely the parliamentary nature of electoral laws. The threshold has been raised which avoids the use of ballots; the entry thresholds have been uniformed and lowered to 3%, thus guaranteeing representation quotas for the different political formations. Finally, an indication of preferences has been included in order to give voters the option of choosing their representatives. There is clearly a completely unresolved tension here, because the vote of preference not only refers to very turbulent events of Italian public and parliamentary life (beyond the referendum, I think of Tangentopoli, as well as to recent cases involving the Municipality of Rome and, alas, entire Regions and territories of our country), but implies the risk of a custom of exchange, of a vote that introduces and conveys reasons and reasons that are not properly noble. That is why - and I think the arguments put forward by Senator Tocci are taken for granted - my personal preference is for the uninomial college. I realize that there is a confrontation going on, that the electoral laws must be the result of mediation between the different political formations, but we take note of the obtorto neck of the imposition that comes from the friends of Forza Italia. The uninomial college evokes a choice of responsibility on the part of the parties, evokes the idea of a higher degree of contestability of the seat. And the argument, which has also been put forward, that this electoral law combines the virtues of the single system and the system with a vote of preference because, in reality, the leader who will be appointed has a privilege condition in the context of a strangled and unequal competition. Therefore, the fundamental point to which the new legislation will have to adhere above all is to "return" completely "the scepter to the prince," that is to say to the electoral citizen, to quote the title of a book by a scholar and parliamentary exponent who, for a long time, has dedicated himself to this matter, which is Gianfranco Pasquino, who in turn recalls the title of a well-known essay published in the aftermath of the Liberation. From this point of view, I believe that we cannot accept a procedure which provides for the appointment of blocked capilists, thus setting up a Parliament in which the nominees would represent a very large number and in which the possibility of electing their representatives with preference would, in fact, be left exclusively to the party that won the majority prize. A detailed analysis that I find convincing, supported by entirely plausible reasons of my colleague Fornaro, offers us proof of what I claim: over 60 percent of nominations. From this point of view, I believe that proposing a mix of 25 and 75 can be corrected and does not mean entering into an irresolvable contradiction, because the right of parties to have a reasonable number of "specialised" representatives must be recognised. I believe that the story we have experienced with the nominated Members has paradoxically been a missed opportunity: precisely because we could proceed by appointment, we could have chosen'specialised' Members. I also believe that those party leaders and leaders who, even in Parliament, have eminent responsibilities, have lost their relations with their own territory must be reasonably protected. The problem lies, precisely, in the reasonableness of the proportion, without considering that in the light of the current constitutional reform the Senate will be composed exclusively of elected second degree. Here are the reasons that confirm the rightness of the battle that, with some friends and colleagues from my group and other groups, we conducted when we discussed the criteria of the composition of the Senate. Here, however, we will also find third-degree nominations in relation to the presence of lists at the regional elections. One of the fundamental themes of that battle was, in fact, the need to counter the combined arrangement of representatives appointed to the Senate and an eminently majority law. Secondly, the prediction of multi-candidate capilists would institutionalise a practice that exonerates the voter of the actual control of his vote with obvious risks of unconstitutionality. There is also a clear contradiction to be overcome. At a time when we are called to vote on an electoral law applicable to a single Chamber, being still in force a system that provides for a symmetrical and equal bicameralism, there would be an unsustainable situation both from the constitutional point of view (as, moreover, has been authoritatively observed by several parties in that part of the Commission's activities that took place), and political, as we would be in the presence of two contradictory systems: proportional to the Senate and majoritarian, with large quotas blocked, to the Chamber; systems, moreover, which provide for separate electoral bodies. A safeguard clause should therefore be provided for in order to overcome this incongruity with a view to effective governance, which is consistent with the mandate underlying the government programme. Here, however, a clarification is needed: if we were to define a suitable chronological reference it could only be that of 1 January 2018, in accordance with the commitments that President Renzi assumed to bring the legislature to its natural completion; more correctly and more coherently, the reference that must actually be taken is not so chronological, but refers to the completion of the constitutional review process, putting an end to the contradiction previously pointed out. The last point concerns the issue of the coalition or list award, namely the question of the possibility of appearance which I believe should be supported for a number of reasons. First of all, the presence of low entry thresholds determines a very high degree of dusting of oppositions and therefore the risk of the loss of the physiology of alternation, a rule of "democratic hygiene" to mention Pietro Scoppola, that democratic rule of physiological competition that allows the alternation, which constitutes the basic guarantee, the substance of a "competitive" democracy, to mention the formula of a scholar of the standing of Chantal Muffe, of that "discord" as a rule of democracy of which Bobbio spoke, of that controversial democracy which is in the sign of the tradition and debate of democratic political cultures. There's a second argument. You support the prize on the list because you want to establish a bipartite competition. In fact, we will no longer have bipartitism or bipolarism. Instead of going to the third Republic, we would return to the first, with a sort of staticity and systemic immobility: a system blocked with consequent damnatio gubernandi and convent to exclusion, that is exactly the same conditions of the first Republic, with a party "unique", a party "takes all" or better - I would say after the consultations at the primary in Liguria - a party "takes all", a party of "collect" centrist rather than central, indeed central precisely because centrist; a party of the Nation without actual contenders, without possibility of alternation with an alternating party of the Nation and together a Right Lepenist, vocal and demagogic movements and a tendentially radical Left. This is the presumable result of the competition that rewards a single list. I know the objections. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you've far exceeded time, you should finish. Mr Corsini (PD). I'm entitled to 20 minutes. If we return to the mechanism of the coalition - this is the assessment of some - we give rise to insincere and unfaithful coalitions, to a sort of irresponsible consociativism. It is true, but on the other hand the opposite risk is an osmotic, molecular transformationism, a transformation of the post which reproduces the divisions of the first, an ingressist transformation, as has already happened and as we have seen in recent months in the Chamber, that is, molecular transmigrations from one party to another and then reproduce the divisions, once won the elections; it would be, in essence, a return to the Italian anomaly. As a distinguished historian, Mario Isnenghi, writes, to paraphrase the title of his book, a sort of "flame return," a return of flame of the history of our country, of this national autobiography that periodically reproduces and returns to feed with consequent weakening of democratic participation. Allow me to invite my colleagues and government representatives to reflect on these reasons, which are not born of preconceived a priori ideas, but arise from commitment to rational argumentation in the public debate on electoral law. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u24	Senator Corsini, the ten-minute time had been indicated to the Presidency by his Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u25	She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u26	Mr President, it is paradoxical to intervene in this deserted Chamber, virtually half-empty, to talk about electoral law after we had to face, for a very precise diktat imposed by Renzi, his ministers and this Government, an unprecedented acceleration before the Christmas break, which even saw us have a river sitting until the morning. And this is because it seemed that the real emergency, the absolute necessity, was to face the incardination of the electoral law and the debate on the electoral law, as if the fate of the country depended on it. Now that we are at the stage of debate and debate on the substance of the electoral law, which should also be the one developing content and agreements between the Groups, we are dealing with the debate in a surreal way, with an empty Chamber and no one in the majority benches, apart from a few members who may be the most interested because they followed the bill in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I ask Senator Cociancich not to look at me like that: rather look around and see that the benches of his Group are deserted. COCIANCICH (PD). The first ones are yours. Bisinella (LN-Aut). And equally, if not more, the benches of the New Right Center are empty, which apparently is the majority force, but also those of Forza Italia. As my colleagues who spoke before me in the Northern League Group, who is the only real opposition force ever present in this Chamber and the only real opposition force present in relation to this Government, we denounce a fact: first of all, the real problems of the country are many others. What really interests people are the problems of the economy that doesn't start again and of rising unemployment, with historical records that are absolutely dramatic, with three and a half million people who have no income from work and young people who can't take care of, a country that goes more and more towards the decline and families and businesses that are always just tartaxed. This government, in fact, as the only recipe to face this economic crisis has to put its hands in the pockets of our fellow citizens. In the face of all this in the Chamber what emerges and what led to these unheard-of races to approve the Senate electoral law and constitutional reform in the House? The so-called Nazarene covenant; let's be clear. Renzi became President of the Council thanks to the Nazarene pact with Berlusconi. This is a government born with a vice of origin and it is useless Hiding it from us. This explains why the electoral law in the Senate and constitutional reform in the House intersect with each other and become a quick and wild chase. There is also the node of the choice of the President of the Republic, including this, evidently, in the Nazarene's agreements. And we have seen this at the meetings of the Commission, despite the fact that there were amendments by the rapporteur who took note of a debate that was taking place: a debate that was also public, unfortunately sometimes done more in the newspapers than in the appropriate parliamentary fora. In the light of those amendments which were to be discussed, we found that, in reality, the pacts were made outside the Commission Chamber, in the secret rooms, with agreements between a few. So it is true that a single amendment has not been voted on in the Commission. The parliamentary debate is strangled, but they have told us, indeed, imposed, that this would be the right place to address the node of the merit of the electoral law. Well, if we're doing this, we'll see in the amending phase what's coming for us. It is, of course, a pity that citizens cannot see the benches of this House, where there is the absolute desert, and understand what it means and how important it is. What is interesting to the Renzi Government is to bring home any result to show that Renzi concludes the European semester with a sort of palliative of reforms and that he faces the Quirinale knot with pacts to maintain with Forza Italia and its political partner, Berlusconi. Given that the priorities for the people are many others, if really an electoral law must be done, in order to put the country in the condition of going to vote, at least it is done in a serious and motivated way and that it is true and effective, so as to go to the vote once the path of the reforms has come to an end, then with a different and redesigned state architecture and with a system that - if the reform comes to an end - will lead to the end of the bicameralism equal. However, since this is not the case and we do not know what will happen, because it seems obvious that with this Government every day there is one, we try to see what to do to secure the country, even in the case of an accident such that we must go to the vote with early elections. In fact, it is not yet clear which system can be used to vote for the House in one way and for the Senate in another, even in the light of the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Having said that, what we wanted to do in the Commission and what we at least want to do here is to make serious and sensible proposals that will improve the text. We have also committed ourselves to constitutional reform and we are committed to making them really and meaningfully to give our country a sense of seriousness. But this is not happening. To do this is useless because in the Commission there was all the time to tackle the draft electoral law with its fundamental nodes and the political points that have not yet been resolved, so we do not understand why the debate has been choked. We have heard in this House from Mr Boschi's voice that the electoral law will certainly follow the path of reform, will go to the natural end of the legislature and there will be plenty of time to do things right, but I do not think that this is the real intention expressed by Prime Minister Renzi. With regard to the substance, we believe that, in the light of the amendments tabled to the Commission by the rapporteur, the allocation of seats takes place on a national proportional basis with some corrections, i.e. with a barrier threshold system and a majority premium of 340 seats. This is a formula that, although it seems to be moving towards a proportional scenario, actually produces a majority list outcome. The majority prize is conditional on a minimum electoral consensus threshold of 40% of the votes, while the barrier threshold is set at 3%: this aspect is also seen with interest on our part; so we will see whether, in the course of the debate in this House, it will really be maintained, because we hope it will be a form to give real and real representation to whole slices of electorate and to parties otherwise destined to be considered absolutely irrelevant, because minority ones would not have a voice in the national Parliament. There is a ballot between the first two competitors, in case of non-achievement of the 40% share; in any case, the elected are identified within plurinomial colleges with a system of blocked capilists. On this point too, we have great reservations because, if we want citizens to return to politics and institutions and to respect the democratic principles of genuine and direct representation, we should leave it to the citizen to choose his representative and to know exactly who is elected on election day, not only as Premier, and which are the party and coalition that win, but also who are the elected representatives in Parliament. With this system of fact this possibility is not guaranteed to the citizens, because what we put on the field is an electoral law that mocks them further: with the system of capilists blocked, only in the larger parties, which exceed 20% of the consensus, those who follow the list will have the opportunity to play the election with the system of preferences, then to be chosen directly by the citizens. All the other parties, on the other hand, will be able to express only the first positions, with a system that will bring back to Parliament members appointed by the party secretariats. Beyond the fact that we can talk about favour or against preferences - there would be reasons to argue in one direction and another - what we care about is that citizens can have the opportunity to say theirs, to have their representatives direct to Parliament and to know who to relate to. As a woman, I care that there is a real, real and effective gender equality because if we are to talk about blocked capilists, nominations and choices made by parties, I believe that other representatives of other groups share that it would then be right that there was 50% of the list. 11:26 a.m. (Bisinella followed). You don't understand why they just have to be men. And that is what a woman who does not prefer the quota system says because I think it is right that, in case there are preferences, the game should be played among those who appear before the voters. If this is not the case and if party secretariats choose and force them to see capilist names, then it is right that there is a real alternation. The thing that worries us is also the multiple candidatures because allowing us to appear in 10 colleges means once again mortifying the possibility for the citizen to know who is going to elect because this will prompt some parties to present in some colleges some names, knowing then that with the system of the option passes to the second place who the parties have wanted, to the detriment of those who the citizens would like, those who have really presented themselves to the electorate and have effective and direct way created a relationship with the electorate. There's a lot to tell. I hope and hope as a League Group that our proposals in this House will be discussed in order to try to improve the electoral law because in many points unfortunately we still have a lot of concerns and still in many points it is not and does not constitute the real preparation of an electoral law that applies in this country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u29	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. Having several Senators from my Group give up speaking, if there were someone else in the majority like Senator Corsini who needed a few more minutes, we gladly give up our time. There is therefore ample margin. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u30	Thank you, Senator Airola. We adhere to flexibility criteria to allow each senator to carry out an accomplished intervention that expresses all the concepts he cares about. She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u31	Madam President, the new year has not begun in the best way: the first session of the Senate opened with yet another forcing, with yet another violation of the basic rules of parliamentary democracy. Last year we saw the entrance to Palazzo Chigi of the mayor of Florence not elected by the citizens, but appointed from above. I remember it with his hands in his pocket while he arrogantly listed the reforms that he would impose on the Italians. During the year we were flooded by Renzi tweets and between clandestine meetings and a Leopold was packed a draft reform constitutional tampering. The broad understandings have been magnified, presented as the only possible solution and alternative for the country. The broad understandings have consolidated with the evil pact also known to the chronicles as the covenant of the Nazarene. The government, lacking a genuine consensus, managed to move forward only with confidence and using emerging tools such as the quota of the times, the decree of urgency, the guillotine and the notorious kangaroo. Last Wednesday the electoral law came into this Chamber without having finished the work of discussion and voting in the Commission, yet another irregularity and forcing that the majority that supports Renzi has now accustomed us to. This electoral law arrived in the hemicycle of Palazzo Madama represents a comedy begun before the Christmas break, on December 19, when the Senate remained at work all night, until a Conference of the Leaders was convened at 7 am on December 20, just to satisfy the narcissism of Prime Minister Renzi who could tweet: We did it: the electoral law is incarnate to the Senate. Unless we find that, today, because of the path taken on this electoral law, I could intervene, perhaps with more relevance, to discuss (with the very few left in the Chamber) whether in carbonara we need bacon or pillow or if it is better the Parmesan cheese or the Roman pecorino: this would perhaps, paradoxically, have more meaning. Today we are talking about the sex of angels, a sort of April fish in advance to Italians by people who should represent the institutions. I still sculpted well in my mind the day that President Pietro Grasso and his emotional and heartfelt speech in which he pointed out that concord, fortress, justice and justice are pictorially represented on the ceiling. President Grasso, perhaps we should call a painter and add the mockery, the scam and the irreverence, as a sign of the passage of this legislature. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The institutions today become the stage from which to make selfies for friends, or to tweet unhappy and pathetic political-advertising commercials, politics patetically enslaved to the ephemeral. If this bill had been really urgent, we would have had to continue work from 21 December onwards. Instead, on December 20 we witnessed the kisses and hugs between senators of fake right and fake left who exchanged Christmas greetings, ready for the holidays and the exodus from Rome. Someone even took advantage of a state flight to bring their children and wives on a snow holiday. For God's sake: perhaps the protocol has allowed it, but it is interesting to note that in a short time your Premier Renzi has passed from the pimps chiseled by bicycle of the first Florentine commercials to the defense of privileges, to which he seems to have adapted quickly, as well as to the royal role. And the citizens, meanwhile, pay! But let us return to the mockery of what we are witnessing: the electoral law. Everything that has not been done in these days, now not only must be presented and illustrated, but above all it must be hastily approved for the next hashtag Renziano, in order to continue the apology of superficiality. All this being said, as we come to the substance of the matter, we believe that this proposal for a law, as it has been presented, does not respond to the remarks made by the Council, either in the rewording voted by the Chamber of Deputies, or in the amendment suggested by the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, since the arrogance and obtuseness of the Prime Minister have in fact prevented the conclusion of the discussion in the Commission. We are examining an already obsolete text, which has been surpassed by successive political agreements. A first text was, in fact, fired in March and was completely outdated. This electoral law also applies only to the House, because even if the reform of the Constitution has not yet been approved it is assumed that the Senate as it is now will no longer exist, or rather it will become a sort of post-work for regional councillors and mayors, and who knows how many of them aspire to the appointment only to escape problems with justice, all excluding the possibility of citizens to vote for the future members of Palazzo Madama, scientifically selected by those who at this moment want to make democracy rag paper (an ancient dream of Masonic lodges of ancient and recent memory). It should be pointed out that this law is proposed at a time when the mandatory parliamentary passages for a constitutional bill such as the current one, which provides for the reform of the Senate and many articles of Part Two of the Constitution, are still to be exhausted. Among other things, it would be a reform that, in order to be effective, will require the referendum, or at least so we were promised by Renzi through the reassuring ministerial announcement all smiles and commercials. The only sure fact about the electoral law is that the Constitutional Court, with sentence No. 1 of 2014, has definitively put an end to the so-called Porcellum. The constitutional core of the Council's decision lies in the following twofold statement. Firstly, the alteration of proportionality through majority awards is possible, but it must not be abnormal, in view of the objective pursued, which is the stability of government and the efficiency of decision-making processes. Secondly, the election of individual Members of Parliament must not lack the support of personal choice by citizens-electors. The reasons, therefore, are simple and clear even if, as highlighted by the President emeritus of the Constitutional Court Zagrebelsky, there is wide discretion of the legislator in the electoral matter, deriving from the absence of a constituent choice in favour of one or another electoral system, although the proportional system for the election of the Chamber of Deputies has been indicated as the preferable in a known agenda approved by the constituent assembly. Such discretion does not escape the control of reasonableness and proportionality, in the same way as the constitutional principles identified in Articles 1, paragraph 2, 48, paragraph 2, and 67 of the Constitution. From these rules, in connection with the freedom granted to the legislator to configure electoral systems according to its own evaluation of opportunities, it should result that each vote must be able to contribute equally effectively to the formation of elected bodies at the time when it is expressed and counted, but not also that it must have the same weight at the time of the result. Since the electoral prize is not subject to the award of a certain minimum number of votes, the law providing for it does not provide for reasonable mediation. It sacrifices, out of proportion and out of proportion, the principle of representation, subjecting it to the functions of the Chambers. In short, with respect to the objective pursued (I am quoting the words of the Council), the discipline of the majority award determines an excessive compression of the representative function of the Assemblies, as well as of the equal right to vote, clearly with respect to the result, so as to produce a profound alteration of the balances on which the entire architecture of the current constitutional order is based. In the old text - errors that should also be avoided in a new proposal for an electoral law - the vote limited to the choice of lists of candidates predetermined by other parties or similar, according to the Court, "injures the logic of representation delivered in the Constitution." This means that political representation cannot be transformed and reduced to trust in parties. The system of blocked lists is, precisely, the method of this transformation and reduction: the party presents itself to the electorate with a "take or leave" of a package that the elector - so to speak - cannot unpack. That is what happened in the last elections. The principle contained in the judgment is clear: the voter's right cannot be reduced to membership as a whole. This implies the need for the list vote, in the electoral systems that foresee it, to be accompanied by a vote of preference of the candidates. The blocked lists prevent this vote, because the determination of the nominations, according to the electoral system declared unconstitutional, was monopolized by the leadership of the parties that, by establishing the order, also predetermined the outcome of the elections within the number of seats due to each party list, according to the electoral outcome. In this way, the role of voters was simply reduced to the distribution of weights between these representatives, with the effect of multiple applications and the relative possibility of option between different colleges. Here lies the core of the Consulta's argument, that in recent years there has been the substitution of a type of representation of electoral citizens with the party that chooses for everyone, betraying the constitutional dictation. Finally, there is a further concern. Given the timing and the manner in which this reform was presented, i.e. if this Parliament were to adopt an unconstitutional law before its expiry, as much as the one annulled by the Court, as it seems very possible, and on the basis of this law, would it still be worth the doctrine of the continuity of the next Parliament's constitutional state? Actually, the answer is until it is uncertain. It could be as long as the government likes it. The principle of continuity of the State casts its shadow far away. In a nutshell, today we are faced with an elected Parliament with an unconstitutional law and which has stood only to avoid having an institutional vacuum. And if this Porcellum 2.0 goes into port, we'll be in the same condition. To err is human, to persevere is diabolical. Some of these concerns are shared by illustrious constitutionalists, presidents emeritus of the Constitutional and Technical Court, as well as political representatives of other parliamentary groups. We have just heard some statements from senators on the left side of this House who support the same arguments. Since the electoral law, after the Constitution, is the architrave on which the true democracy of this country is based, we hope that common sense prevails, but, given the forces and absurdities that we are witnessing and above all thanks to the silent complicity of the highest personalities of this nation, the 5 Star Movement and millions of Italian citizens no longer believe in common sense. And to think that it would have sufficed to have a President of the Republic who guaranteed the democratic and pluralistic representation of national unity, the guarantor of the Constitutional Charter, with the force to refer clearly unconstitutional legislative acts back to the Chambers, just as sometimes our President Pertini did, and all this farce would never have happened. These are the years of democratic schizophrenia, in which the rules are changed according to the convenience of the maneuver on duty, in the total shock of the citizens, who have decided to stem this anti-democratic drift. Former Presidents of the Council belonging to Masonic secret lodges, born to upset the democratic structure of our country, today they can be received at the Quirinale in magna pump; and neither can definitive sentences for tax fraud stop them. These are the years of democratic schizophrenia, in which unelected Presidents of the Council, but appointed by a President of the Republic, lock themselves in secret rooms with former piduists playing over the head of law and legitimacy. And we also hear and give exversaries by President Napolitano, us who with great effort every day, even in these classrooms, denounce and loudly reaffirm the great danger of anti-democratic drift that this country is suffering. But ex malo bonum, that is, we bring out good from evil. It may be that history gives us back what it denied us during these nine years of Napolitano presidency: honesty, dignity, morality, in short straight back, because of Azzeccagarbugli or Don Abbondio we have already had plenty of it, unless the Nazarene imposes the worst. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Filippi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the examination of the electoral law in the Senate, which should lead to the definition of the text on which the House of Deputies is then called to final approval, is, as we all know, a key and central step in this parliamentary term. This, not only because it will define its nature and duration, but also because of the sign under which the future will open. At the same time, the House is engaged in the second reading examination of the constitutional reform that provides for the overcoming of the perfect or equal bicameralism with the forecast of the indirect election of the Senate by the regional councils; indirect election recently experimented with the election of the presidents and councils of the Provinces, intermediate bodies of next and desired suppression, which I do not think have aroused any particular enthusiasm. The political picture of the Italian situation is objectively frayed and in the last few weeks further weakened, in the eyes of the public, both by the recent judicial events of Mafia Capitale and by the case concerning the decree on fiscal delegation with the genesis and management of the much-vilified article 29-a; events seemingly irrelevant on the measure under consideration, but that in reality contribute to aggravate that already heavy climate of deep distrust that surrounds in a whole political indistinct and institutions. A crisis of credibility that for some time risks a dangerous screwing-up between the political forces engaged in producing the necessary change to the country and invoked by the citizens and those dynamics that instead constitute the unconditional reflection of the survival of a ruling class that resists the change in the name of its own tornaconti and of the more or less legitimate interests of partisan. In the background, but in reality later on, and therefore inevitably in line with the parliamentary dynamics of approving these acts, the election of the Head of State and the closure of the European Presidency. To all this short circuit, to which the information system is not even foreign, it is perhaps useful that each of us, in this general discussion, as in a kind of preheating before the game, consisting of the vote on the amendments and the final vote on the measure, represents as far as possible its own sensitivities and declares not only the desired objectives but also tries to establish the insurmountable principles, within which to decline its own responsibilities and take any distance from them. In short, even before the rules of the game and the tactics of the teams it is good to specify the boundaries of the field of play; boundaries of the field that precisely because of the institutional reform are going to be redefined. Our state system, as we know, is based on a complex and articulated balance of powers in which also the procedures of election of the main institutional bodies avoid the risk of an absolute dominus and the risk of alteration of this same equilibrium. Our institutional and democratic system has long been founded, as the Constitutional Charter dictated, on the role and prerogatives of political forces represented by parties. With their progressive deterioration, at least in the forms of participation and consensus as they were known in the last century, those guarantees represented by them have probably failed. Increasingly, the use of popular will has established the main source of legitimacy that the only sovereign in democracy can guarantee. The systematic use of the expression of that will, as an essential requirement for full legitimacy, both for the governing bodies and for the candidatures called to represent the popular will in the institutions, has led to a curvature of the democratic dynamics which in some ways constitutes an irreversible process and only apparently contradicted precisely with the return to indirect elections. I believe that this particular aspect will have to be taken more into account in the course of our work. Hence the preference for systems that bring the people's representatives closer to the people themselves, with small colleges first of all, hopefully one-named or in any case with a system of preferences that really favors the choice of the candidate by the elector and that includes the election as a truly minority percentage of blocked candidates. With regard to nominations as a result of the appointment of political secretariats, if we may also have no difficulty in understanding the legitimate reasons for the selection of a functional ruling class even for the best parliamentary activity, it is also clear to us that in recent years the use that has been made of it has certainly not been so noble. The idea of the prince and his court, in a sort of children and stepchildren with Serie A and Serie B candidates within every political force, was neither a beautiful spectacle nor was it respectful of the actual values of the nominations at stake, thus fueling further distance and mistrust in the electorate, which is increasingly rightly attentive to these choices. For this reason I believe that the principle of blocked capilists and the system of multi-candidates are absolutely aspects to be reviewed and dosed, also because they give rise, with the renunciation of the election of one college rather than another, to a system of surreptitious election not controllable and above all not exercised by the elector. Compared to the text under consideration, I imagine with the presentation by the President of the Commission, there are some amendments to the barrier thresholds and the one necessary to obtain the majority award from the first round. The former seem to be expected at around 3% and the latter at around 40%, resulting in a significant fall for the former, commensurate with an equally sensitive rise in the latter. If these assumptions were confirmed, it would be considered to be good and fair in view both of a more appropriate right of stand for smaller parties and of the need to reduce the disproportion of a majority prize in the first round. To these two positive aspects, however, I would also like to link others on the basis of greater organic consistency of the text, starting from a discipline of the second round that allows the possibility of aggregations between coalitions and between political forces in full transparency, thus making the popular will more aware of the electoral cartel that stands to govern the country also because ours is tending to be a coalitional and non-party system, a system in which Article 49 of our Constitutional Charter still finds it difficult to find full and convincing implementation today. It is not to be underestimated the role of the opposition which could be fragmented into multiple minorities which cannot fully exercise its role of institutional and democratic control, just as fundamental, for a democratic system like ours. Last but not least, the so-called safeguard clause. I think we need to be clear about this. The safeguard clause must make it absolutely clear that the electoral law comes into force only after the popular referendum has approved institutional reform and the new electoral system is consistent, without any other subordinate. Indeed, any early dissolution of Parliament should result in the application of the so-called Consultellum, the law as amended by the Constitutional Court's ruling, which, in my opinion, would implicitly be worth admitting that the fate of the reforms is marked towards a path that this time could really be said to be irreversible by political will, as well as by popular will. I personally believe that there are all the conditions for good work, even if with the handicap of not having had a rapporteur or rapporteurs on the measure, for a behavior that I have considered at the wrong time and that - I must also admit - in the Cesarini area instead seems to have produced, precisely with the debate on the prejudices, the results I highly expected. With the new electoral law, however, we will secure our electoral system, even with regard to those who, in a recent past, have proved to support more the disaster of ungovernability rather than favour the possibility of more advanced solutions and synthesis. The perhaps momentary overcoming of a bipolar system, as we have known, cannot and must not represent the hypothesis of a perfect storm at the institutional level. If this reform is adopted - I hope with the necessary further improvements - then whoever arrives first will actually win the election. Finally, I wish President Finocchiaro my heartfelt congratulations for the delicate task that awaits him, and I fully trust in you for your recognized and undisputed competences but also for your gifts of mediation and political synthesis, never as necessary this time. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u34	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u35	Madam President, we are discussing the general debate on a draft law, which comes from the approval of the House of Deputies, which has as its object provisions on the election of the House of Deputies. This is one of the issues that I think we have to deal with because the electoral law intervenes only and exclusively, or at least so it appears even if in the text it is not exactly so, to regulate the election of the Chamber of Deputies and not even of the Senate of the Republic. In fact, we are now used to giving the people's will, even the one that we have not yet consulted, because of what we have all stated and also provided for in the Constitution itself, with regard to the current constitutional revision. However, since we have the ability to interpret the popular will in advance, we assume that the current constitutional revision is approved by the people and confirmed through the referendum, provided for by the revision procedures. That referendum, beware not according to the undersigned but by explicit expression of the majority and also of the Government, is expected to be done and it is possible, as has happened in other countries, that the people, called to express themselves on a constitutional revision for the abolition of the Senate, have manifested that they do not want the abolition of the Senate representing a forum for discussion and also a guarantee of formation more correct, more punctual and more useful than the laws of the State. This has been said by the people in other countries, called to decide, and this could be said by the people through the referendum, also in this country. Nevertheless, we have the presumption of assuming that the constitutional revision currently under discussion will certainly be approved by Parliament and certainly approved by the Italian people. And it is on this subject that, in our view, the debate must be developed. The electoral law has an objective, which is not to guarantee Members in this parliamentary term, nor to guarantee majority political formations to perpetuate themselves over time, nor to organize power according to objectives other than those of the correct, wider and more effective representation of the will of the sovereign people. The aim is precisely to constitute a coherent representation and capable of fully expressing the will of the people what is decided by the sovereignty that the people exercise through that representation. The main objective of an electoral law, therefore, is not governance, but the consistent representation of the people's will. It is not governability, but the punctual representation of the social and cultural articulation of the Italian population. Instead, in the text we are considering today we perceive as the main anxiety that of so-called governability. But what is governability but the fruit of a direct expression of popular sovereignty? Governance, which animates the worst anxieties, is manifested through authoritarian forms that often express themselves against the people and not for the people, are not a direct descendant of popular sovereignty but contrast with popular sovereignty. Therefore the main anxiety of an electoral law cannot be governability, to know who governs in the aftermath of the elections, but to know that who will rule in the aftermath of the elections is legitimized by a popular will certified as the widest, that popular sovereignty that has freely and fully expressed itself through the vote. It used to be said "a head-a-vote" to represent the idea that every citizen, the citizens as a whole, of the national community so composite would express itself fully. Today, even through this proposal, we do not say "a head-a vote" but "some heads-some votes" and "some heads-no votes." If we accept such a concept, which is represented by the disappointment that the political class, in protecting popular representation, puts popular sovereignty at risk, we go, even if unconsciously, to an authoritarian drift, and the authoritarian drifts are known when they begin but not when they end; we know what forms they have but not what they will have. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups.]] We must be careful: in a democratic country there must be pluralism, pluralism of ideas, organizations and powers and not concentration and centralization. This is why our Constituents have foreseen the bicameralism present in other countries to guarantee, also through the contrast of opinions between the two Chambers, the necessary discussion that serves to protect, at best, the popular will. It is also necessary to ensure that representatives can be chosen. The electoral law therefore has not only the function of instrument to choose the majorities of the governments, but also the political staff called to represent us, especially in the parliamentary assemblies where you come in contact and where you confront roots, cultures, different political positions, where they have the title to be represented all the social categories. Regarding preferences, some wonder what happens if the people decide. It happens that, because we live in a degenerate system, preferences are bought and we will have a country of corrupt with a parliament of corrupt. Others say that so chooses better those who have the foresight to choose, that, as is known, are those who make up the secretariats of the parties, but the parties are all disqualified, we can no longer stand one and so are disqualified also the ruling groups of the parties; then there is no solution to this. The solution would be a high country on the cultural level, on the social front, on the rights front; a country that unfortunately, if anything, we have had it, certainly we do not now. However, it has not even degenerated more than the norm. There is, as it were, an emphasis on the limits and defects that is instrumental so that one may think that someone can decide in the name and on behalf of everyone. Therefore, the theme is to build the road, not to take note of a difficulty, but to constitute the road emphasizing a difficulty for which the choice is centralized, and authoritarian. That is what we express our opposition to. Citizens have the right to decide in any case [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] and a people qualifies for what it is, for how it acts, especially when it chooses its representatives and it is no longer tolerable to think - moreover, it has never been - that in this function it can be replaced by anyone. For these reasons, preferences are another theme. I therefore wonder why we accept that the debate on constitutional reform is acquired without even going through that direct popular consensus that we have all said that we want to respect instead; because the anxiety of governability takes on a disproportionate importance compared to that of representation; I wonder why distrust of the choice of own representatives made precisely by citizens and the people and why still the majority prizes are attributed to minorities, in a country where it goes to vote less and less people, because it understands that voting, that is to say expressing its own will, does not matter. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group]] Other factors count; other processes determine the decision. I think that why it is in modern history, and in the way in which it has gone to configure the organization of the State, but also in the fact of being within an international system in evolution, where the decision-making processes, the great choices are increasingly shifted, where the direct participation of people is mortified, where the weight of the national communities is in fact compromised, where we must guard against what is close to us because it is always a possible danger, where hatred and division are confirmed every day through acts, but also through an indescribable and intolerable cultural solicitation. We should make the opposite path. We should have worked for constitutional reforms, and also for electoral law, not to guarantee 3%, let alone the survival of this Parliament as it is composed. If this means sacrificing Parliament as an institution, we should have rejected the idea of preserving it. But what safeguard rule? And, even in contrast to someone in my party, I ask: but what 3%? What must weigh is another point: the right of our community to decide its own destiny, which manifests itself through a process of selection of the ruling class and of those who exercise the political function, which is the first function in the general interest; all the others concern partial interests. This function must be defended; and it does not defend any rule. It defends the conviction of the citizens and of the people who make up our community that their role is decisive for the choice of the ruling class and the measures that it must propose and do. If we accept the idea that popular sovereignty has to succumb to another exercise of power, which is functional to guarantee the best of the governed, without listening to the opinion of those who are governed, we will open up a path of degeneration of our democracy and overcoming the democratic rights of people, to which I hope we will never reach. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u36	I support the follow-up to the general debate on the draft electoral reform law, with a view to moving to the next item on the agenda. The general debate will resume, if possible, in this afternoon sitting, in relation to the time of the debate itself, or it will be postponed to today's afternoon sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u37	The next item is the resolution on the opinion of the 1st standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, for the draft law No 1733: Conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 1 of 5 January 2015 laying down urgent provisions for the exercise of undertakings of national strategic interest in crisis and for the development of the city and area of Taranto. At its meeting on 8 January the first standing Commission gave a favourable opinion on the existence of these conditions and requirements. Subsequently, by the prescribed number of senators, the vote of the Assembly was requested on that opinion. I am asking the extensor of the opinion, Senator Migliavacca, if he intends to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u38	Madam President, I confirm the opinion in favour of the existence of the presuppositions of necessity and urgency of this measure, as the decree-law in question provides for extraordinary interventions and measures which, in addition to the well-known environmental, social and economic emergencies of the area of Taranto, are absolutely necessary and urgent in order to guarantee the economic, productive and occupational continuity of the Ilva plant. That is why I confirm the favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u39	I would remind you that you will be able to speak no more than one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u42	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, this decree - like, alas, many others, who have been fighting for the last year and a half on Ilva, often with results that are not exactly positive - in terms of necessity and urgency, has elements that are contradictory. I say this with great clarity and immediacy: it is clear that the intervention for the transition to extraordinary administration has its positive aspects, it being understood that it will be necessary to verify exactly the outcome and the results, since it obviously has the aim of preserving the productive and occupational continuity. From this point of view, we could agree on the conditions of necessity and urgency, but there are other aspects of the decree that frankly leave us very perplexed, not only on the substance - and we will have the opportunity to discuss them - but also on the principles of necessity and urgency themselves. I wonder if the need and urgency was to give certainty of the time when the environmental plan provided for in the Integrated Environmental Authorisation must be implemented, which is once again being called into question, and to decide that the works are intended to be carried out by 31 July 2015 if 80% will be. But 80% of what: the scale of the interventions or the specific number? That changes a lot. The need and urgency were to give certainty to the safety of mining parks, which are among the main ones responsible for raising dust to the Drums district, but this certainty is not there. For this reason, we do not believe that, in this respect, there were the prerequisites for necessity and urgency. Once again, there is action at environmental level in fact leading to a further indeterminateness, but also by entrusting in fact the decision on the final step within which the entire environmental plan will have to be implemented to a decree that will stand alone and exclusively to the decision of the President of the Council. We are very concerned about the shift and therefore the implementation of the whole plan: frankly, the urgency was exactly the opposite, that is, the need to give further certainty to the implementation of the plan. From the constitutional point of view - and we shall deal with this in substance later, when the measure arrives in this Chamber, during the examination of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling - certainly the need and urgency was to give the Commissioner the criminal immunity, also as an administrative responsibility, which will therefore have a fairly certain effect. Failure to make permanent use of pollutant emissions will have no criminal consequences for the administrator himself. The necessity and urgency are very questionable because, among other things, we intervene once again with changes on the assessment of health damage by ensuring that this assessment - as explicitly stated in the decree - cannot modify the requirements contained in the Integrated Environmental Authorisation (IAA). The Region remains alone and only the possibility to request its review in the light of the assessment of health damage. Therefore, the Region of its competences is also de facto expropriated and, therefore, there is a weakening of this assessment and in fact also of the explicit competences that Article 117 of the Constitution entrusts to the Regions as competing legislation; not to mention the story that in fact causes the competence of the ARPA Puglia to be eliminated, especially on the whole environmental part. There is therefore a real extromission ex lege and, therefore, a further violation of Articles 114 and 117 of the Constitution. As you can see, this decree has some meanings that in the first part of the transition to extraordinary administration have a profile that can certainly be positive and that provides for necessity and urgency; the remaining part of the decree is, in our opinion, deprived of these elements of necessity and urgency and presents some aspects of unconstitutionality quite marked. For this ambivalence we shall be abstaining on the opinion of the 1st Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u45	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, here we are and here we are on a decree; this time it has not been called save Ilva, but the concept changes little. Today, as has already been the case in the first Commission, we will decide on the question of the profile of necessity and urgency, which this decree certainly does not present in all its parts and in some respects remains strong doubts. We have already pointed out these things and explained them in the first Commission through our components. The purpose of the Decree-Law is to extend to companies operating at least one industrial plant and the rules governing the extraordinary administration of companies operating in the essential services sector, to which the former Marzano law refers. This also includes Ilva, which has already been declared of strategic interest and which has already been submitted to the Commission. In this regard, a few months ago we wrote rivers of ink and provisions; I remember at least three specific decrees and two norms inserted in as many omnibus decrees, in which we occasionally find some article related to Ilva. In particular, the decree lays down guidelines for the future commissioning of Ilva and the constitution of the newco, with public participation, which will deal with environmental recovery, the industrial plan and its future placing on the market, which are topics that we fully agree with, if not for the way in which they are approached. Although the Government's objective seems to be to relaunch the steel industry in the future, in fact, behind this action there is yet another intervention by the State in favour of Ilva, which stops the extraordinary commission of the company, created in 2013, but creates the new figure of the extraordinary commissioner of the extraordinary administration procedure. So much so that Commissioner Gnudi and Sub-Commissioner Carrubba will most likely be tasked with leading the public newco with the aim of re-launching it industrially and healing it environmentally within a time that, according to our - or rather, your - Prime Minister Renzi, should last from eighteen to thirty-six months. The next action of the Government will be to implement the contents of the decree-law, in order to proceed to the cession or the lease of the assets of the group. Also in this case we are curious to see if the decree-law, with its 6 articles, will have the ability to make sure that the company can really recover. We are therefore faced with yet another decree, which, in fact, is not conclusive in the case and cannot therefore be judged of necessity and urgency. Proof of this is the article 2, paragraph 5, of the decree-law, which specifies that the environmental plan is intended to be implemented if, by 31 July 2015, at least 80% of the requirements are fulfilled at that date. The decree-law is already clearly lame, because another one is already foreseen for the implementation of the remaining 20% of the requirements. Certainly cannot be judged urgent dispositions those that shorten the iter of approval of all the plans for the realization of the infrastructural participations necessary for the widening and the adaptation of the port of Taranto and other dispositions for the recovery, nor can the redevelopment and the valorization of the old city of Taranto can be considered of sum urgency. For this latter purpose, it is noted that the resources of the Development and Cohesion Fund are used within the limits of current cash availabilities. It seems that the resources are not all immediately available and above all suitable and then we ask ourselves a question, Mr President: is it more important to comply with the requirements for the environmental recovery of Ilva or to carry out actions that are certainly less urgent than those of re-launching and re-qualifying the company? For our Group, the urgency - and therefore the need and urgency - of which we are now discussing - is to put on the track something good and definitive that can allow the company to resume production. In the light of what I have just said and of what has emerged from the work in the first Commission, our Group will vote against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u46	We welcome the students of the Istituto comprensivo "Filippino Lippi" in Prato, who are today visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u49	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the Government, we are here today to discuss whether this umpteenth decree saves Ilva is constitutional, that is, whether it is really urgent and necessary, as should all the decree-laws, which to an exceptional extent can be allowed to the Government, only if they meet the requirements of Article 77 of the Constitution. But can the seventh decree be said to be urgent save Ilva? By now we are at a saga, which has passed by number of episodes "Twilight" and has reached "Harry Potter"; here too there are vampires, which are well identifiable, and there is the blood lost and shed by the victims of this disaster. Is there an urgent need for a decree that repeats rules, adds derogations and inserts amendments to previous decrees? But then or they were not urgent and were not well done and it would have been better to wait and follow the ordinary constitutional legislative procedures (i.e. drafts of parliamentary initiative law), or today we simply have a situation where, mocking the principle of the competence of Parliament and legislative initiative, we have a Government that to the Ilva family owner, with direct contacts (also documented in phone calls, as we have seen in the past), guarantees the favors of the case. Some of my previous speakers mentioned the fact that there are public and important interests to contend with. Apart from the Riva family, I don't see any. In 2011, the well-known chemical and environmental expertise showed that there was a link between mortality, soaring in the Taranto area, emissions and how steel production was managed at that site. At that time we were at a crossroads: closing the company and taking responsibility for the consequences from a social point of view, or continuing and letting people die. The judiciary opted for the first route, the government for the second. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Government has invented a strategic interest, a public interest to contend with the right to health. He has invented an extraordinary commissioner: so extraordinary, that he has been guaranteed a safe conduct, an impunity. They knew that he should have done unworthy illegal acts and, therefore, ensured that it would not be prosecutable, not only from the administrative point of view, but also from the criminal point of view. Are we aware of this and the consequences it has on legal certainty and the confidence that citizens can have in the institutions? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This created a free harbour where we have a sheriff who does the interests of lobbyists and who does not administer the law, but who is above it. As for the public interests that would be disputed in this painful affair, I wonder what they are. We are talking about protection of labour (Articles 1, 4, 35 and 36 of the Constitution), but we must avoid mystifications. We must not protect employment: we must protect people's income, dignity and the right to work in a healthy environment. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Please avoid these gestures. (Returning to a Senator of the PD Group). I'm a disgrace to yourself and the tradition of your party. With citizenship income we could have escaped occupational blackmail, especially since the ARPA report tells us that the social and health costs associated with Ilva's activity exceed the total amount of all salaries and wages. Basically, it was convenient to leave the Ilva firm; we would have spared. Here we have the violation of two other articles of the Constitution, because we are dealing with irrational measures (Article 3) and violations of the principles of public administration (Article 97). According to the Constitution, the public administration must respect the criteria of effectiveness and efficiency in the use of resources. Why do I quote this provision? Because if we want to give a public interest here to the extraordinary administration of this company, then we also have to be subordinate, otherwise we do a public activity when we protect private interests and we call ourselves out of the obligations that this entails. Let us bear in mind that other articles of the Constitution are being blatantly violated here: Article 9, which concerns environmental protection, and Article 2, which concerns respect for fundamental human rights. And I am not referring to the right to health, enshrined in Article 32, which is still violated, but to the simple right to life. We now come to the substance of the provisions contained in this umpteenth "save Ilva." If we had admitted - and from our point of view could not be - a derogation from the principles that I have told you for some balance between interests, this derogation had to be protected in a strict manner. At the time it was established that Ilva could continue to exist if 97 prescriptions were complied with, the process of compliance with those requirements had to be speeded up to the maximum. Instead, while a roof was being fixed earlier, this roof is being lowered to 80% today. It is like saying that before I could agree to the death of people, trying at least to limit the risks to a non-negotiable level, while today this level is being negotiated. Why? Because there's no money. When it is said that life is priceless, you here are disgusting it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is also said that these requirements are intended to be met if they are fulfilled at 80%, but 80% in number and not by weight. I want to set an example for the citizens who follow from home. It's like they're telling me, when I review the car, that I can't move around with my vehicle, because I have to change the engine, the brakes and the gearbox. However, I am allowed to circulate if I respect at least 80% of the 97 prescriptions I have been given. So what do I do? I change the windscreen wipers, a light bulb and the lining; I fix the dashboard; I clean the windshield and circle with a car that kills people. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Here too we are faced with an irrational norm. Then there is the failure of the legislation concerning public administration, where it is said that, by way of derogation from Law No 347 of 2003, a commissary and substantially bankrupt company, which should eventually be surrendered only by public evidence, as is done in the public administration, can be surrendered by direct negotiation and, therefore, by private criteria. I do not think it is necessary to add much more, except that we are also going against Article 11 of the Constitution, which concerns respect for international treaties. We have constraints.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u50	You should finish, Senator Endrizzi. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u51	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, I am in the end, as I believe you are fruity. There is a breach of the Treaties when there is an infringement procedure opened by the European Community on the Ilva case, in relation to emission control obligations and environmental liability. The European Commissioner for the Environment said that this case demonstrates the failure of a country in accordance with basic principles. For all this, I would ask that the opinion proposed by Mr Migliavacca be rejected. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u54	BRUNI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this is yet another decree which concerns Ilva di Taranto. The question of the Apulian steel works has been keeping Parliament - as we know - busy for several years now and finally by Decree No 100 last year. As a matter of fact, the first decree that we face in 2015 is precisely this, of which today we evaluate the presuppositions of constitutionality. Ilva brings with it problems of environmental protection, public health and the preservation of jobs. We have discussed this so many times and we run the risk of talking about ourselves and saying banality with respect to the very serious problems that grip the city of Taranto and the entire Ionian area. The decree extends the procedures provided by the extraordinary administration for companies operating in essential public services also to companies operating at least one industrial plant of strategic national interest; the latter concept, which had represented the novelty of the last decrees I mentioned earlier. We move, that is, from the extraordinary commissioner, deliberated in 2013, to the extraordinary administration in order to guarantee the continuation of the productive activity, ensuring that the business resources are destined for this purpose. In this way, the current Commissioner may be appointed Extraordinary Commissioner for the Extraordinary Administrative Procedure. In this case, the novelty must be noted. It is a real statiszation of a company that had been privatised in 1995. This decision leaves us puzzled, to use a euphemism, considering our wealth of ideas. The requirements of the environmental plan, provided for by the integrated environmental authorisation of March 2014, must be implemented, according to the decree, at 80% by 31 July 2015, while a subsequent decree of the President of the Council of Ministers will identify the deadline for the realization of the remaining 20%. The actions provided for in the environmental plan are declared urgent and indifferent, being the management of the enterprise considered to be of public utility. The special commissioner, therefore, can manage the sums seized at the time at Ilva, which will flow into special accounts, and additional resources allocated by CIPE and Fintecna for an additional 150 million. Therefore, a single interinstitutional governance and a specific institutional development contract for Taranto are introduced, which absorbs the functions of all existing technical tables. Together with these, in the decree are contained other measures that concern the redevelopment of the area of Taranto and its port. On these aspects of detail concerning the redevelopment of the urban area of Taranto there must be a legitimate doubt as to the usefulness of a legislative instrument such as that of the decree. As we said on the occasion of Decree No. 100 last year, which followed Decree No. 67 again of 2014, that decree would not solve the problems, indeed it was prodromic to the issuing of new decrees. And this is happening. This is how it has been, and on time, we are once again facing the problem again. There is still a further question as to the appropriateness of the appropriations, since we do not know whether the resources to which I have just referred will be sufficient, and above all the certainty of the deadlines set out in the decree. It is therefore necessary to solve the main problem of this company and that is the need to confront the market. We believe that it is a method error to amend and reprogram measures already taken, by means of never exhaustive measures, to disarticulate rules which must be periodically amended. It is wrong, in fact, not to propose a complete and definitive solution to the problems. You switch from buffer measure to other buffer measure, perhaps because you are afraid to go to the market. Our vote on the conditions set out in Article 77 of the Constitution remains a positive vote only because the continuation of Ilva's activity involves the lives of the families of hundreds of workers who derive their livelihood from this company. An entire city, an entire area, however, awaits something more, a real definitive solution. What we expect, therefore, is a further step towards the bestowal of the company Ilva to a newco that, once and for all, goes in the direction of the market, considering that the manifestations of interest by multinational steel companies so far have however registered. The market solution is the only one that can make the word end to the continuous interventions of the State that have registered in all these years on the Taranto company of the steel. For this reason we hope that the extraordinary administration phase will be completed as soon as possible and, by announcing the favourable vote on the constitutional conditions, we express the further hope that the task of relaunching the company and the entire steel industry will be re-assigned to the market. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u57	D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). Madam President, this is not a question of legally assessing the constitutionality of a decree. I think it is a question of pointing out what was one of the cornerstones of the ruin and the public debt in Italy: the pretence that the State had in starting to be an entrepreneur. With Ilva - I had the opportunity to tell Minister Clini, when I was a Member - we punctually returned to Montedison; we returned to the shepherds in which we sell a good to a private person (in this case Riva), who privatises profits and creates the conditions to advertise losses. Since there is an urgent need to safeguard public health for the pollution that that entrepreneur created, the State, leviathan for taxes, but pants in making use of the lever of public money - I remember being the taxpayers' money, because there is no public money - runs to the rescue of this company decoction. Even the stones of the road know that Italian steel is not competitive, because in Italy the cost of energy, for the energy choices quite demagogic made a few years ago, is much higher than the cost of energy in other countries where steel is produced. Therefore, we have two impellencies: the safeguarding of jobs, which only God knows to Bagnoli how much they cost (we still have people assisted and regularly paid, despite having closed the plant about twenty-five years ago), and in this case the indisputable urgency to restore the environment and, therefore, to protect the health of the citizens of Taranto. The system, however, is the same: it is the same system that produced the mother of all bribes; it is the same system that produced the fraudulent enrichment of political parties. But nobody has ever paid for the 2,500 billion that put us back the State between the sale of the shares to Gardini and the purchase, after six years, at twice the price, after having given, as contribution and tax reductions, another 1,000 billion to Gardini. We tried a political system for 300 billion, which was the ridge that was made on that sale. We've never tried anyone for a felony damage that was ten times bigger. And history repeats itself. We run to the rescue of a gentleman who had at low cost a business, used it in violation of his duties to safeguard the environment, corrupting authorities, creating connivances of all kinds. Today he returns us that company and we, for the sake of the public salus, run to his rescue to pay out the money that he has not paid out, and no one is scandalized about it. There's a lot of rumor in here, so we're talking about a decree that we're helping a company that's in trouble. We are restoring the principle of the most rotten statism, the criterion behind which the corruption of the Italian party and political system has operated. By voting on this decree, you repeat that season when the State was was wasting the public money. Luigi Sturzo said that three were the evil beasts: the statism, the clientelism and the waste of public money. Well, in this decree all three of these evil beasts are identified and it is up to your conscience and your responsibility to vote for this stateistic reproach that will produce other troubles and debts, if not other bribes and other bribes. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI), FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u58	We shall now proceed to the vote. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken simultaneously by electronic procedure, even for fairness to those Members who were not present at 9.30 a.m. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the favourable opinion expressed by the first standing Commission, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of the conditions required by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as well as the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, with regard to Decree-Law No 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u59	Let us resume, for the time still available to us, the general debate on electoral reform. Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. [[Brusio.]] I would kindly ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber if they feel that they are not seeing the continuation of the debate. I would ask you to do so quickly and quietly, so that Senator Mauro can make his speech. Please, Senator, I'll try to guarantee you a sustainable environment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u60	Madam President, thank you. I would like to develop my considerations on the electoral law in line with what has been the path of the supposed reforms that we are trying and I believe that the most appropriate form to explain what I mean is the category of paradox. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u61	Colleagues, I renew to those who want to leave the Chamber the prayer to flow quickly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u62	Please, Senator Mauro. MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). For Christ's sake, Madam President, what is more paradoxical than a Parliament that is not heard? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would not underestimate the presence of so many colleagues, Senator. MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). In any case, it is the category of paradox that can help us understand what is happening. Through the instrument of paradox, it is easier to understand some of the difficulties encountered by the analysis of the results that we have obtained with the electoral law that we are called to vote. In fact, it is a new electoral law that must meet the contradictions of the old one. It is necessary to understand the contradictions of the old and if the new overcomes them or if, paradoxically, it proposes them again. The first contradiction of the old law is that the majority prize appeared to be unmanageable, i.e. it appeared by its very nature to violate those constitutional conditions which must support the use, precisely, of a majority prize. Meanwhile, there was a huge novelty in Porcellum. Within the constitutional logic that supported the model of proportional law from which we come, the law that could assume a majority prize (even with the so-called scam law proposed by the De Gasperi government at the beginning of the fifties) trusted in a majority prize that was precisely a majority prize. Once demonstrated by one or more political forces to have a majority plus one of the citizens, the majority prize allowed a smooth parliamentary path for governments. Instead, with the Porcellum we give a prize that helps to make majority, that is something radically different, a prize that allows the formation of a majority that is not that exit from the ballot box. Is this new majority prize anchored to Italicum a majority prize or is it a prize that allows the majority to be such? It is three times more so because, while setting a ceiling (today of 37, maybe tomorrow of 40%) it does not solve the underlying problem, also because it goes along with a contradiction of fact, linked to the circumstance that fewer people go to vote and a contradiction de iure, because having combined us with the majority prize even the double turn, we go to weaken further the assessment of a criterion of shared representativeness. In order to understand what this aspect of paradoxes means, it must be said that they are precisely reasonings where starting from false premises one arrives at coherent conclusions or starting from true premises one arrives at inconsistent conclusions. In recent years we have proceeded by paradoxes: we have equipped ourselves with a majority system where there was no possibility of having primary by law and we have equipped ourselves with proportional systems where there was no element of preference; we have always put ourselves in a position to never allow the citizen to really choose who his representatives should be. Then there is a second paradoxical element: this law should help us to overcome the other difficulty that was said to be characteristic of the Porcellum, that is to say the possibility that there was the perfect conjugation of the principle of representation with that of governability. It was said that Porcellum had pushed too far, that is, in favor of the aspect of governability, that contradiction, but it remains in Italycum and indeed strengthened and confirmed in the fact that even those who have cultivated the possibility of mutual recognition of majority and opposition through the so-called pact of the Nazzaren, today expose themselves to extreme risk. At the time when the majority prize will be given to the list, simply with the double turn and with the other elements already declared before, it will be impossible to form an opposition in this country. In other words, we will have legislative instruments that, by awarding the majority prize and giving it to a single party, will in fact make it impossible to create political configurations that are not those of a large trunk under which there are bushes who are happy to surrender themselves to the law of the strongest because they are unable to produce a political alternative. This will be more difficult precisely in the context of the so-called Right Center, where the positions that, if hypothetically could find a reasonable element of coexistence in a coalition, can never be found in a single party. Let us not forget that the only party, through the results achieved by the ongoing reform of the Constitution, will be a single party that not only chooses its representatives, but makes them choose only one, further increasing the degree of contradiction. That is precisely why I would like us to look at those amendments, which seem to be useful correctives to what has been done so far, first of all of all those amendments, or that amendment, which can make us think about mitigating the contradictory aspect created by the blocked capillist mechanism. My friends, which of the contradictions have we overcome at the moment when, reproaching the Porcellum for pointing out all the elements, we put in place a mechanism that, regardless of how one thinks about preferences or not, simply makes the party secretariats choose, once again, those who really compose Parliament? In fact, only a party that passes 20% will have elected with the preference vote. In this case, if previously the Porcellum could make to recognize the crime of fraud against the elector, the Italicum makes to recognize the crime of circumvention of unable of the eligible, because even those parties that have obtained the 3% must explain to me what the advantage would be, since they ask to be part of a list to people who mathematically cannot be elected. Therefore, they surrender themselves to reduced oligarchies, which, moreover, make the real mechanism of democratic alternation impossible. Precisely because of the persistence of these serious contradictions, where there were amendments which might be more reasonably entrusted in the form of a single national college the possibility of identifying 25% of the candidates, as Mr Corsini of the Democratic Party asked, through a mechanism of appointment, while others can be left to a vote of preference, this would be more respectful of the constitutional dictation. Alongside this, however, the problem of the prize to the party remains enormous and contradictory, combined with the choice of the passage through a double vote, i.e. a vote of the second round. But in this case too, there are amendments which say that one can choose to appear in the second round by mitigating, again in this case, the contradictions that come from the reading done so far in the Commission. Of course, there is a problem that is added to the paradoxical reading that I have made of this bill: if an amendment were tabled by colleagues who have found a way of keeping together the needs of the main party secretariats and, at the time when we go to the vote, before any other one we would vote on that (i.e. an amendment that, tabled by Members, would not in turn be amendable), we would be faced with the extreme passage on electoral law in the form of a vote of confidence, making once again impossible even the work of reflection, which has been done in the Commission and then bypassed from being the measure arrived in a sudden way in this House. This would in fact put an end to the possibility of finding a shared content, which would actually be shared only by those who want to force the debate on electoral law; and this time it would be possible to ask the reason for the forcing. That is why my invitation to all colleagues is to converge on a package of amendments that will allow us to overcome the most obvious apories of this law and to give our country a simple law, which safeguards the principle of representation and governance and the right of our fellow citizens to really choose who should represent them. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI) and LN-Aut.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u63	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. Before giving him the floor, however, I would urge him to keep his speech within the time allowed so that the speeches at the end of the sitting can be carried out. I therefore call upon Senator Tosato to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u64	Madam President, I believe that the debate on this electoral law is as always paradoxical because, if we had read the text that came out of the Commission, we would not have started with the arguments discussed so far. It is clear that the law that will emerge from this branch of Parliament will by no means be the law that has been deposited in the Commission, which has not yet found a final procedure, because it has arrived in the Chamber without a single amendment being voted on and without the debate having actually outlined the real electoral law that will come out of this House. These are the first paradox and the first absurdity to which this Government and the President of the Council have now accustomed us. Another paradoxical situation is the urgency with which the President-in-Office of the Council wanted to frame the measure at the end of December, while Minister Boschi said in this House that in any case this electoral law will be useful in 2018, when it comes to the natural expiry of the mandate or if something does not go as planned by the Government, possibly in 2016. There would therefore have been plenty of time to discuss the draft law in depth and correctly, according to the procedure provided for by this Parliamentary institution. Of the two: or these dates are fake and the reality is that instead the President of the Council is in a hurry to adopt an electoral law to go to the vote in May, given the free fall of his electoral consent or the urgency is determined by his usual propagandistic attitude, which has the need to continuously sell to the public the approval of reforms. These reforms, however, are usually empty, useless, made more of words than of substance, which have absolutely no bearing on the lives of our citizens, our territories and our people. This is the constant, which we have been used to for months now, since the beginning of the mandate of the President-in-Office of the Council. The law we are debating is yet another deception, yet another mockery of voters; first of all, when it is said that at last we will know who will rule this country with the majority prize: in reality, the President of the Council forgets that the current electoral law already provides the House with a majority prize; therefore it substantially changes little, if not the way in which it is awarded. It also forgets that there is a debate on the future of the Senate that is absolutely uncertain, and that it will be nobody's land because it is not known whether we will vote in May this year - as I think likely - after the adoption of that law, and therefore what will be the future of the Senate - by which law will we vote it? - or the fate of the next legislature. This is one of the inconsistencies and absurdities: we start with an electoral law only for one of the two chambers, without knowing the overall institutional structure of the two branches of Parliament currently existing. The other deception, perhaps the worst and the most annoying, because it is not addressed simply to Members and senators but to all voters, is that of preferences. The President of the Council solemnly declared that with this electoral law the representatives of the citizens will finally be elected by their vote, with a precise choice and a precise preference, which can be placed on the ballot. Too bad that, with the system of capilists, most Members will, in fact, always be elected through the usual system, that is, the indication of the leaders of the parties, who will be able to fix a hundred capilists and, in fact, return to appoint the entire Chamber of Deputies, if not a small part, only for those parties that will eventually go to the ballot with the award of the majority prize. We are therefore certain that most of the future Members will always be elected by the usual method, by the deception and illusion that will be given to the citizens, however, to be able to put a preference, which will then prove completely useless. It is clear that all parties that will not reach 20% will not have elected through preferences, but the citizen will have been given the illusion that he has been able to elect his own representatives. Well, this is a real scam, a real deception perpetrated against the voters. They are given the illusion of being able to choose, they are deceived and in fact the leader of the party, as always, decides the elected ones also with a system that makes their relationship with the voters different. With the proportional system all were elected with proportional representation; with the current system of the allocation of seats through a list indicated by the parties, questionable from my point of view, and good or bad you knew the rules of the game. In this electoral law there will be a paradoxical situation in which the leader will certainly be elected and hardly even have to campaign. It will be elected because it is indicated from above and there will be contestants, candidates who will have to be elected with preferences, who will also be able to make the best campaign, collect many consensus among voters, paradoxically even tens of thousands, and have practically the certainty of not being elected. This whole election campaign will actually prove absolutely useless to them and, above all, more serious, to the voters who will be called to vote. Defining this electoral law Italicum is in my opinion a euphemism, unless you want to assign to this term a negative meaning, as well as the famous Porcellum, which certainly has flaws but which, in the face of this affair and proposal, I think maybe was more honest in relations with the citizens. It was said what it was and did not give false illusions to the electoral citizens. It is also paradoxical the debate on the barrier thresholds: until a few months ago I remember that all parties, especially those of majority and substantial that have signed the Nazarene Pact (the Democratic Party and Forza Italia), believed that the barrier threshold should be raised and, instead, in a mysterious way, in recent times it has been necessary to lower this threshold even to 3%, lower than the current threshold. This happened because everyone's interests had to be brought together, but above all those of the President-in-Office, who wants an electoral law that gives his party the opportunity to win without allies, to be able to impose the candidates by giving the bone to the ally on duty, who is the New Right Centre, with the lowering of the threshold to 3%. In practice it is as if Renzi said that he will rule alone and still give the possibility to the faithful ally of these months to aspire to reach 3% and have some elected in Parliament. It is also annoying for this House to see the timing of the adoption of this text. It is known that in December the President-in-Office of the Council, with his hand, put in a tax decree a rule that substantially provides for impunity for tax crimes of up to 3%. First it was mysterious the motivation that led to the inclusion of this rule in that decree; then there was the recognition of the paternity of the President of the Council and the decision to postpone every decision to February. Why did this happen? Why was this script recited like this? It is very simple: what is happening from now until February? There are substantial things: the election of the President of the Republic, the approval of this electoral law, the approval of the reform on the Senate and these are the test benches on which it will prove whether the Nazarene pact stands or not. These are the evidence to show whether Forza Italia accepts the diktat of the President of the Council to approve these norms, not to interfere with the election of the President of the Republic and perhaps, therefore, in February, he will be able to obtain confirmation of the norm he wrote. It is evident in the timing and in the way we are not facing a high debate on electoral law, which has no relevance and respect for the right of voters to choose their own representatives. It is only a sort of political agreement that is signed and confirmed between Renzi and Berlusconi, in the face of all the democratic considerations that should be the basis of a good electoral law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It is the shame of this debate and I believe that the sooner this sterile theater is finished and it is said by the President-in-Office of the Council, and the better for everyone. Then we will begin to face the real problems of the country, which are very serious, underestimated and faced with which the irony of the President of the Council on all the events that concern us is completely out of place and begins to give some annoyance. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u65	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u68	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, today is the centenary of the violent and tragic earthquake that devastated the Marsica, an event that unfortunately caused more than 30,000 victims, which devastated and destroyed entire territories. It seemed right to me that this House too had a moment to remember so many victims and still try to send out a message, as institutions. If it is true that earthquakes cannot be predicted, it is true that there can be some kind of environmental prevention and some kind of prevention for building safety in general. So there are ceremonies in place, which want to remember this sad event and, of course, once again, to raise awareness of this Government as well. We remember in fact the earthquake of the Eagle and the recent one in Emilia-Romagna: unfortunately our Apennine dorsal is at high seismic risk and therefore, at this moment, we cannot underestimate these phenomena, just to avoid the repetition of such disastrous consequences. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u71	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this House must pay tribute to Francesco Rosi, a great director, as well as an intellectual, engaged in the political and civil battles of this country, who failed last weekend. He was awarded for high merits by the Presidency of the Republic and has collected countless prizes, from Palma d'oro to David di Donatello. I believe that his films, which have told the scandals, the mafia and the interweaving of mafia, politics and business, are still very topical. I therefore hope that the members of this House - I am referring to the members who refer to its political and cultural area, but not only to them - will see again his films, starting with "Le mani sulla città" (Hands on the City), which recounts the speculation of buildings, between mafia policy and business, from "Il caso Mattei" (The Mattei Case), which recounts the death of Enrico Mattei, still mysterious, until "Dimenticare Palermo" (Forget Palermo), which was broadcast on television just the other night. These are mafia and political events, which I believe are still relevant and live in our country. I therefore believe that even in an empty Chamber, Parliament must pay tribute to him and his work and hope that cinema will not die. Rosi's great ability was definitely acquired thanks to his important collaborations with Emmer, Zampa and Visconti. Today, this profession that is transmitted by working, from teacher to student, is becoming increasingly impoverished. I therefore think that our task is to carry out the battles told by Rosi and also to keep alive a fundamental cultural industry, such as the Italian film industry. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Campanella, De Cristofaro and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u74	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I too would like to recall Francesco Rosi and I think that perhaps another opportunity would have been appropriate to allow this House to remember a figure like his, which belongs not only to the entire culture of our country, but to our civil conscience and our democratic commitment. I think that we really have a duty in this House to remind Francesco Rosi first of all of the powerful and powerful attempt, through the language of his images, of the denunciation that wants to awaken moral conscience and political conscience. His entire filmography is an attempt to find the truth that is also at the basis of the history of our nation, through images and stories that evoke important titles only to mention them: "The challenge", "Salvatore Giuliano", "Men vs." (I remember the link with a writer as important as Emilio Lussu and the madness of war), "The case Mattei", "Excellent cadaveri" (I remember the bond with the civil writing of Leonardo Sciascia), "Christ stopped at Eboli" (also here in relation to the civil writing of our country), "Three Brothers". In all these titles, the southern issue and its strict southernism also emerge: it has always placed the southern one as a great national issue. He began, as a boy, giving life to Naples, in the atmosphere that formed a new ruling class linked to anti-fascism, the magazine "Sud" which between 1945 and 1947 saw among the editors characters such as Anna Maria Ortese, Luigi Compagnone, Domenico Rea, Pasquale Prunas, of course Raffaele La Capria and also Vasco Pratolini. I also remember the friendship in those years, which will be fruitful throughout the course of life, with our President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano. To conclude, I would like to mention his most important film, in the opinion of many, which is "Hands on the City." I think that film, more than fifty years ago, contains a very strong warning: the building speculation that already devastated, not only beautiful cities of our Italy, but with those cities also entire existences, because the quality of our life is intimately linked to the quality of the neighborhoods in which we live. That speculation is the great failure of this Republic of ours. The wounds of those peripheries - today we know - are something to be restored in order to give concrete impetus to the hope of so many who live on the margins today. I think that the movie "Hands on the city" should be included in the curricula of our compulsory school and that in the eighth grade all children should be able to see it, because that movie and those images are worth much more than so many smoky courses of political education or civic education. With this wish I really want to pay tribute to this great Italian. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u75	The Presidency is associated with this homage and with the mourning for the disappearance of Francesco Rosi, a great master of cinema, and also with the admiration for his art, animated by an intense civil passion, as has been pointed out by recalling some significant passages of his production. Francesco Rosi was the protagonist, along with others, as he recalled, of a cinematography that I believe has contributed in a very profound and very significant way in the post-war period to form the democratic conscience of the country and also to indicate the reasons for everyone's commitment to participate in the construction of the Republic and its values. It is, therefore, a great disappearance and we hope that other young people will take over the witness of a film and cultural production that we need so much today.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u78	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, today in Arzano, in the province of Naples, there has been a demonstration of some workers from a company that has failed, the New Sinter Spa. It is a company that has a history of excellence, a past in which the company produced automotive engine components. So among his clients were Fiat, Peugeot, Citroën and others. This is a story, I think, now Italian. We have tabled a parliamentary question, urging the Minister for Labour, the Minister for Economic Development and the Minister for Justice. This question, which I would now like to ask, is No 4-03113 of 3 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Undersecretary Pizzetti is requested to take note. PUGLIA (M5S). Maybe I'll give it to her later. Thank you, Madam President. Good, bad. We are faced with a case, which I have specified in a rather detailed way within the question, so it seems that this company has been deliberately put into bankruptcy and deliberately crushed. This is a typical case where there are excellent companies, which are made to fail and then sell them at a low price and maybe delocalize them. Stop! It's no longer possible. There are 120 families, in an already martyred territory, that of Arzano. So, please take note, Mr. Undersecretary, and act promptly. Today, at this point, I also make another reminder: I take the question and send it directly to the Campania Region, of course to the competent councillors of economic development and work, because I see that they are not moving either. I would also ask the Presidency to urge the relevant ministries to ensure that this question is finally met. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u79	We are lucky to have the undersecretary Pizzetti, who usually attends the end of our work and who is a very efficient means of the requests of the individual senators. So I realize he's gonna do it today.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-373.ana.u80	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.28 a.m.
