ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 3 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u4	I communicate that on December 4, 2015 the following bill was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister for Economic Development and the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 859-1357-1378-1484-1553-B, already approved by the Senate in a text resulting from the unification of the own-initiative drafts of Senators Scilipoti Isgrò; Falanga; Moscardelli and others; Stucchi; Ginetti; and modified by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Cucca, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u6	Madam President, I would like to give you the written text of my report if I were to abuse the time available to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u7	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u8	CUCCA, rapporteur. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the text of the new rules on road murder returns to this House, after the House of Deputies has been approved, which has made a number of changes which I will try to illustrate briefly. Article 1, paragraph 1, inserts in the penal code the crime of street murder through which it is punished, as a guilt - this element remained even after the examination in the Chamber, after countless discussions on which we had extended even in the Senate during the first examination - with the imprisonment (of different entities due to the degree of the fault itself) the driver of motor vehicles whose imprudent conduct constitutes cause of the fatal event. For systematic reasons - this is the main novelty - the text Camera has moved in the new article 589- bis, first paragraph, the case of manslaughter committed with violation of the rules on road traffic (the penalty remains that of imprisonment from two to seven years), already provided for by article 589, second paragraph, of the penal code. For coordination, in Article 3, this case is expounded from the second paragraph of Article 589 which, therefore, in the remaining part, now concerns the only manslaughter committed in breach of the rules on the prevention of accidents at work. Article 589-a, second and third paragraphs, essentially confirming the text approved by the Senate, thus punishes, with the imprisonment of eight to twelve years, the manslaughter of manslaughter committed by drivers of a motor vehicle if it is in a state of serious alcoholic drink (with an alcohol content exceeding 1.5 grams per litre) or psychophysical alteration resulting from the intake of narcotics or psychotropic substances, or if they are in a state of alcoholic drink with alcohol rates exceeding 0.8 grams per litre or psychophysical alteration resulting from the intake of narcotic or psychotropic substances, in the case of specific categories of drivers (e.g. those who carry out professionally the transport of persons and things, drivers of motor vehicles with a full mass trailer exceeding 3.5 tonnes, bus drivers and others). In essence, these are those commonly called "zero tolerance" categories. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u9	Senator, I'm sorry, but I'm having a hard time following you first. I really ask everyone in this House to lower their voices, otherwise it is difficult for the rapporteur to speak, but also for the senators to listen. If possible, release the hemicycle. Please continue, Senator Cucca.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u10	On the other hand, it is punished with the penalty of imprisonment from five to ten years (the Senate text previously provided for a minimum of seven years) the manslaughter committed by drivers of a motor vehicle in the following cases: if they are in a state of alcoholic drink with an alcohol content greater than 0,8 milliliters but not more than 1,5 grams per litre; if they have exceeded specific speed limits in an urban centre or even on extra-urban roads; if they have crossed red traffic intersections or have circulated counterhand; if they have carried out manoeuvres to reverse the direction of travel in proximity or at intersections, curves or bumps; if they have finally made dared overtakings (surpass of another means at a pedestrian crossing or continuous line). The last two hypotheses were introduced during the examination in the Chamber, thus coordinating Article 589 with similar forecasts for injuries in Article 590-a. I would like to point out that these are the cases which statistically produce a larger number of victims following road accidents. In all the above cases the sentence has decreased until half when the traffic homicide, although characterized by the conduct in question, is also a consequence of a manslaughter of the victim. The corresponding prediction of the Senate text on the point had a broader formulation, previewing that the penalty was diminished up to half in the hypothesis in which the event was not exclusive consequence of the action or omission of the culprit, thus understanding, for the purposes of the application of the diminuente, also the arsonous conducts of the victim and the manslaughter or arson of third parties. On the other hand, the penalty has increased - and this provision has also been introduced by the Chamber - if the actor of the offence has not obtained the licence, if the licence is suspended or revoked or has not insured his motor vehicle (on the assumption, therefore, that the offence is committed to the driving of a vehicle owned). The last paragraph of the new article 589- bis provides, in accordance with the Senate text - in case the driver causes the death of more people or the death of one or more persons and the injuries of one or more persons - the application of the penalty that should be imposed for the most serious of the violations committed increased up to three times; the maximum limit is set in eighteen years. This last paragraph reproduces the provisions of the fourth paragraph of Article 589 of the Criminal Code (with the difference that the current maximum penalty limit is fifteen years). Finally, Article 1 of the draft law introduces Article 589-b into the penal code, which bears a specific aggravating circumstance in the event that the driver, who is responsible for a manslaughter, has fled. This has been one of the most discussed issues and still presents considerable technical problems. In this case, the penalty has increased from a third to two thirds (therefore there has been an increase compared to the text dismissed by the Senate) and can not, however (this is the novelty introduced) be less than five years. It is recalled that the offence involving the escape of the driver after an accident involving damage to persons is currently provided for in Article 189 of the Road Code. In relation to this case, therefore, the one referred to in Article 589-b would constitute a complex criminal offence within the meaning of Article 84 of the Criminal Code. Article 2 of the proposed law regulates, with the reworded article 590- bis of the penal code, the crime of personal road injuries, and introduces three further articles in the penal code. The various cases of the crime referred to in Article 590-a appear almost entirely speculative to those of Article 589-a, which introduces road murder. In essence, the crime of road injuries is introduced. Here too, as in the case of road murder in relation to Article 589-b, the Chamber has, for systematic reasons, moved the case of personal injury with violation of the rules on road traffic by introducing a series of modulations of the sentence according to the severity of the injuries. I avoid bringing them back for reasons of time economy. The penalty, therefore, is the imprisonment from one year and six months to three years for serious injuries and from two to four years for serious injuries when the injuries result from the same violation of the road code identified by Article 589- bis for road murder. These are injuries caused by drivers of alcoholic beverages with an alcohol content exceeding 0,8 but not exceeding 1,5, by drivers operating at speeds equal to or greater than twice the permitted speed or at least 70 km/h in an urban centre or at least 50 km/h higher than the maximum permitted speed on extra-urban roads. In essence, it reproduces the same cases which were reported in Article 589- bis of the penal code and which are also reported speculatively in Article 590-a, including all those cases which, as regards injuries, had already been approved, in the Commission to the Senate, while the one relating to the circulation counterhand, of the overtaking near a crossroads had been removed and had instead been expunged following an amendment approved in the Assembly, they were instead reintroduced in the Chamber but with a different articulation of the penalties. The last paragraph of the new Article 590- bis provides, in case the driver causes injuries to more than one person, the application of the penalty that should be imposed for the most serious of the violations committed, increased up to three times, with the maximum limit of seven years, also this speculate at 589-a. There was already a limit laid down in Article 590 of the Criminal Code, which is, however, less than two years because the maximum was five years. As in road murder, the following Article 590-b introduces a further aggravating circumstance in the event of a driver's escape (the sentence increased from one third to two thirds with a minimum sentence of three years of imprisonment) in the event of personal road injuries. The new article 590-c of the penal code - also introduced by Article 2 of the draft law - substantially reproducing the current article 590-a of the penal code, has a derogation from Article 69 of the penal code in the matter of the calculation of circumstances. The provision provides for the prohibition of equivalence or prevalence of competitors as attenuating circumstances in relation to the aggravating circumstances referred to in Articles 589-a, 589-b, 590-a and 590-b of the Criminal Code. By express regulatory provision, the penalty reductions due to mitigating circumstances (not considered to be minusvalent) shall be applied to the amount of penalty determined in accordance with the aggravating factors themselves. The Chamber of Deputies has also deleted in Article 2 the new article of the penal code, introduced by the Senate, concerning the revocation of the licence. Analoga discipline was then placed, with Article 6, within the road code. Article 590-d, identical to the text dismissed by the Senate, is now the last of the amendments made to the penal code by Article 2 and concerns the definition of urban and extra-urban roads. Article 3 of the draft law presents changes in the coordination of the penal code. Article 157 of the penal code is amended, providing for the doubling of the limitation periods also for the new crime of street murder. Article 582 of the Criminal Code is also amended, increasing the minimum edittal penalty for the crime of personal injury, which is increased from three to six months of imprisonment, but confirming the maximum in three years. As we have already said, the references to the traffic cases of manslaughter referred to in Article 589 of the Criminal Code are also deleted. Article 4 of the draft law introduces amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure concerning perital operations and the co-active collection of biological samples. We have already discussed this issue in the course of the first reading of the measure. Article 5 of the draft law contains amendments to the coordination of the Code of Criminal Procedure aimed at providing for the mandatory arrest in flagrante for the murder of manslaughter on the road and the optional arrest in flagrante for the crime of serious or serious road injury referred to in Article 590- bis of the penal code. It is also expected that new traffic homicide offences and road injuries will be added to those for which it is possible, for the prosecutor, to request for a single time extension of the duration of the preliminary investigations. It is also permitted, for road murder, that the request for referral to trial be filed within 30 days of the date of the closure of the investigation and it is established that between the date of the decree ordering the judgment and the date fixed for the judgment itself no time limit should be longer than sixty days. It also regulates the direct summons before the court in monocratic composition and inserts the personal road injuries among the offences for which the prosecutor carries out the prosecution with the direct summons to judgment, providing that the decree of summons to judgment must be issued within thirty days of the closure of the preliminary investigations and that the date of appearance contained in the decree of summons to judgment must be fixed no later than ninety days from the issue of the decree itself. This is an extremely important rule because it reveals a lot and responds to that demand for justice that is extremely widespread, allowing us to get to the debate in a very fast time without following the normal process of criminal proceedings that sometimes last years and years in this matter. In this way a great deal is revealed and the prosecutor is given the opportunity to proceed very quickly to the definition of the proceedings. Articles 6 and 7 of the measure contain other coordination provisions relating to the rules of the road code and to the jurisdiction of the peace court. With regard to Article 6, the discipline that the Senate had inserted in the penal code in the matter of the revocation of the license in the hypothesis of commission of the crimes referred to in the new articles 589- bis and 590-bis of the penal code is moved to the street code. Article 7 instead provides for the deletion of part of article 4, paragraph 1, letter a), of legislative decree no. 274 of August 28, 2000 (laying down provisions on the criminal jurisdiction of the judge of peace), which at present confers jurisdiction on that honorary judge with regard to proceedings for manslaughter personal injury, limited to the cases prosecutable against a party. The deleted party excludes the attribution to the peace court of proceedings for serious and serious personal injury resulting from violations of the rules on road law where the offender is subject to serious alcoholic beverages or under the influence of narcotic or psychotropic substances. Finally, Article 8 provides for the entry into force of the law on the day following its publication in the Official Journal. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that during the examination in the Commission of the text sent by the House of Members, some of which are of some importance have been highlighted. I believe, however, that they will be dealt with extensively during the general debate by the Members who have spoken. Therefore, I avoid lengthening my exposure, but I just observe that some of them may also have a foundation. I am sure that we will be able to remedy these critical elements, citing them as an example. I quote that of the obligatory arrest in flagrante, that previews paragraph 2 and excludes paragraph 3 of article 589, despite the latter previews a conduct analogous to that referred to in paragraph 2. In both cases the same penalty is provided for, but in the first case compulsory arrest is envisaged, in the second case it is not. I believe that this was an oversight committed by my colleagues in the House because, as I have already said, the whole structure of Article 589, relating to the cases of murder committed in breach of the rules on road traffic, was moved in 589-a. It was probably just a forgetfulness. Another incongruence is given by the part concerning the diminuente. At the Senate we had hesitated a text in my opinion that was exhaustive, as it provided for the minor to be applied to the person responsible for an event in which others had contributed to the determination. Instead, today, as I said earlier, we are talking exclusively about the victim's behavior, so excluding any arson behavior of the victim, as well as the arson or manslaughter of third persons. Let me give an example for everyone: that of the tamponing of a car driven by a drunk person, who then kills someone. In this case there is clearly the event produced by the cooperation of third parties. This has not been foreseen in the current text. Another problem that has arisen, and to which I believe we will be in a position to remedy, is that of inconsistencies in the suspension of the licence. Moving the system into the road code and making it an administrative sanction, it happens that it has to coordinate the text of the new law with the current text of the road code, which provides that licences issued in Europe can be suspended for a maximum of three years, thus clearly determining an incongruity to which it will be necessary to remedy. However, it is absolutely essential to point out that it is extremely important to reach the adoption of this measure as quickly as possible. This measure, when approved, will finally respond to a demand for justice that is widespread among the people and not only, as some have intended to make them believe, only among the people who have unfortunately been tragically affected in their loved ones as a result of the events envisaged by the legislation under consideration. Since they are widely and authoritatively represented in this House, I should like to express an affectionate thought of solidarity, as well as sincere thanks for their cooperation and support throughout the legislative process. We hope that this cooperation and contribution will be returned with the rapid final approval of the text. But I think we can now say that we are very close to the final goal. However, we can say, I say this with great serenity, that a commitment had been made, first by the President-in-Office of the Council and then by all of us. In fact, I want to stress that, regardless of the political color and membership of one party rather than another, everyone has worked closely together to draw up and approve this measure. This commitment is about to be honored. Finally, I would like to highlight something I had already proposed at the first reading in this House. The adoption of the new legislation is extremely important, but it certainly cannot be enough, nor must we stop or be content with a new sanctioning system, certainly stricter and more suitable to respond effectively to that need for justice which I have just mentioned. The spirit of this legislation is also to have a deterrent and educational effectiveness. I therefore believe that it is essential that a new way of assessing the issues discussed should be developed. It is essential to acquire the idea that when driving a vehicle you must be aware that you have in your hands a weapon that could even be lethal to victims most of the time absolutely blameless. Therefore, the driver must always have self - control, enabling him to master the vehicle. Those who drive should not drink and those who drink should not drive. This simple principle, which is extremely widespread outside Italy, must be made by each of us. I believe that this result can only be achieved through an effective education campaign, both in schools of every order and grade and through the media. In addition, it will be necessary at last to implement a strict prevention by the Forces of Order, to which I believe the means and the men must be assured to carry out rigorous controls, so that this new system can produce the effects that we want, that we are sure can be produced by the new legislation. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u11	The Presidency also supports the greeting of the families of the victims here.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u12	We greet the students and the students of the Secondary School of First Degree (Ferrajolo-Capasso) in Acerra di Napoli. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u13	I declare that a question has been referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Caliendo to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u14	Madam President, I would like to address the Secretary because we are discussing and discussing reforms that affect substantive criminal law. I hope the government takes an initiative... (The Undersecretary Ferri converses with two senators). However, I would like the Government to listen to me and I would like the Government to be an active part of the process of forming the law, in order to examine in depth the amendments tabled. We are in a system that - as has been denounced by several parties - does not correspond to the common feeling of this House. This measure comes from two legislative initiatives - the first two, then others - presented by two Senators of the PdL; then there was also a proposal for a law by the Democratic Party: this is a problem warned by everyone. It is true that in 2006 and 2008 we introduced amendments to Article 589 of the Criminal Code, which reduced murders on the roads by more than two thirds. But that is not enough, because there were still 3,000 victims of road accidents in 2013. Then I can't accept the idea of not arguing. We have seen the text of the House - Mr Secretary, you have been present at the debate in the Commission - on which a number of specific technical observations have been raised. I have to say to the rapporteur that it is his goodness that only Article 589-b and the other indications that have emerged have been mentioned, in order to say that a correction was needed and would have to be made. Faced with this, he fears and even rumors of trust. Mr Secretary, I appeal to the President-in-Office of the Council through you: it is not possible to proceed in this way in criminal matters, because we are discussing criminal rules which must be looked at from a technical point of view. Senator Caliendo didn't tell him, but the Committee on Constitutional Affairs unanimously told him about this part of Parliament. The Constitutional Affairs Committee said: "it is called upon to check whether the new offences introduced by the draft law in title are in line with the canon of reasonableness, which, especially in criminal matters, presupposes - as the Constitutional Court has acknowledged - that the use of legislative discretion meets the principle of proportionality between unlawful and sanctioned." In this respect, the Commission expresses the opportunity to assess the extent of the penalty imposed in the case of road homicide and personal road injuries also in relation to the minimum edittal limits laid down for other cases of manslaughter, such as, for example, the murder committed in breach of the rules on occupational accidents or serious medical misconduct. Furthermore, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, even as observations and not as conditions, with regard to the driver's flight to which the rapporteur referred (who saw, independently of the vote, the whole of the Commission's justice attentive to this problem), provided for both in the case of road murder and in the case of personal road injuries, unanimously points out that the rule, in both cases, presents profiles of inconsistencies, which could emerge mainly in the application. In fact, in case of escape, an increase of the penalty from a third to two thirds is expected, but at the same time a minimum edittale higher than twice the minimum expected for the crime committed without aggravating. The paradoxical effect of an abnormal and, in any case, proportional to the more serious assumptions, would therefore, in the case of less serious cases, be reduced. This unanimous opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is the last two pages of the question of constitutionality which I have presented, which recalls not only the non-compliance with the principles of proportionality identified by the Constitutional Court in the comparison between the third, fourth and fifth paragraphs, but also the inconsistency of the whole system, most probably also induced by having the Chamber of Deputies wanted to introduce, in the first paragraph of Article 589- bis of the penal code, the repetition of what was already provided for in Article 589, that is the second paragraph. However, I would just ask you to consider that, in the most serious cases, this aggravating factor will lead to an increase in minimum or even cancelled sentences, while in the less serious cases it will lead to a higher increase in penalties. Apart from the fact that, as a special burden compared to the other aggravating factors, we would have the possibility, with Article 69 of the penal code, to increase only one day, what I worry about is that, if we approve the measure as it is, at the first accident, murder, road disaster, a judge will raise the question of constitutional legitimacy. I do not believe that a careful legislator can proceed to adopt a rule when several parties have called for reflection. Look, this is a necessary reflection, because if what I have just said occurs in road murder, do you know what the increase in punishment is, with the application of Article 589-b of the Criminal Code? It's 12 times the penalty. Do you remember any rule, in the matter of the mob or anything else, with which we have ever been able to insert an attack that multiplies twelve times the penalty? In the preliminary question of constitutionality, the Constitutional Court's judgments binding the legislator and the legislative discretion on the proportionality of the sanction were recalled. In accordance with Article 589- bis, the last period - as the rapporteur has pointed out - we had foreseen that the penalty should be reduced for those who caused the road accident, if it is the responsibility of others. The House has changed not the responsibility of others, but only that of the victim. Do you realize that if, hypothetically, one makes a car accident and there are responsibilities for two others who have caused the accident, even at 60% or 70% of responsibility, there is no reduction in penalty? This is completely absurd and not consistent with constitutional principles. Not to mention the other question raised by the rapporteur, namely that of the provision of compulsory arrest in flagrant cases in the least serious case and not in the most serious case and which requires coordination. Similarly, coordination is necessary for Article 6. What did the House do? Those that the Senate had foreseen as ancillary penalties in the matter of the revocation of the license turned them into administrative sanctions introducing them into the code of the road. What is the consequence? Having only transformed what the Senate had predicted as ancillary punishment into administrative sanctions results in an imbalance due to lack of coordination. Let me give you an example: if I commit a traffic homicide, I will be charged with the administrative penalty for withdrawing my driving licence for 30 years. But if, hypothetically, I have acquired a licence in another State of the European Union or in a non-European State, another rule of the road code applies to me - which has not been touched and which has not been provided for in the coordination - which provides for only three years of suspension of the licence. We are talking about thirty, in one case, and three years in the other, when the foreigner applies the same rules as the rules governing road traffic that apply to the Italian citizen. Faced with these inconsistencies, in the Commission, President Palma had presented a paper highlighting some of the abominable situations that come out of the new law. One correction was sufficient to achieve perhaps unanimity. We do not understand why we did not have the opportunity to pass any amendments; there was no discussion and there is even a rumor of confidence. But why? We have the opportunity to do something serious and to take account of rules which have their dignity and which correspond to constitutional principles. In that case we would finally have a law voted unanimously with that ability to deter those who put themselves in the driving of a car and who, first of all, should be educated. One of the issues is road education by citizens, who should be educated not to drive a vehicle if they are drunk or have used drugs for the consequences that may arise. Only a law with strong consent can have an effective deterrent that is not achieved by majority shots. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u15	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a representative per group may intervene on the question referred for a preliminary ruling for no more than ten minutes. Since no one is asking to speak, we shall proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1. Verification of the Barani quorum (AL-A). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 859-1357-1378-1484-1553-B PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Caliendo and other senators. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u16	Madam President, I believe that what we are holding this afternoon is a debate on a serious and complex subject, which probably deserved more in-depth examination and not the rather hasty nature that it will have, let alone the imposition (at least in the course of these minutes) of the issue of trust. Frankly, it seems to us to be a wrong way of dealing with this measure, which, on the other hand, would have deserved from the Senate Assembly (which examines it at second reading after the move to the House) a debate characterized by greater complexity, if I may say so, because at least from our point of view we believe that there are two principles to be safeguarded in this debate. On the one hand, there is certainly the necessity... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u17	Colleagues, is it at least possible that we do not scream under the benches of the Presidency and also in the benches of the House? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u18	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I wanted to say that we should have at least two particular points: on the one hand, that we should put in place an effective sanctioning regime, and, on the other hand, that we should actually be able to produce legislation on a subject such as this; and on the other hand, that we should avoid legislation on the basis of emotion, even if it is not easy to do so when we are discussing such a significant issue. Of course, emotion is important, because we are talking about concrete issues and people in the flesh who have lost their lives in dramatic cases of road accidents regulated by the bill under consideration. However, there is also the need, from our point of view, for the legislator to always bear in mind, to address the discussions - even the most difficult and related to issues of social alarm or, in any case, of great complexity and protection against a victim - with that level of impartiality and even coldness, if I may use this expression, which is the best way to put in place appropriate legislation. I do not believe (I never believe this, compared to any kind of measure, so I do not believe it even today) that the legislator can legislate simply on the basis of an emotional attitude. I would therefore also like to refer to a number of points which I have also heard in this debate, some of which were summarized a few days ago in the same opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the consultative session. This Commission, while approving a non-obstacle opinion, has, however, put in place some critical elements which, from our point of view, would have deserved a more serious examination of what we are going to do, just as some of the issues raised by the Bar or other parties would have deserved more in-depth examination. The first observation is based on statistics on the number of road accident deaths that, as we know (or perhaps not know), in the last quarter of the century has increased from 6.621 in 1990 to 3.385 in 2013, thus showing a very significant decrease. We are therefore talking about a tragic phenomenon which, fortunately, over the course of these years has presented at least one element of reversal of the trend, which makes us think that probably some of the measures taken, particularly those in the field of prevention, have worked. The first consideration of doubt and dissent is therefore the following: we have the strong impression that the measure under consideration is much less the use of prevention and, on the contrary, much greater the use of the sentence. Already this would be a serious subject of reflection because instead - and I insist on this aspect - the concrete experience with which we have measured ourselves in these fifteen years and all the statistics at our disposal tell us the opposite, that is, show that in our country the number of road accidents has decreased first because a preventive operation has been positively put in place and because it has imagined to face the problem in this way. I would also like to make a second point. Are we so convinced that elevating the pain in such a meaningful way does not cause a dramatic perverse effect? For example, it could happen that in the face of the prospect of the application of a very severe penalty, the cases in which drivers adopt those behaviors that unfortunately often occur, such as the escape or the omission of rescue (we read of them many times in the newspapers the dramatic chronicles). Of course we hope that this will not happen, but the legislator must ask himself about these cases and it is not that he can pretend anything about the concrete facts that might occur. I therefore feel that I can say that perhaps this is something that we should have paid more attention to. Again. Are we so convinced that raising, not so much the maximum penalty, as the threshold of the minimum penalty and therefore greatly reducing the discretion of the judge - and we will verify it in a few years when we are going to study the statistics of the twentieth years - will result in an improvement in the situation? Will it not happen that even this impossibility of the judge to use the element of discretion will risk becoming a very serious problem with which we will have to confront? I think these issues should have been seen by this House - let me say so - a little less demagogy and a little more in-depth. It is also because, Madam President, we in Italy are not today faced with particularly different and less stringent legislation than that applied in other European countries; we already have legislation in Italy which, of course, already provides for a series of aggravating and, in some cases, even very severe penalties, and which nevertheless attempts, on such a delicate and complex matter, not to escape a general principle which should always be at the heart of our legislative initiative, namely the proportionality of the penalty. This is not secondary in our debate today, but - I repeat - it should be the centre of our initiative. The proportionality of the sentence is the cornerstone of a balanced legal system that works. I think that, in the face of the so high penalties provided for in the measure before us, it becomes very complex to imagine the sanctions that should be imposed on other types of crime on the basis of the same mechanism of proportionality. I think that today, on this specific issue, the House should have paid more attention, just as the House of Deputies should have done before and the Senate itself before, on the occasion of the first reading of the measure under consideration. I think precisely that, because of this, there is a risk that, when the first trials are celebrated when the legislation actually enters into force, it will be put back to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, stopping the process itself, with the brilliant result that we will have done this very demagogic operation to give answers to those who rightly ask them, because relative or family member of the victims of the streets - they are people who have every right to ask for stringent legislation - but these answers will risk to clash dramatically before possible future declarations of unconstitutionality. Finally, I would like to make a final general point, which is not just about road murder, but more generally about how we deal with the issues that cause social alarm: this applies to road murder, home theft and any kind of crime that can actually generate an alarm element. Those who look at the matter from the outside, those who do not do the parliamentarians like us, but the opinionist or any person who looks at the work of this House for the last two and a half years, might say that there is too much schizophrenia in what we do. Parliament, in these two and a half years, has, on the one hand, carried out a series of initiatives, in particular from the Torreggiani judgment onwards, in order to reduce the application of the prison, with the interventions on testing, on alternative prison sentences, the measures that imagine the prison as an extreme ratio and not as an immediate solution. All this goes towards an idea that prison must not be the only possible response to a social problem and alarm. This Parliament itself, which has said these things over the last two years - in my view rightly - then acts as if the left hand does not know what the right hand is doing: Parliament itself, which approves the rules on testing and alternative penalties, then tightens the penalties - not simply in this measure, but as a general course of action - in a very serious way, passing the idea that the only way to solve social problems is in prison. I invite you to conclude, Senator De Cristofaro. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). I'm finishing, Madam President. Let me therefore have a very strong doubt about this political and cultural approach. My group wanted and wants to express these elements of dissent, some very limited and others more general and above all would have wanted a free debate. Even if, on a measure such as this, which concerns criminal law and justice, which should see even a cross-cutting dimension in this House's judgment, confidence is placed, as if it were a problem of minorities and majorities, I am sorry, Madam President, I think that we are not really there and that this is the wrong approach to discussing such a serious issue as what we are talking about. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-AEcT Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u19	Senator Palma is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u20	Madam President, a few days from now, with the adoption of the measure under consideration, we will have the chance to read the usual hashtag, but I would like to remind you that President Renzi had to launch a similar hashtag after the introduction of the law on corruption, in which we had strongly criticized, for technical reasons, the fake in the budget. A few days later, the Supreme Court gave us exactly the right, saying that the innovation, the good time on the fake budget, was not acceptable. In the present case, on the other hand, "the good time" is still a law full of errors, but mainly full of constitutional wounds, which will make it immediately inapplicable and the hashtag "the good time" will be reduced to a mere, cynical propaganda commercial, however with reference to a problem around which there are and there will be the tragedies of men. I would like to ask the Democratic Party when this political schizophrenia of yours will end: in the Senate you dismiss laws that you completely overturn in the House, with outcomes that are not, I must tell the truth, often lucky. Everyone remember the decree-law on feminicide, which we were forced to vote here in the Senate because the term expired, although there were clear technical errors. I imagine you will all remember the bill on torture, approved here unanimously or almost, upset in the House and now lying, I do not know why, waiting in the Justice Commission. Everyone remember what happened to the House about the prescription: you can't move forward because there is no agreement between the majority forces. Then I happened to remember a few days ago another law passed here unanimously - or almost - that has been lying for a year and nine months in the Chamber of Deputies, despite a law that concerns an important theoretical problem, the entry and exit of the magistrates; a problem that then so theoretical is not, waited for its practical aspect that we had the opportunity to verify in the Minzolini case. Mr Morani says he has agreed to the changes with Senator Cucca. I clearly do not intend not to believe Mr Morani's words, but at the same time I am bound by my esteem for the professional capacity of Senator Cucca. If that is the situation, I believe that Mr Morani has spoken in Marche, Senator Cucca in Sardinia, and probably they have not understood each other well, because I certainly find it hard to believe that Senator Cucca may have shared the changes that have come to us from the House, so much so that he did not share them, which he correctly mentioned in his report. There are rumors of the maxi amendment or of the confidence. I would not like this major amendment to take up the amendments tabled by Forza Italia because, if this were to happen, I cannot understand the reason why those amendments were not made in the Commission. There has been a wall on the part of the majority and the government: the text must not be touched; I cannot understand the reason why that text is now being touched on, and also by trusting the bill of parliamentary initiative. Not only that, but in putting trust, if in the maxi amendment, as I imagine, there will be changes, it is clear that the shuttle with the House is reopened. If such a shuttle is reopened, what then costs you to correct those two or three points of the clearly unconstitutional law and which, if corrected, would allow the law to be applied punctually and, if incorrect, would lead to immediate exceptions of constitutionality and the suspension of the relative proceedings? I have said all this as a Senator of Forza Italia; and now, if I may, I shall abandon this robe and take over my temporary role as President of the Commission Justice, and as such I will try to make a contribution to dismissing a law that is the best possible, certainly not perfect but that is able to avoid aggression in the constitutional framework, because, if this were to happen, some would have been played by political propaganda and with considerable cynicism on the tragedies of people. The associations will shout victory, say they have achieved the goal except then, at the first arrest of a manslaughter who has fled, realize that this objective will dissolve because those exceptions will be accepted by the Constitutional Court. I know that stenographers are professionally excellent, but I would like to beg them to follow my speech carefully now because, of course, I am speaking to senators who use my courtesy to sit down, but I am speaking so that everything remains in the act, because when, inevitably, what I will say will happen, I don't want anyone to come and say that they didn't know or that no one had told them. Let's begin: the inclusion in the first paragraph of Article 1 of the manslaughter in its original case relegates all other hypotheses, unlike the Senate text, to aggravating circumstances with special effect. The text fired by the Senate, on the other hand, imagined street murder, resulting from the use of drugs, alcohol at excessive speed, as an autonomous figure of crime. In doing so, the House has forgotten that every criminal law must enter the criminal system. You will then see a number of aggravating circumstances with special effect with very high penis. But probably in the House they have forgotten that article 63, paragraph 4 of the penal code provides that in case of several aggravating circumstances with special effect the most serious applies and for all the others the penalty can be increased, even of a day. It is therefore unnecessary to say, as is said at the introduction of Article 589-b of the penal code, that the penalty is increased from one third to two thirds, if the driver is fleeing because in the preceding paragraphs of Article 1 of the bill (except the first, the simple manslaughter) the penalty envisaged (from eight to twelve years or from five to ten years) can be increased in the minimum of even one day. Certainly the evocative effect is remarkable, but it is as remarkable as the paper tigers are. The reality, Mr President and Senators, is that the hypothesis provided for in Article 589-b, i.e. the escape of the driver after the murder, applies only and exclusively to the basic hypothesis: manslaughter by general fault and nothing but that. I would like to reason with you for a moment on this rule, hoping not to fall into technicalism: simple manslaughter following violation of road traffic rules is punished with imprisonment from two to seven years; because of Article 589-b, the expected increase in the event of escape is from one third to two thirds, so, in case of escape from the driver, simple manslaughter is punished with imprisonment from three to about eleven years. Can you explain to me how constitutional is a rule that says that the penalty can not be less than five years if the minimum laid down by law is three years? And you explain to me how it is possible, if you ever wanted to act in interpretative terms, that the same aggravating has theoretically - because I have already told you that it does not have - an amplifying effect of the penalty from a third to two thirds, while for the basic hypothesis, the least serious one, has an amplifying effect from more than half up to two thirds? Again. All this law stems, let us be frank, from the distrust that the magistrates have earned in the application of the law because the current law for manslaughter committed under the effects of drugs or alcohol provides for a sentence of three to ten years. Which is to say that the judges well could inflict penalties of six, seven or eight years in prison instead of always leaving (or almost always and anyway) from the minimum of the sentence. So the legislator, having no confidence in the judge, dramatically increases the penalties for the alcoholic with an alcohol content exceeding 1.5 grams-litre from eight to twelve years and, for the others, from five to ten years. But what is more serious, Madam President, Senators - I would ask you to correct the rule, you are still in time - is that the legislator of the Chamber of Deputies states in clear terms that the penalty may not be less than five years, forgetting that according to the consistent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court - Senator Caliendo said very well - the quantification of the penalty is the judge's responsibility, because he is obliged to adjust the penalty to the crime. To establish that the penalty cannot be less than five years is an unlawful invasion in the field of the judiciary. There is not a single rule in the criminal system that provides for such a corbelleria. Madam President, Senators, we need to tell you clearly what will happen here, because you have time to correct the maxi amendment. Tomorrow Ivan Ivanovico or Gennaro Esposito (little changes me) will kill a person as drunk, they will flee and will be arrested. In the case, perhaps in a very direct judgment, the lawyer will correct the unconstitutionality of the rule with acceptance by the judge, suspension of the proceedings and all that will result. At that moment the victims' associations will understand that they have been mocked. Again, I would like to address you, members of the Senate who are or should be, for reasons of age, the bearer of wisdom. Let's assume that an eighteen-year-old boy who has just been patented, for a general impriety (he doesn't run, doesn't turn around, hasn't drunk, hasn't smoked a joint, goes slowly and doesn't make oversteps), has the misfortune to cause a tragedy (the death of a person is in fact always and in any case a tragedy) and, frightened, he goes on the run and then maybe come back; ladies and gentlemen, do you feel like writing a rule that requires that that that eighteen-year-old boy be inflicted five years in prison, completely ruining his life for a generic fault? We have not been called upon to legislate on this, but at last we have been called upon to legislate for the overcoming of a strong application anomaly, setting adequate minimums and such as to prevent the judges from following the path of goodness, disinteresting themselves to complete the pain and victims of crime. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] You then write the same rule with reference to serious and serious injuries, but do you realize that, as a result of the provision introduced by Article 590-b (beyond the speech of one or two thirds), the penalty, which should be four months due to the increase of a third, in case of escape, becomes three years, that is ten times the minimum? Do you think the Constitutional Court can pass such a rule? The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is certainly not chaired by an opposition senator such as the Justice Commission, has drawn up a long cahier de doléances on the unconstitutionality of this rule (these are observations and not conditions). Among the various observations there was, and could not fail to be, the irrationality of the sanctioning system. How can you imagine keeping such high minima? How could one imagine in the Chamber, forgetting - and I say this for stenographers - article 63, paragraph 4, of the penal code (eight years, ten years, twelve years), when the increase, in case of several special circumstances, can be even one day? What is the point, in the case referred to in the preceding paragraphs, of saying that the sentence is increased from a third to two thirds? It is a propaganda commercial, because the matter is clearly regulated by the penal code, in Article 63, paragraph 4. Still: but what logic assists the prediction that for the alcoholic driver who has drunk is expected to stop in flagency and for the professional driver who has committed the same fact and for which the same penalty is allowed and allowed to stop optionally? But do any of you realize that there is as much unequal treatment as a house? In short, do you realize that Article 3 of our Constitution is not a fetish to be agitated only when it suits us, but it is one of the founding principles of our society and that it cannot be distorted for purely propagandistic reasons? But did you realize in the Chamber of Deputies that, at a time when, unlike what happened to the Senate, you do not consider the revocation and suspension of the licence as an ancillary penalty, which closes your life with the criminal conviction, and instead put it as an administrative sanction, not only do you reopen the doors to judicial scrutiny by the administrative judge, but you clash with the legislation of the street code? But then what logic is there in imagining that an Italian citizen who committed a manslaughter may have his driving licence revoked for ten, fifteen or thirty years and a foreign national, European or otherwise, could not have revoked it for more than three years because, in doing so, the coordination rules have been forgotten in the House? When we in the Commission fired unanimously (I remind everyone) and, I believe, almost unanimously here in this House the previous text, this text was not beautiful; it contained some mistakes, but it was a good text and certainly would not have been attacked at the constitutional level. We said (but it was logical, also because of the penalties) that if a certain fact happens, not only because of the driver, but also because of other faults, the judge, in the quantification of the penalty, must apply a decrease and reduce it to half. This made sense, but - alas - in the Chamber, where some imagine that they could use the red pencil and the blue pencil, they said that this can only be done in the presence of a manslaughter of the victim. If, by hypothesis, there were a malicious course, the decrease to half would not be. But if, by hypothesis, there is the manslaughter of a third, what is the reason why this decrease should not be applied, if the manslaughter of a third has contributed to the cause of the event? But what's the point of writing standards like this? What is the point - Senator Cucca, I am sorry, I know that you shared everything with Mr Morani - of making such an unimaginable series of mistakes? And you're making mistakes about it, but not about the constitutional ones. There are still two other points, Madam President, and then I will finish quickly. A rule that had been removed has been reinserted. The penalty is five to ten years if the driver kills a person as a result of an overtaking at a pedestrian crossing. Gentlemen, the norm, as it is written, says that if I kill a person on the pedestrian crossing and I do not pass, my sentence is from two to seven years and not from five to ten years. I say this in order to make it clear to you, because we are all capable of inflating our mouths of nonsense, but the implementing reality of the criminal court is strictly anchored in Article 1 of the penal code, which is covered constitutionally by Article 25 of the Constitution. What sense does it make to say that the penalty is from five to ten years if there has been a reversal of the march in the vicinity of a bump or a crossroads? And if it happened on a straight, while another car was in overtaking position, the penalty is two to seven years instead of five to ten? Come on, God damn it! When you legislate you pay attention to the rules and the system, trying to solve the problems that a phenomenon may have created. Finally - I believe that this is an amazing gem, especially in these times - the penalty referred to in the previous paragraphs, whatever it is, has increased if the fact is committed - be careful, it takes imagination to write this rule - by a driver driving a car of his own uninsured property. But I mean, I'm sorry, what does it have to do with the car being insured or not being insured in relation to the assessment of the gravity of the fact? The insurance concerns the compensation aspects, the civil aspects. You enter this rule at a time when - and you all know it - as there are many people who do not pay taxes, for necessity, so there are many people who do not pay insurance (then there are also the smart ones, there would be more). But since I did it with a car of my own that is not insured, the penalty must be aggravated. So, to be clear, president. I invite you to conclude, Senator Palma. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I'll finish right away, Madam President. If I buy a car and write it to my son who is five years old, the owner is him; if I walk around there and come across - alas - a tragic event, it is clear that you cannot apply this rule to me. But would it not have been easier to strengthen, if it were the case, the sanctioning rule that already exists for the lack of compulsory insurance? In conclusion, I believe that I am not out of touch with the technique that concerns this measure, but you have the duty, with regard to the family members of the previous victims and those - alas - future, to pack a product that is able to withstand constitutional aggressions and to be effective in terms of application. You have until tomorrow, you can correct these things, and let me say: do not correct only two or three, but all four, because so much the constitutional cleaver arrives everywhere. By doing so for a moment you will not have satisfied the long-awaited people of this provision, but you will probably have passed a more just law, able to be applied and that will finally have to punish, as it is right and in the right quantity, the perpetrators of such crimes. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, PD, LN-Aut, CoR and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u21	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u22	Madam President, how can we fail to share the comments that have been made so far? We have reached the regulatory paradox that the right hand no longer knows what the left hand does. The normative contradiction has become the rule and, as in the fairy tale of the naked king, it is also pretended not to see it and welcomes the inconsistency of the norms, which are no longer considered as part of a system. We write laws completely forgetting the other laws already in force on related matters, such as horses with blind eyes, which look only at the front and not at the sides and all around. Then, however, the citizens must apply all the laws and if they punch each other and are not coordinated, if there is no consistency in the law, they find it difficult to do so. The consistency of laws in the application must be addressed. The legislator of this bill seems to forget completely, almost with a collective removal, that the laws are not monads, isolated from each other, but are like the planets of the solar system, that even if they are remote they affect each other. It is difficult to see, not without bitterness for those who, like me, attach great importance to the laws governing safety at work, that in this bill one forgets that a road user is often also a worker, subject to the laws on work and safety at work, laws that are completely ignored here. For example, one forgets that that truck driver that we see passing every day on the first lane of the highway at that time is also a worker and therefore also subject to the laws on the prohibition of the consumption of alcohol and drugs that are provided for by the regulations of safety at work, of which the bill totally forgets the existence. The question is, has anyone bothered to read those rules? One forgets that if the alcohol content of that worker is controlled by the local health company, for labour laws, and cannot exceed certain values: to date zero (the State-Regions Conference, on 21 January, perhaps meeting, will modify the legislation); if it is controlled by the road police, it will not be able to break through others, other than the former; and now, with the bill on road murder, there are still several. It can be deduced only that the state does not have a precise idea of when a person can be said to be drunk on the street. Even our grandmothers, when we were young, calmed down the wine tasting, had a more precise idea than the Italian state had of what was the maximum limit of alcohol that we could hold. One forgets what the judges' judgments say about the subjective state of people who, in a state of drunkenness or intoxication, commit street murders. The judges have for some time gradually passed from conscious guilt to eventual malice, without anyone noticing it here. We forget what happens in the concrete cases that are told us by the judgments and how they are assessed; the risk is that we forget the established qualifications of the judges, even those indicated by the Cassation. It writes a text that neither reflects the naturalistic reality nor the legal reality: hybrid from both points of view. We forget that if the truck driver who goes back and forth on our highways makes an accident because he runs, often runs because someone - his company, for example - told him that he has to arrive from Milan to Taranto in five hours: it is a paradox, but to say that he has time objectives that do not take into account his safety. One forgets that in that case it would be possible to apply, according to current laws, an organizational responsibility of the company for which he works. But the legislator of this bill was so clever that he didn't foresee the company's responsibility in case of street murder, so with this bill that company would come out clean. I would also ask you to consider these aspects. I would remind you that road accidents and road accidents are an important part of this, and I had tabled amendments aimed at increasing, for example, the period of withdrawal of the driver's licence previously sanctioned for violation of the prohibition on the consumption of alcoholic beverages, i.e. when the State-Regions measure of 16 March 2006 was not complied with. I could also refer to the annex to the unified conference of 30 October 2007 on drug use. Do not consider these aspects, do not clarify the limits (0.8 or 1.5 grams/litre) that define the serious alcoholic drink, creates considerable regulatory confusion. The same is true if we do not also consider the other regulations which would have a greater impact on prevention. For example, the reduction in road traffic, improved safety conditions, training and so on should be started. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u23	Madam President, I would like to speak on this measure personally with a very precise position, also because it belongs to the Transport Committee which has powers. I should like to stress - and I say this for the Government - that, unfortunately, in general discussion, I understand that I am the only member of the Transport Committee and that it seems to me to be a bit of an anomaly. I have a fairly critical spirit about the provision because I do not think it was done with the seriousness, dedication and meticulousness it deserved. I certainly will not go into the details of criminal law issues, which I do not have to do, so I am not up to it and I do not even have school preparation, but I have dealt with transport for years - I did so also in the previous legislature - and having had experience with regard to safety, both personal and academic, I believe I have the need to emphasize certain issues. First of all, as a general character, I regret to note that in our country the idea is being revealed that, by approving this measure, we have solved all the problems. This is not the case: problems are complex and complex. When we cry about the victims on our roads, the situation is very complex and there are many causes that contribute to this situation. There is a person driving, there is a car and there is a road and I think it is important to emphasize it: these three competing factors must be placed in the best conditions to have more and more efficiency. This is not just me; I would like to stress that this was confirmed on 18 November 2015 in Brasilia also by the World Health Organization, which has been fighting for decades to reduce - and we have succeeded - the deaths on the streets, in our country and beyond. However, I would like to point out that we still have 1.2 million deaths on the roads worldwide every year. I was talking about competing factors in the problem of the deaths on the roads: man, cars and roads. Maybe it's good to refresh our memory a little bit about how over the years our cars have evolved - and this was a choice made by governments - to reduce fatal accidents. I make a little history, not to do the phenomenon, but because it is good to remind us that the seat belt was invented by a Canadian who registered the patent in 1903, but in Europe it became mandatory for the first time in 1973, in France; statistics to hand, the deaths we have had in these seventy years due to the lack of the safety belt are more numerous than those caused by the First World War, a madness. Moreover, one of the fundamental devices for the safety and reduction of the number of deaths is ABS, which was invented in 1960, but the modern device that we all know was patented in 1974 and became mandatory in our country only in 2004, i.e. a few years later, as a result of all the numerous deaths that we had to register. It is precisely in Brasilia that the World Health Organization has in fact dismantled what some people in our country are trying to get through to the public, that is, that the systems active in cars to increase safety and reduce the deaths are now exhausted, that is, that there is no more research or possibility of improving cars. That is not true and I do not say it, but the World Health Organisation, bringing clear and specific data. I mention only a banality: I remember that in this country of mad people (this country is, in fact, such) according to article 79, paragraph 4, of the code of the road - I just asked a police friend because I did not remember - a penalty applies from 84 euros to those who circulate with smooth tires. If I have smooth tires I receive 84 euros fine. I would like to remind everyone that our car travels on four small pieces of rubber whose contact area on the ground is 20 cm by 20 cm; this is the only point of contact we have with the road, so perhaps I will say a banality as a member of the 8th Commission (but I do not say it, but those much better than myself) but rubber is a fundamental element for the safety of cars. In our country we put people in jail for thirty years, but we don't multiply those who consciously spin with smooth tires and it happens only in our country. We will do an anomaly at European level: we will put people in jail for fifteen, twenty or thirty years, but we will not fine, as they do in Switzerland for example, those who circulate with smooth tyres. In that country, in fact, they withdraw their license for three years to those who are caught three times to circulate with smooth tires; it seems to me a very serious and civilized country. This is important. An issue that has been highlighted in Brasilia on the issue of car safety concerns active car safety systems, which need to be implemented more and more. We have ABS, as well as EASR and ESP (traction control and dynamic stability control); the latter are not yet mandatory on all cars, even if someone says they are, but in reality palliatives are made, especially compared to cars built in our country: they tell us that the control of dynamic stability is there, but technically there isn't. Now I don't want to go into these technical delicacies, but this is a big problem. Getting to the point, we have invested so much in systems and technologies to make sure that the manufacturers, instead of taking some alloy circle, some color or some extra decoration, made investments aimed at safety rather than the beauty of the car. Perhaps, from the commercial point of view, it is better to create a car with a thousand colors and a thousand possibilities of setting up, rather than a safer car. It is a market issue; however, let me say, Madam President, that perhaps, on our part, that we have the responsibility for it as legislators, the market must also be bound and sensitized, because we are talking about deaths. Our goal, in fact, is to make less dead or to find someone to blame for the death of people? And that is what one who has deep respect for the family tragedies from which I myself have not been spared, probably as many in this House. Therefore, with deep respect for everything and everyone, the solutions must be much more serious. We must not reduce everything to a chase to demagogy just to throw in a law that will be unique in Europe - and they will laugh at us for that too - and that is not good at all, in the absolute way. The serious aspect, Madam President, was well expressed by Senator Palma. I do not know how to say it as he said it and, therefore, I will certainly be crude in this statement, not being my subject. This provision makes no difference, or makes very little, between those who are distracted and those who are addicted to drugs and rotten drunk. You don't make a big difference between these kinds of situations. What are we talking about? In my personal experience, unfortunately, I happened to "burn" a stop and it went well for me. I was distracted; it was dark and I was in an area I didn't know. What if something happened to me? I didn't consciously. But, President, I can assure you that I never get drunk driving a car, because I've been educated in a country where it's always been said that you don't drive drunk. And we don't even educate young people enough. There's not enough awareness. Instead, we make a law that massacres someone so much to give a condolence to those who may ask for it, thus doing summary justice. I disagree, ma'am. There are more serious people in the world than we do investing in the new technologies I've told you about. Allow me to say that I am perhaps one of the few Members who has bothered to go almost to the Arctic Circle, in Lapland, to Arjeplog, where there is one of the most important research centers of the largest manufacturer of security systems worldwide. There are 300 engineers working on the development of new technologies in the field of safety. I can assure you that there are still many, many, many security systems that are not used and that, instead, could be applied to cars to make them safer. Do they cost more? I don't know, but it's definitely a market issue. But we are legislators and we have a responsibility. So do we want to clear our conscience briefly because we have to give society a one-off answer or do we want to do things seriously? In my opinion, we are not seriously doing this, with all due respect for those who wanted and wrote this law. That's not good. That's not a serious answer. We're gonna be laughing at each other all over Europe and all over the world. There's a hand in hand that shows the opposite of what we're doing. I have read in specialized magazines in our country that someone continues to insist that the safety systems active in cars are now exhausted. That's not true. It's exhausted who wrote it. It's not like that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] There's still a lot to do. There are really advanced technologies. One of the major Italian car manufacturers - unfortunately - sells a beautiful car, but it has major safety problems. I can't say what it is, because I might even get a complaint or a lawsuit, but we all know who it is. They claim that the machine is equipped with the ESP system and it doesn't have it. It is a "phenomenata" that they have invented in order to be competitive on the market and to reduce the costs. That's not good, Madam President. Let's say a lot of the Germans who did the phenomena by selling Volkswagen machines, scamming their customers and polluting half the world. Maybe there's someone around who sells cars by declaring that they have certain security systems and that instead, maybe, they're not safe at all. I don't say, I don't understand anything, but people say it much more ferrata than I do who denounced these realities. But that's the way it is. Returning to the measure, the approach we have had does not satisfy me at all and certainly cannot satisfy those who, in our country, seek and want absolutely answers. Our mission is to reduce the deaths on our roads, because there are still too many. There are thousands of deaths, it is an open war in the country, even if it is a problem not only ours, but general. What is needed is a serious response that has been there over the years. We've reduced the number of deaths in the last ten years, and it's invested a lot. Do we now want to wash our conscience with this provision? I disagree, Madam President. Someone wants to make it digest: the dirty work was done in the House of Deputies, they did it badly and they must take responsibility for it. I do not share it and I want to see what this House will do. It seems to me that perhaps it would have taken a little more courage on the part of everyone to denounce the disappointment, bitterness, disappointment and non-sharing of this provision, which I have heard voiced on off microphones. I have seen, however, that few have had the attributes and the "balls" to say what is wrong. 18.15 p.m. (Crossio followed). We have a responsibility to ourselves - this, however, is a personal matter - but also to the citizens, because laws, like it or not, are fortunately done here in Parliament. We therefore have this responsibility. And I do not want to be responsible for something that - as Mr Palma well recalled - will probably cause problems from the point of view of criminal law. I want to remind you that in our country the cost of claims, over a year, is still 18 billion euros - that is, a hyperbolic figure - and it is a big problem. It is sad to know and see that in our country excise duties on fuel, which causes the blessed or cursed cars and all means of transport that travel by road, are not used - for example - to raise awareness and education on the road. I say more: unfortunately the excise duties on fuel by this Government will not even be used for the third factor, which I have not yet mentioned, which is the quality of the roads. Dear Undersecretary, besides the human and the automobile, there is also a third factor to consider, which is the road, which helps to make victims. In this country we have more and more roads that are not worthy to be called so, for whose maintenance there is no more money and for which there is no security. This generates deaths and, I don't say so, but scientific studies say that deaths occur also on the sick roads. Even the deaths are also caused by the fact that the roads are not cleaned: it is scientifically proven that a braking with the ABS system - now present in all cars - on a road full of sand, is delayed by 40 percent (in which case the car stops 40 percent further) than that on a clean road; it is a bit like when there is snow or rain. Roads are constantly dirty and this increases braking space. It sounds like a banality, but it isn't, and scientific studies say it. In conclusion, it is too easy to approve a measure in which we find someone to put on the cross and wash our conscience to everyone, to the Government - who does not want to invest money in the streets and safety - and to those who produce cars, perhaps even in a somewhat birbantello way. If that is what we want, it is clear that I disagree. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Pagnoncelli and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u25	Mr President, in the context of the measure under discussion, a significant space must be allocated to the issue of the precise determination of the state of alteration caused by the intake of amazing substance. This plays an important role precisely in order to ensure the effectiveness of the measure itself. The aim is to specify the concept of a state of alteration caused by the intake of amazing substance for the purposes of configurability of the offences referred to in Articles 589-a and 590-a of the Criminal Code. Currently, in the event of street murder, police officers often place a light in the eyes of those who have been stopped and simply check the state of agitation, which I think is common to all. Maybe it shows, with the light, that the pupil remains dilated and, therefore, the police officer writes in the report that the person is in a state of alteration driving. We ask, instead, that it is fundamental that the assessment of this state of alteration be carried out by the health structure called upon to proceed to the collection of samples of biological liquids referred to in Article 187, paragraph 3, of the legislative decree of 30 April 1992, n. 285. The sense of this clarification is of easy intuition. On the one hand, this constitutes an important defensive guarantee, so it is avoided to entrust to non-competent personnel a certificate certainly not easy and very often conditioned by objective and subjective circumstances totally unrelated to the regulatory function of the criminal prescription. On this point, it is sufficient to recall that there are substances the intake of which does not involve any state of alteration or involves a temporary state of alteration, although the traces of the intake of the substance remain present even in the days following the intake. In this respect, it is essential that we find out what is proposed in the time and manner indicated in our Amendment No 2,300. Certainly, therefore, the objective and scientific assessment of this state of alteration and its causes is an important defensive guarantee. On the other hand, certainty as to the existence of the state of alteration makes it possible to guarantee the effectiveness of prosecution, in the sense of preventing superficial conduct on the procedural level from allowing those guilty of such serious crimes to get away with and avoid a well-deserved condemnation. It cannot in fact escape how the presumption of innocence and the need for certainty of proof can result for the judicial bodies in an insurmountable obstacle, in the face of the objective difficulty of arriving at a sure ascertainment of the said state of alteration caused by the intake of amazing substance. In short, the seriousness of the crime and the spread of the anguish and dramatic phenomenon of the victims of the road (very often girls and boys) impose a certain system of verification of responsibilities. Only in this way will it be possible to limit the incidence of external variables, such as the rigour of agents operating at the time of road arrest or the non-uniform guidelines of the different courts. The text, therefore, is incomplete on the point. It is considered that it is important to clarify, with the proposed amendment, the problems of method and merit related to the determination of the state of psychophysical alteration caused by the possible use of narcotic substances in the investigation of the case. We understand, however, that the government is about to announce trust. This government, of course, is more interested in proclamations than in actually making good laws for the nation. And, and to make new laws, President, you need to confront yourself. We do not understand what it is like to put trust in a measure on which the vast majority of all political forces are willing to achieve a common result. For example, the amendment proposed by the 5 Star Movement shows - in our view - how the parliamentary debate can make the laws better at the service of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u26	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u27	Mr President, Mr Ferri, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law No 859-1357-1378-1484-1553-B, which we are examining today, is the result of the vote of the House of Deputies, which has amended the text approved by the Senate on 10 June. This road murder measure was designed to fill a regulatory vacuum and respond to a need for security and justice that our citizens feel every day. However, as I have already mentioned in the previous parliamentary passage, if we try today with this text to punish road pirates more effectively, we could and should have intervened more quickly. I raised the issue of road safety by presenting a legislative proposal two years ago. Today, the adoption of a sanctioning regulation of behaviours that cause great social alarm must certainly be welcomed but, if we widen the spectrum of our analysis, we immediately realize that the great European countries have updated their respective legal systems in this matter for several years and therefore, once again, Italy adapts with guilty delay. The citizens ask us to punish those who cause death on our roads with irresponsible and rash behavior. It is very important that the fact-finding and identification of responsibilities should take place precisely and quickly. The social condemnation of such driving behaviour must result in measures of justice which, although insufficient, must be ensured in order to respond to the right demands of the families of the injured and the victims. The numbers of road crime in our country are significant and provide a picture to be interpreted carefully; if on the one hand, in fact, injured and killed by road accidents have been constantly decreasing for more than ten years; on the other hand, the Italian figures remain higher than those of the other major European countries and the average of the European Union. The fall in victims and injuries is visible with reference to absolute values: the deaths on our roads fell from 7,000 in 2001 to 3,400 last year. The wounded were over 370,000 in 2001 and reduced to just over 250,000 in 2014. Instead, the road mortality rate is the standard harmonised and comparable European parameter, which measures the level of road mortality by calculating the number of deaths per million inhabitants. In 2014, Italy recorded a figure of 55,6 above both the EU average (51) and the data recorded, among others, in the United Kingdom (28), Spain (35), Germany (41) and France (52). ISTAT and ACI data, which provide detailed information on multiple categories of road accident analysis, also show that, last year, 75% of accidents were recorded on urban roads, while the largest number of deaths were caused by accidents on extra-urban roads, excluding motorways and fittings. In addition, again in 2014, the largest category of victims was that of passenger car drivers involved in the accident (40 percent of the total), followed by scooters and motorcyclists (24 percent), falling by 4 percent compared to the previous year. Pedestrians, on the other hand, were 17 percent, with a 5% increase, and cyclists were 8 percent, with an almost 9 percent increase. The numbers that I wanted to recall briefly give us a concentration of episodes that, unfortunately, continue to occur on our roads: statistical trends certainly improving, but that hide, behind the numbers, lives and dramatic events of hundreds of thousands of Italians. I repeat once again that the State has a duty to punish with the right severity the grossly unfair behaviour of those who lead, ensuring that the people involved and the families of the victims have swift and effective justice. Today's measure goes in this direction and, despite being very late, it is certainly a fundamental step for our country to reach European standards for the protection of its citizens' rights in the field of road safety. The judge will be able to assess the conduct of motorists and motorcyclists on the basis of proportionality, appreciating in concrete terms the relationship between the right to the protection of life and physical integrity and the psychological attitude of the authors of these crimes. The identification of two new forms of crime (road murder and personal road injuries) follows the tightening of the sanctioning apparatus, framing the psychological attitude of those who, aware of the illegality and danger of their driving behaviour, accept the risk and do not evaluate the consequences for the rest of the community. In recent years, some judges, overcoming the interpretations of crime merely manslaughter, have given importance to the conduct of those who, in the presence of particular objective presuppositions (such as the state of drunkenness or the alteration from narcotic substances) have nevertheless put themselves at the wheel of a vehicle and have agreed to endanger the supreme good of their lives and, above all, of the life of others. Now it is time to recognize also at the regulatory level that these criminal acts are true crimes, even more serious than those of man who, by definition, are characterized by a much lower level of social disvalue. Another factor that has led to the codification of road crimes is the economic cost to the community of the consequences of these deplorable driving behaviours. In fact, road accidents account for about 2.6 percent of Italian gross domestic product. On the substance, the text under consideration provides that those who drive under the influence of alcohol or drugs and cause the death of one or more persons may be sentenced to imprisonment from five to ten years; if they cause personal injury, the imprisonment will be differentiated for serious injuries (reclusion from one year to six months to three years) and serious injuries (reclusion from two to four years). In addition, different penalty modulations are appropriate depending on the alcohol level recorded in those causing the road accident. We will apply heavier penalties to those who exercise professionally the activity of public driver or driver. Such variations are inspired by the logical idea of punishing more severely those who make themselves the author of behaviors that compromise to a greater extent the ability to drive safely. Furthermore, a driving licence is to be withdrawn in case of road murder for a period which, in the most serious cases in which the perpetrator has fled, may be up to thirty years, while in the case of serious or serious injuries the withdrawal may last up to twelve years. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Scilypoti. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Do I still have a few minutes? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The remaining time at your disposal is one minute. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you. Perhaps for the most serious behaviors, like the last mentioned, it would have been appropriate to reflect on the introduction of a stricter ancillary penalty, providing, in the event of a specific relapse of those who have already been convicted of road murder, the withdrawal of the driving licence indefinitely (the so-called life sentence). In order to complete the sanctioning framework, the measure provides that prison sentences should also be applied in the presence of particularly dangerous and contemptuous driving behaviours of the safety of others. It is, in fact, subject to imprisonment who causes the death of a person for speeding, for a passage with red traffic light, for driving against the hand or for an overtaking or reversal in points of prohibition. To conclude, the current discipline does not offer clear and effective rules to punish those who lead and irresponsibly cause the death or injury of other people. Too many times the state has been perceived as a useless and powerless superstructure, a bureaucracy that fails to deal with and solve the problem of road accidents. The draft law under consideration, the result of a synthesis of several legislative proposals, has the ambition to constitute a first and significant step forward. The monitoring and the careful analysis of the numbers... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u28	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, I gave you an extra minute to get it done, but unfortunately it wasn't enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u29	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, however, Mr President, and I would ask for permission to hand over the remainder of my speech to the record. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u30	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u31	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u32	Mr President, when the draft laws relating to the introduction into our legal system of the crime of road murder came to the examination of the Senate Justice Commission and then to the Assembly, my group and I have tried to make a useful contribution to the implementation of a text that is reasonable and fair, what is necessary, in order to introduce, even in the field of sanctions, a principle which we all certainly agree with here. It is a principle which must be strongly reaffirmed and which translates, quite simply, into a very short sentence: either drink or drive; or you are driving a motor vehicle, a motor vehicle, in situations of perfect lucidity, otherwise it is a guilty course. The mere driving in a condition of non sobriety and non-discretion must, only for this reason, be the subject of punishment by the State; and this is all the more so in cases where, even from the point of view of manslaughter and where there is talk of unwanted events, the death or personal injury of other drivers or other road users is caused. This is a principle that we have shared, so much so that - as we all remember - in the first step, this House voted almost unanimously on the text that the Senate subsequently fired. The problems - as has already been pointed out by those who have illustrated them in a much more authoritative way than I have - have arisen when the text, in the other branch of Parliament, has been the subject of amendments and additions that - in our view - have greatly diminished its scope in terms of effectiveness, reasonableness and compatibility with some of the principles provided for in our Constitutional Charter. I will not repeat these problems, even in the awareness of not being able to replicate the brilliant exhibition carried out here by President Palma with reference to many pejorative profiles of the text produced in the Chamber. However, I would like to focus on one aspect which, with the premises I have made, is truly paradoxical. I refer to the seventh paragraph of Article 1, which establishes the principle, already introduced by the Senate, of reasonableness, in the sense of mitigating the criminal penalty in the event of manslaughter for those who are driving in drunkenness or under the influence of narcotic substances. And let's remember that the edittal penalty goes from a minimum of eight years to a maximum of twelve years of imprisonment. It is certainly a penalty of maximum rigour, certainly higher than the one foreseen for most of the arsonous crimes, those for which the accused must respond not merely to manslaughter, but to the precise decision and will to carry out the event. But this was something that we had overcome: to admit, that is, a sanction so heavy and so strong, that leads to prison, even coming to alternative rites in the debate or in preliminary hearing. In short, even with the plea and the abbreviated judgment, starting from the minimum of the sentence of eight years, you would arrive at a amount of punishment that would make that defendant spend a few years in prison. But the point on which I wanted to dwell is that contained in paragraph 7 of article 1, novelized by the Chamber, where a criterion of reasonableness was introduced in case of causal competition in the realization of the mortal event. It seemed right to the entire Senate, in the first passage, to give a chance to the judge, in the concrete case that the causal contribution to the fatal event of the defendant was minimal or in any case less than 50%. I'm opening a parenthesis, though. Those who have practice in judicial, criminal and civil classrooms of fatal or in any case related to serious or serious personal injury, know that in a good percentage (now I do not know how to quantify precisely, but should be around 40 or 50 percent) the cause of the accident is very often attributable to the violation of rules of the road code by both or more drivers, if they are more vehicles or vehicles interested in a accident. Well, the common principle was to say that, if you have to face such a significant penalty (from eight to twelve years or, in cases of violation of some rules of the road code, from five to ten years), at least give the judge the possibility of being able to calibrate the penalty in cases where the causal contribution is minimal (for example 20 percent). The judge should be free, that is, to be able to graduate the penalty case by case, falling even below those minima, precisely because we are talking about sanctions that have a very high edittal window, already in the least. But where's the trouble? The problem is that, in the wording of the seventh paragraph, the reference to the hypotheses of the preceding paragraphs obviously includes all the preceding paragraphs. The case wants the House to be introduced a new first paragraph, which punishes from two to seven years the ordinary manslaughter, always following the violation of rules of the road code (who does not stop at the stop, who does not slow down the signal to give precedence, who does not fasten the belts). The manslaughter following any violation of the code of the road involves, today, an edittal sentence from two to seven years, reproposed also in the text of the law that we examine, in the first paragraph. What does the recall of the seventh paragraph entail to all previous paragraphs? Obviously the possibility of reducing the sentence to half also applies to the new first paragraph and also to the manslaughter trials that are underway today, while we are talking. The edittal sentence from two to seven years provides a wide scissors, which allows the judge to adapt the sanction to the concrete case, being able to start from a minimum of two years (which obviously means that you do not go to jail) until a maximum of seven years. Well, that reduction, in the case of guilt contest, also applies to these assumptions. Basically, if the text were to pass this way, without any kind of amendment, we would be forming the criterion (which, by the principle of favour, should be adapted in all courtrooms) of a 50% penalty discount in all cases of guilt contest. And I believe that this would be a result that is not wanted by those who are looking for a new sanctions discipline, stricter, but also more reasonable. We would, in fact, have the paradoxically contrary effect of guaranteeing discounts of sentence to those who, starting today, had to deal with criminal proceedings for manslaughter for any violation of the street code, in fact reducing substantially the edittal penalty. And I think that this would not be a desired effect either by the associations of the family members of the victims of the road. This is a logical defect of reasonableness in the text, which we frankly do not see how it can be overcome, except with a necessary amendment. Personally, then, I do not hide any personal doubts about having inserted new cases of manslaughter following violation of the highway code, with a punishment greater than the normal one from two to seven years, namely with an edittal frame ranging from five to ten years of imprisonment. I am referring, for example, to the inclusion of the red traffic light next to other pipelines, which are certainly indicative of a particularly stigmatizable and censorable course. In fact, if going at a speed equal to twice the permitted limit or operating a U-turn at a road intersection involves a course that lasts a certain period of time, in which the driver inevitably cannot fail to realize that an objectively dangerous maneuver and statistically an accident in terms of mortality on the roads, the passage with the red light lantern unfortunately can also be due to distractions which, since it means that they must be pursued and discouraged in any way, are to some extent impossible - at least I believe, perhaps wrong - in the daily experience of each of us. There is no need to be qualified experts or technical consultants in order to make some evaluations. An account is to press the accelerator and realize to go at 110 kilometers per hour with a limit of 50: in this circumstance it is right, in case of fatal injury or personal injury, to further aggravate the penalty to the perpetrator. But that even a distraction due to the most trivial reasons, such as the fall of the glasses (I don't want to talk about the more censorable cases of those who use the phone or writes on "whatsapp" but of any kind of distraction that lasts even fractions of a second), can lead to a detention penalty so rigid, by virtue of a conduct that remains manslaughter and an event that happens only by chance, that unfortunately sees another driver impacting with the vehicle, seems to me to be something very risky and risky. [[Recalls of the President]] I see my time is running out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u33	It's been over for over a minute, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u34	BUCCARELLA (M5S). I reserve the right, then, to highlight other critical aspects in the illustration of the amendments, if we have the possibility, on the understanding that, beyond these critical observations in the technical sense on many points, we certainly share, as the 5 Star Movement Group of the Senate, the need to operate a legislative novel aimed at sanctioning more seriously the behavior of man, but always in an area of reasonableness and realism. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u35	Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General, there is something strange, as President Palma has also pointed out: more and more often, we find ourselves, almost in the whole of this House, in agreement with the general assumption and we do not understand, then, why we can never reach a consensusable legal conclusion. Senator Palma, with the ability of the rhetoric that belongs to him, defined this as a kind of schizophrenia. It seems to me that there is always a need that is imposed on us by events that take place outside and that the attempt to respond is, on the other hand, very often reduced in an announcement of the kind: "Venghin, gentlemen, come." But is it possible that we should always reduce ourselves to finding approximate solutions? Given that there is rumor of a maxi amendment, I would submit to the Undersecretary Ferri, who has the authority to intervene on behalf of the Government (which the Government does more and more often, acting almost as if they were repeatedly decree-laws, even if this is not), a series of data that I believe can also be necessary indicators to see if we can intervene and make this measure more possible and not, instead, impossible, as it appears from the text that we are about to fire. For a long time - and this year in particular - the trend has been reversed: after having recorded a decrease in road accidents, we have seen a reversal. The peak peak peaked in July, especially in the night time slot. The data collected by the police and Carabinieri bodies show that, among the main causes of road accidents - and this is a novelty that we have been very careful to identify in the Commission, because there are not only alcohol and drugs - today there is the use of mobile phones to drive. New habits and modern technology have increased the number of accidents. According to the monthly "Polizia Moderna" magazine, in the first seven months of the year there were 972 victims, compared to 952 in 2014. Mortal accidents have gone from 879 in 2014 to 897 this year. The use of the telephone at the wheel is particularly important on this growing figure. Research by the French Institute of Statistics points out that distraction due to mobile phones during driving results in a reduction of between 30 and 50 percent of the information perceived by the road. Added to distraction is another inevitable evil that affects everyone, stress. This creates such distractions in motorists that accidents are very often fatal. We all have our eyes on the daily images of people going on scooters with mobile phones stuck in helmets and the most dangerous maneuvers to pull the phone out of their pockets when it rings. Above all, we have arrived at the texting (severly forbidden in many countries, with the USA in the lead) to compose or respond to messages, when we do not even dedicate ourselves to writing e-mails. The lack in the text under consideration of the case of 'conscious' distraction is a serious gap that will have to be filled as soon as possible, because it further aggravates the traditional framework of the case-law of accidents which, until recently, saw the abuse of alcohol and drugs among the first causes. It seems to us, therefore, more appropriate than ever, the introduction into the penal code of a new crime, the street murder, as we are asked from several parts, which concerns not only mortality, but also serious damage to people, with the application of the crime of road injuries. It is equally appropriate for us to anticipate the automatic withdrawal of the licence in the event not only of conviction but also of pleas, provided that care is taken - as President Palma has rightly pointed out - to approve its sanction with European legislation. Similarly, it seems appropriate to us to predict heavy aggravating agents in the presence of infringements of the dangerous road code itself, such as speeding or non-compliance with the stop or other reckless manoeuvres, with the emphasis that such infringements must be severely combated with zero tolerance, even regardless of the accident. Here we should open the chapter of the very serious degeneration of the current car discipline, since virtuous behaviours are increasingly rare and destined to drown in the magnum sea of generalized choice. The fundamental problem lies precisely in the tightening up of infringements, in the ability to exercise real control and sanctions and in the timely application of sanctions themselves, following the example of other nations where respect for human life (own and others) is the lighthouse that inspires the whole system of control, prevention and punishment of road traffic. We are in favour of tightening the penalties, although, paradoxically, the new crime may have an undesirable effect which must be taken into account, and I am referring to the things that most Members have pointed out. In fact, it must be borne in mind that some of the offences involving road murder (such as those on speed) are difficult to reconstruct and risk triggering a war with expert judgements. New preventive control strategies and more than necessary tightening of sanctions must therefore go hand in hand: if we focus for a moment on WHO estimates that road accidents will be the first cause of death in 2020, it is clear that more controls and a broad cultural awareness exercise are needed, starting from the early years of the school journey. The law alone is not enough: it must be applied and it is important to build a new culture of respect for the person and life around the norm. Nevertheless, respect for the inviolable value of human life must be protected from conduct that needs to be sanctioned on the basis of the principle of proportionality, which represents a great constitutional principle of a general nature, or even a principle of supra-constitutional rank which governs and limits the right of public authorities and which is transposed by Article 49, paragraph 3, of the Charter of Nice, under which: The penalties imposed must not be disproportionate to the offence. It is from this point of view that we have proposed amendments aimed at reshaping some of the provisions of the draft law before this House today, where, as in Article 1, the penalty of imprisonment from five to ten years is imposed for anyone who, in violation of a series of rules of the road code, causes the death of certain people: that is to say, with the same penalty as for those who do the same action by driving in a state of drunkenness or by taking drugs. It is evident the different subjective element that characterizes the conduct of those who determine to pass from a crossroads with red traffic light from that of those who do it because they are not able to understand. It is clear that the behaviors described above show an undeniable different gravity and that therefore the penalty treatment, in order not to be unreasonable, cannot be the same. The same difficulties are encountered in evaluating the conduct of those who move against the hand. Moreover, these conducts would not remain unprotected, since the relevant cases already foreseen and sanctioned by the new Article 589- bis of the Criminal Code (i.e. that of the manslaughter committed in violation of the rules on road traffic). Leaving such sanctioning treatment, in addition to weakening the whole of the measure, would clearly conflict with the principle of reasonableness and proportionality, enshrined in Article 3 of the Constitution. Senator Palma, President of the Justice Commission, has highlighted these aspects of unconstitutionality and I believe that common sense would dictate that, when you take the decision to create a large amendment tonight, you want to take account of the considerations made in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u37	Mr President, after a year and a half of gestation we are still here discussing this draft law, as if we had not had time to create an adequate, proportionate and useful standard. We are faced with a phenomenon certainly characterized by great human tragedies, if we think that, from data collected by ISTAT, from 2008 to 2012 out of 32,000 accidents there were 1,000 deaths and 35,000 wounded. I'm talking about drunk driving accidents or drugs. However, it is a delay that offends the victims of the road, the family members and all the associations who are begging for this rule to become law; a rule that, in fact, was particularly strict on the issue of drunk driving or under the influence of drugs. The goal was to induce everyone, in a very severe way and with severe penalties, to have an awareness that, if you have drunk, you do not drive the machine. However, the question of justice was given an answer that reveals technical errors and inconstitutional profiles such as to make it almost classified as a summary justice. What President Palma said we share not only with all of us in the Northern League Group, but also with many of our colleagues in this House. More than one of us has, in fact, found the problems and the criticalities inherent in the measure under consideration. Already from a first reading it is clear that the penalties envisaged are so severe that they show a clear disproportion and an imbalance. And we must remember that all these norms, perhaps poorly made, then, in the end, become ineffective on the operational level, as Senator Caliendo also pointed out in his speech. And the technicians of the law - and not only - point out all the problems inherent in the provision to our examination, bearing in mind, among other things, that it is not true - whatever it is said and whatever the propaganda that is made of it - that road murder is not foreseen: road murder already exists, already is punished and is punished even severely, but then in practice perhaps the judiciary has not fully exploited the norm and has not imposed severe penalties. We said before that the question that was asked was about justice, especially with regard to those who put themselves on the road in a drunken state. And someone will remember that there has been a broad discussion about whether or not the drunk driver is in charge of causing accidents and deaths. In that case we were even wondering whether it was possible to talk about a manslaughter or an indirect pain, that is, almost wanted. And then, instead, we find ourselves in front of a text, like the one fired by the Chamber, which in some ways has also upset the main idea. In fact, it comes to predict the hypothesis, for a verse, in which it is assumed to exist on the part of the drunk driver a kind of awareness of being able to have a dangerous course, but also purely manslaughter hypothesis such as the guide against the hand, the crossing of a cross with the red traffic light, the excess of speed, the reversal of the direction of march. They are all manslaughters who are punished with penalties from five to ten years, more severe - let us remember - than those planned for a robbery or almost equal to those provided for the crime of extortion. In addition, as President Palma has already pointed out, we are also faced with the assumption that a case which has nothing to do with an accident in road traffic, namely the non-payment of the insurance policy, is regarded as aggravating. It is therefore expected as aggravating a hypothesis such as this, resulting from a mere non-compliance of a civilistic type. Those who do not pay the policy face compensation problems and, of course, problems with insurance companies. But this can certainly not be regarded as an addict. Or perhaps we are passing a rule to encourage people to take out policies of all kinds, because insurance has realized that people no longer make insurance contracts because they have no money? This is not the place for such an intervention. Then there is another completely impossible and unacceptable provision for us. In the text dismissed by the Senate a kind of guilt contest had been envisaged; that is, it had been established that, in the case of road homicide for drunk driving or other similar conducts, a reduction of the penalty could be applied when the event was the sole consequence of the victim's action. The provision has been overturned, because the Chamber has foreseen a reduction of the sentence only in the case where there is a contest in the manslaughter of the victim, thus excluding the hypothesis of the contest in a malicious conduct, or in a manslaughter or arson of third parties. It was said before the case that a person gets hit by going against the hand to avoid a pedestrian, makes an accident, kills another person and that's why he gets to see a sentence imposed up to ten years. It is something absolutely incomprehensible and unconstitutional. In short, I think that the profiles highlighted by my colleagues cannot but be shared. From the point of view of unconstitutionality, then, one cannot but silence the case of the escape of the culprit, for which one cannot but share the prediction of a penalty not less than five years. President Palma also said that the judiciary must be able to determine the penalty. We legislators cannot force jurisdiction and provide for a minimum of punishment, which raises the problems that have already been highlighted. Another issue, then, emerged in the Justice Commission, and concerns a coordination rule. It is surprising that the House of Deputies is probably unaware of the road code. It is expected that the duration of the withdrawal of the driving licence may be up to fifteen or thirty years, but - as a matter of fact - the licences of foreign subjects have been forgotten. Perhaps it is not necessary to read the newspapers so much to realize that many road accidents are unfortunately caused by foreigners. In that case, however, the withdrawal of the licence lasts up to three years and, therefore, there is no longer the deterrent effect that would be given to this rule. There is still a possibility of a large amendment on which to put the question of trust. However, there has been time to work in the Commission and all these concerns have been highlighted there and the amendments have been voted on. We are all, therefore, curious to see whether, in the maxi amendment, the content of those amendments proposed by colleagues or by us senators of the North League will be transfused. Perhaps he was sorry to vote in favour of amendments in the Commission or perhaps we start thinking, without hiding behind a finger, that there was a fear that the measure in this House might not be adopted. Perhaps there was fear of a few secret votes, which would also lead colleagues in the majority to make different assessments. And I'm not thinking about treason assessments against your party, or political opportunity, but about the assessments of those who read a piece of legislation and realize that it's unacceptable. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] So there is an opportunity to make some changes now: let's make them, have the courage to make them. A bad rule is not the answer to a question of justice. A bad rule creates problems at the time of its application and probably does not produce the effect you would like. If we begin to create ill-structured and misguided norms, they do not become operational and we risk putting them in the hands of the incomprehensible magistrates. Even - as I suppose it will - if the penalties are so high, the defense attorney will not hesitate to raise the problem of unconstitutionality and, at that point, the judge will raise the incident of unconstitutionality. In that case, the process will certainly not end in a short time and with penis that you would like specimens. The result is that we currently have an almost excessive standard, which has a great evocative and also emotional effect, but which does not solve anything. By adopting legislation on the purely emotional effects of a moment, a good standard is not created. If there is an opportunity to make a change, you should not hesitate to spend a month or a month and a half more work, to have a really effective standard. If, on the other hand, we only want to follow the emotional wave of those who have certainly experienced immantic tragedies and are thirsty for justice, we must remember that the answer to be given by the State and the judiciary is justice and not revenge. For this reason, we hope that the legislation we are debating can be revised, not to mention the fact that we are now here to say that these are incredible rules and penalties, because perhaps they could be applied to an eighteen-year-old, but since the beginning of the legislature, the Justice Commission, in the wake of the Government and the majority, has only approved measures for decriminalization, for the granting of penitentiary benefits, for the reduction of the sentence and the release of [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And, then, why do we expect pains up to 12 years within a system that is not punitive at all? This is a pure contradiction. It is only a slogan what is being done about this measure, which wanted to be serious, as it is serious in its objectives, but we should try to take a look at its contents. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u38	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u39	Mr President, two schools of thought have been confronted with the hypothesis of murder and personal injuries caused by road accidents. The first considers that, since these cases produce, in terms of social costs, estimated amounts of more than 2.6% of gross domestic product, they require the introduction of new crime figures to fill the legal vacuum to which the jurisprudence, and not the legislator, has tried to remedy in recent years. The other considers that the current legal framework in the case of the simple criminal offence is sufficient with the aggravating factors provided for those who are driving a vehicle intoxicated or under the influence of drugs, thus accepting the risk of causing the death of others. In 2011, with sentence 204, the Court of Cassation found a defendant guilty of murder and voluntary injuries who, aboard a stolen van, to escape the police pursuit, had caused an accident with several deaths and injuries, embracing the arson thesis. The text that came out of the Chamber does not introduce the eventual malice and therefore remains in the manslaughter field, but the new cases of crime introduced do not appear to meet the requirement of reasonableness, which, especially in criminal matters, presupposes, as established by the Constitutional Court, that the use of legislative discretion satisfies the principle of proportionality between unlawful and sanction. In this third reading it would therefore be appropriate to assess the extent of the penalty imposed in the case of road homicide and personal road injuries also in relation to the minimum edittal limits laid down for other cases of manslaughter, such as, for example, the murder committed in violation of the rules on occupational accidents or that committed by serious medical fault. In terms of the driver's flight, which is expected both for road murder and for personal road injuries, the rule in both cases has profiles of inconsistencies, which could emerge especially in the application site. In fact, in case of escape, an increase of the penalty from a third to two thirds is expected, but at the same time a minimum edittale higher than twice the minimum expected for the crime committed without aggravating. The paradoxical effect of an abnormal and, in any case, proportional to the more serious assumptions, would therefore, in the case of a lower severity. Another critical issue, which can be more properly defined absurdity, concerns the hypothesis of compulsory arrest in flagency, with reference to the hypothesis of manslaughter for driving in a drunken state. However, it is excluded the possibility that manslaughter by drunk driving is committed by specific categories of drivers (in case, just the professional categories): a difference of treatment obviously completely inconsistent. In short, there is a real risk that you will come to pass a law that is very long-awaited but excessively repressive and punitive, as well as unenforceable. Already today, under current legislation, those who have the misfortune to kill a person in the car are punished from three to ten years. Today, therefore, he is not unpunished, but punished from three to ten years. Well, if we approve of this rule, it will be punished for eight to twelve years. Iniquity therefore lies in this: the minimum penalty is three to eight years and the maximum is ten to twelve years. So there is a genuinely difficult disproportion to understand. But when it comes to drunks and drug addicts, maximum severity is right. If we talk instead of all the other 20 million normal people driving the car, about mothers taking children to school, or about those who go to work with their own means, it is not acceptable to have mass criminalisation. These people, according to the law that we are approving, can be arrested with a sentence of four to ten years not because they are drugged or drank, but if they pass with red, if they make a reversal of march or a daring overtaking. Then I ask, if there is a traffic homicide, why there is no attempted traffic homicide. Let me give you an example: two friends get drunk or do drugs in the same way, each taking his own car. One has the misfortune to kill one person, the other has another accident without consequences. Well, the first is sentenced to twelve years and the other to nothing. That seems to me to be an unacceptable disproportion. Why then must the penalty be tripled if more than one person is killed? If I have an accident and have the misfortune of hitting a car in which they travel not one but two people because I have to triple the penalty? It was certainly not a voluntary choice to have an accident with a car with more people on board. We are therefore moving towards a draconian sanctioning framework. In fact, the new legislation not only affects the pirates and the reckless of the road, but also risks putting "normal" people in jail who make a mistake. I read that many associations call for even greater severity. Let's say that the penalties provided for the most serious cases are rightly heavy: you can go from five to eighteen years of imprisonment. So there is no risk of falling within the limit of two years, within which the conditional suspension of the sentence takes place, which so far has prevented the prison from being held by the majority of those responsible for fatal accidents. At most we approach (two and a half years) with the half-life that can be achieved when there is guilt competition from the victim. The risk remains for accidents caused by all other violations (even very slight) of the road code. The problem is that some of the infringements considered to be serious have been included which are not always serious: sometimes it happens, for example, to overcome with continuous strip very slow means without thereby creating serious dangers. Of course, in order to balance all the paradoxes there is the discretion of the judge, who has to decide the penalty within the minimum and maximum laid down by law and recognize mitigating and aggravating. But in order to judge correctly it would be necessary to base itself on certain elements, that come from complete and unattainable surveys by the Forces of the Order, and on scientifically correct evaluations, all things that Italy too often cannot afford, being lacking the presence of the police forces because of the lack of men and means, which prevents an activity of prevention on the roads that would certainly be more effective than the indiscriminate tightening of the penalties. Finally, there is the question of apprehension, which I have already mentioned, that risks being reduced to a demagogic manifesto: in fact, a person can also be arrested, but then in jail we must also keep it. And in order to keep it there is a need for protective custody that no judge recognizes in situations of alcohol or drugs driving for which they already take the withdrawal of the license and the seizure of the vehicle. With regard to the profile of the possibility of the mandatory detention of those responsible for these crimes, the Constitutional Court, with several decisions, affirmed the constitutional illegitimacy of legislative provisions - with the exception of the crime of association of the Mafia type - aimed at anchoring the application of the measure of protective custody in prison to criteria of mere automaticity, as is provided for by this law. Often, in the wave of emotion, politics tries to give - rightly - a response to public opinion, but we must always bear in mind the constitutional parameters that then, if not respected, cancel the effect pursued. The problem is not to enact a law on road murder, but to uphold the principles of law and the cornerstones of our legal system. It is not enough to propose and enact a good law, to make it unassailable from the point of view of constitutionality and to harmonize it with European regulations. The text we are debating is clearly unconstitutional. Let's hope that the night, with the maxi amendment, brings advice. [[Applause from Senator Barani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u40	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u41	Mr President, I am the 13th person to speak (after me few other people will do so) and none of the people who have spoken so far have expressed a positive opinion on the draft law before us. Even the rapporteur, at the time of his report, has highlighted a number of aspects on which we will now be right together, and so he has not been convincing in his praise of this bill. We are therefore faced with a measure on which, at least among those who have spoken so far that I mean those who report the position of the Groups of belonging, one hundred per cent of the speakers expressed opposition, at least in the form they took after the transition to the House. Interestingly, Senator Cucca's speech emphasized the thirst for justice. With regard to the subject of road murder, surely a strong element is the thirst for justice that should, however, make a couple with the certainty of justice, that is, with the certainty of compliance with the rules and the certainty of a procedural procedure that guarantees to those who have committed errors that the nature of the errors made is recognized in total clarity. And here came to the rescue the words of those who, much better than me, deal with the issue from the point of view of the general order of law, highlighting a whole series of gaps, inconsistencies and errors even Marchiani that could make useless the bill in question. Let us now return to the desire for justice. During the long process of examining the measure in the Justice Commission I tried to identify myself with the associations of the family members of the victims of the road who were audited together with many other subjects. In the end I asked myself the following question: what is worse than the lack of a standard that gives an answer to the thirst for justice? I believe that the worst thing is the presence of a rule that becomes useless because it is badly written, does not meet the needs and, moreover, continually puts the judge, who is called by the Constitution to interpret the rules, between the anvil and the hammer. On the one hand, there is clearly a lack of confidence in the judge's ability to interpret, who is required not to fall below a minimum penalty (which is very high), while on the other hand he is asked to investigate and ascertain responsibilities. That is what we are talking about and I believe that we have always agreed that there must be greater attention to the responsibility of the person at the time he leads. Of course, attention should be paid to the responsibility of the person when he does anything, but this is all the more true when driving after drinking or taking drugs. I would like to add - and we have to say it all - that a number of substances, however narcotic, are taken for treatment. Many drug liars indicate the risk of driving disability as a result of taking them. There are absolutely honest attitudes on the part of those who take drugs of a certain type, such as those for the treatment of headaches and migraines, in relation to which it is reported that they could slow down reflexes and produce negative effects for driving. Let us examine the aspect which, at the beginning of the process of this bill, was wanted to be nuclear as the most significant: there is certainly a malicious component when a person drinks or takes drugs and then drives. We can also say that there is the same responsibility on the part of those who have the bad habit of stepping on the accelerator and, without caring for driving conditions and even the prescribed speed limits, reaches speeds that make it even more difficult to have the promptness of reflections necessary to avoid the accident. Well, I would also have added the case of the use of electronic equipment during driving. We had put forward this proposal, which was accepted by Senator Di Maggio, but we were told that we could not include it because it was very difficult to try. I would like to know how you will find the way to test the speed, which is described so punctually in the text that you would like to fire, if there is no braking. It will be difficult to verify the speed of the vehicle at the time of the accident. With reference to the ability to prove a certain behavior, different profiles have therefore been chosen. It cannot be proved that the driver was using his cell phone, while it can be proved that he was exceeding in speed even if then - objectively - there may not be traces of such an excess of speed. But it's okay, let's move on. This had to be the principle to be saved because, in order to be really effective in this area, a law must discourage people from driving when they are inability to manage their own means. This is because many times in this House we have been reminded of the need for a different approach to driving and for different attention to be paid to ourselves at the time when a vehicle is being conducted. I would like to say to Senator Crosio, who is not present now and who reminded us of the issue of smooth tyres, that, however, this is also a responsibility of those who drive a vehicle. In fact, if you don't worry about the state of your vehicle, you can also manage not to easily control the vehicle and then kill a person. But if we read the declination made to the House of a whole series of violations of the road code, such as the reversal of march in correspondence of a bump or as the circulation with a means with smooth wheels (all things that are out of the question do not have to be done), well the case of smooth wheels in the declination made to the Chamber are not there. I would then like to ask the author of this text what criteria it has been decided that road traffic offences are more dangerous than others. If you have done so using statistics, or there is an ability to properly deepen the statistical data, or you may incur a continuous revision of the laws. It is for this reason that our Constitution provides for a general right, a ius that must be general and then must be applied according to the reality of individual cases. If we lose sight of this principle, we come to make not laws, but an encyclopedia of case studies. Justice, as well as as a remedial act, also as a guarantee of respect for the rule of law. I would now like to address two issues in particular, which have not yet been addressed and which are very close to my heart. The first is the theme of prevention because, as always happens, every time we talk about behavior and education we end up talking about the school that, of course, is the refugium sinterum. In school, therefore, road education is required. Well, I have to say to everyone present, and especially to the many absent, that at school road education is already being done. So, let's debunk this myth. The school's getting street education! [[Applause from Senator Cuomo.]] Why is it not effective? Because if I give a boy two hours of street education class and then the same goes in the car with the dad who, while driving, passes with the red light, or has drunk at dinner and continues to drive, or goes in the car with the mom, who distracts himself because he answers the cell phone, the kid learns what? Do you hold on to how much I passed on to him at school? Or does he learn from his parents'example? So, gentlemen, here the point is to increase the controls, because the reason that in other countries who drink doesn't drive is because outside the premises someone requisitions his car keys and doesn't let him drive. And the same reasoning applies to drugs. We were told at the hearing about great news in relation to drugs. And then you have to carry out the checks. The last point concerns the fund for the prevention of nocturnal accident, which is the most serious sign of the demagogy with which we move. A demagogy linked to this promise: "Road murder. Renzi: "The time of impunity is over". Big fuss. Great. Then, however, for the fund for the prevention of night crime, which has been established, there are no ministerial reports and no one knows where the money was put. So, I'd like to tell this executive to do the executive well. Tell the Ministers of Education, Transport and the Interior to present the reports. To tell us where the money has been put and what it is used for, to show us that the time of impunity is over and the time of prevention has begun. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and the Council and De Petris Senators]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u42	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u43	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Mussini, for this fund was my initiative from the Drugs Policy Department. It was intended to provide food for projects such as Drug on street, which included night control of alcohol and drugs on the ground. I remember that Saturday night's massacres cost us the lives of 8,000 kids. During the period of the war in Iraq, we had more children dead on Friday and Saturday nights than the entire American army, engaged in a real war (unfortunately the data were these). There has been a great deal of effort on this front. Perhaps in a contradictory way I could say that over the last twenty years I have been at the forefront of these road safety battles, against Saturday night's massacres and the need to bring down this abnormal number. At the end of the seventies, in Italy we recorded 8,000 deaths a year from road accidents; these were only the deaths in the shot, to which the mortality related to trauma should be added. I also remember, unfortunately, that some initiatives that took place in 2005 were beaten in the Chamber. They were some rules of night prevention, to avoid nomadism, but they were not lucky. I found a majority, ranging from PD to the League, which flunked, although for one vote, that proposal, which would serve, as the successive measures have shown, to limit death by far. Why do I find myself in difficulty today, even though I have an ancient militancy in the front of those who, with the help of many others and with an increased awareness, have managed to bring from 8,000 to 3,000 deaths related to road accidents? Because the measure we are debating seems to me to have no real head or tail; it seems to me to put a number of hellish mechanisms into this very delicate problem of road accidents. We must first remember that the road accident itself has two victims: the first victim is who loses his life or suffers a trauma following the accident, while the other victim very often is who causes the accident and that everything would have thought less of being, in a traumatic way, the death of another person on the conscience. I've been attending these family dramas for years, and I know what it's like for a family to get the news that a boy died tragically in the night on the fun front. We even coined the slogan that it would be better for that boy to come home without a driver's license than for his driver's license to come home without the boy. This has happened too many times in the last 20 years. But I didn't miss the drama of that young man who, having for the second time caused a fatal accident, committed suicide. He took his own life, because he could not bear the trauma of having twice been responsible for an event of this kind. Then we put ourselves in this dramatic picture for every family. Clearly, when an 18 - year - old man causes a car accident, his family, relatives and friends feel that even one day in prison is too much for what he has done. On the other hand, it is equally evident that the victim's relatives are demanding a very severe penalty. The legislator should strike a balance between these two requirements. When, with a great battle here in the Senate, we found an almost unanimous convergence in saying that we had to punish road murder with great severity, we had imagined as road homicide that of a person who puts himself in the car already in a condition that could predict, with his behavior, a possible pain, that is the drunk, the drug addict or those who go at such speed (equal to double or triple the speed allowed) to predict that they could cause an accident. From this we have gone farther than that; it must be read, because public opinion must be aware of it. As one colleague has already said, he risks 18 years in prison - I repeat: 18 years in prison - his mother or grandmother who accompanies the children to school in the morning, the commercial agent or the young newcomer. These people risk being in prison for eighteen years if, for example, they cross an intersection with the red light; it can happen, out of distraction, because you have the sun in your eyes, because there is fog, to pass with red. The same could happen if a person circulates counterhands. Think of the case where, on a day of fog in the North, an elderly person gets confused, takes a road against him and causes a fatal accident with a car that arrives on the other side, causing the death of two people; this person risks 18 years in prison. Or think of the case of those who, following a maneuver of reversal of the direction of march in proximity or correspondence of intersections, curves or bumps or following an overtaking of another means in correspondence of a pedestrian crossing or continuous line, cause the death of a person. So, I'm sorry, what are we talking about? Colleagues senators, those who have a driver of these norms may not even be interested, because there is someone who accompanies him. However, if this bill were passed, we would transform tens of millions of people every morning, when driving, into potential murderers. Not only that, but we also give this message: you can be a person who doesn't drink, who doesn't do drugs and who tries in principle to respect the code, but, if you happen to have the misfortune of a moment of distraction, more or less excusable, the order punishes you with the prison. What's this prison for? I would like colleagues to answer me. Once it is decided to punish those who put themselves in the condition of causing accidents, once it is established that there will be civil compensation and that therefore the victim's family will be compensated, keep a person in prison up to eighteen years, because she did not realize that there was a traffic light or because she made a change of pace or because, because of the fog, she took a road in the wrong direction, what social function does the prison carry out? If someone explains this to me, could I also understand the meaning of what the House has combined, eliminating the case of road murder that we had clearly outlined and making a technical-juridical confusion that has been illustrated by so many colleagues who have spoken, also from the point of view of the conflict with the Constitution and the confusion of penalties, which are distributed - I would say - almost casually, or of striking facts that should be explained to the public: the Italian driver's license is withdrawn for twenty years and the extra-Community, instead, for three years? If so, it would be another thing that is neither in heaven nor on earth. Undersecretary Ferri, you don't understand why the government has to put trust on criminal law. I have been the Minister for Relations with Parliament for five years, the Undersecretary, the Parent Company, the Vice President of the House, and I have never seen a Government intervene as it does today. I have read that authoritative members of the Government have said that the rule is wrong, but that we approve of it and then we will correct it. But on a phenomenon as serious as the road accident and the introduction of the crime of road murder, I believe that Parliament must adopt a law that works for at least the next 20 years; not - as too many have said - we must give a signal; what does it mean to give a signal by law? A signal is something political, not parliamentary or legislative. It is said: now we accept it this way and then we change it; but does it seem to you to be a serious attitude on the part of the legislator? Then, if we had actually gone from 8,000 fatal accidents to 10,000, I could have understood the emergency; fortunately, from 8,000 we have gone down to 3,000 and we are falling. It is therefore very good that, in addition to prevention, there are also stricter criminal rules that affect the most dangerous attitudes to driving; but we must not shoot in the pile. This is a rule that shoots in the pile and terrifies anyone who drives. With what state of mind does a person start driving, knowing that a manslaughter accident, without any responsibility or any prediction that might happen, involves him ruining his life? Do you think - I am addressing the Government - of the incident involving the mother of the family or the child, who perhaps, frightened, escapes and finds himself five years in prison; would public opinion be able to share this rule? I don't think so. I am not one who calls on the Government to put trust; I would rather urge the Government to respect Parliament. As we did before the Senate; with the amendments there is the possibility of correcting these incredible anomalies so that, in some way, Parliament would make a contribution to the government and the country to solve the problem. But the confidence placed on such an issue, leaving the government to rewrite a rule for the umpteenth time, bypassing Parliament, seems to me to be unacceptable. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Mazzoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u44	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u45	Mr President, representatives of the Government, my colleagues Mr Caliendo and Mr Palma have well illustrated, with a great deal of detail - and I will certainly not repeat their arguments, which I agree with - the reasons why this law, which the Italians are asking for, has such inconsistencies that it can be declared unconstitutional once it has been adopted. I would, however, like to make a few brief remarks, the first of which is the following. Italy is a country of advanced legal civilization and we say that it is not the severity of the penalty that reduces the amount or quantity of crimes. When dramatic events happen, someone invokes the death penalty and rightly say that this is not the way to avoid these aberrations. Well, I think that, if it is logical to revise the criminal sanctions to make them more appropriate to the time, the most important thing, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is to do a preventive work. The law will probably be finally passed by the House and the presence of Minister Boschi tells us that soon trust will be placed, but without law, lords representatives of the Government, it would be sufficient that the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defense on which the Carabinieri depend, gave certain dispositions. Since most of the dramatic road accidents are determined by the conditions of alcoholism or drugs, perhaps if one did as happens in many Western countries the test of the balloon or subject the people who have to drive to effective controls at the exit of pubs and discotheques, people would probably get used to doing what happens more often than in Italy: if you go out and want to return with the car what you have to drive you have to abstain from drinking. This is the operation that would really reduce crime, regardless of the fairness of the law. The purpose of my intervention is very simple: please, as you tighten your pains, do what the current code already allows; do a preventive work. I think no one would respect speed limits if there was no concern for speed cameras. The increased expenditure on more controls would be very much repaid and the fines that would be paid to the subsidiaries would probably produce an asset. Beyond the law, which seems to me to be a bit bad, therefore, let us try to do a real prevention work to try to achieve the only useful result for our country and, that is, to reduce the number of fatal road accidents.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u46	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u47	As the rapporteur does not intend to speak in his reply, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government and authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment, which I am going to present, entirely replacing the text of draft law No 859-1357-1378-1484-1553-B. [[Ironic applause from Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u49	I suspend the sitting and immediately convene the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 7.43 p.m. and resumed at 8.11 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u50	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the draft law on criminal law on road murder. For the debate on trust, which will take place in the afternoon sitting of tomorrow, one hour and thirty minutes were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. Explanations of vote will take place at approximately 11 a.m. He'll follow you. As already announced to the parliamentary groups on the short lines, at the meeting of tomorrow's Question Time at 4 p.m., the Minister for Simplification and Public Administration, Mrs Maria Anna Madia, will answer questions on the following subjects: reorganisation of central and territorial public administrations; reform of the rules of public employment and management.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u53	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, today I would like to point out the situation of the Saeco plant in Gaggio Montano, in the medium and high Rhine Valley, in the Tuscan-Emilian Apennines, in Bologna, which has been systematically emptied of work opportunities for years. In this plant today 558 people work and many of them are couples, husband and wife, because the valley no longer offers much. In 2009, the multinational Royal Philips Electronics took over the company 100%. Then it was thought that it was good to be part of a world giant! Nothing more wrong! Today Philips announces that there are 243 redundancies in Saeco: 243 heads to cut. Since 1981 Saeco has given these hardworking citizens of Emilia the opportunity to build with great pride the first automatic coffee machines for the home! From the ingenuity of Italian entrepreneurs yet another great idea, first in the world, from which a huge world market has developed that has seen the protagonist Saeco, up to currently holding 30% of the European market for electronic coffee machines. A company known worldwide. Who does not remember, for example, Saeco in cycling, when the champion Cipollini cut victorious goals! This is our Made in Italy! That of which many politicians fill their mouths, except then sell it to multinational companies that arrive, snatch the brand and then go to relocate elsewhere, maybe in Romania as Philips now does with Saeco, at labor costs and protection rules increasingly down! The property complains about the decline in the market, but, be careful, the market in question is not watering down, since in Romania production continues to increase to produce 400,000 machines per year, and also high-end, contrary to what was in the initial agreements. In Italy, however, everything is cut, including the necessary technical assistance for the sector. The desire to lay off would therefore, once again, be determined by mere profit assessments, the side effect of a globalization without rules, which sees people not as human beings but as numbers to be exploited more and more to the bone. Mr President, yesterday, the day of the Immaculate Lady, I was with them, at their garrison, so that I could touch their despair with my hand, and take charge of bringing the same despair back to this House. Mr President, the Saeco workers asked me to bring their voice here today: they want to continue working! They ask if from these classrooms one understands the war that unleashes: poor versus poor, where even among them they risk looking at each other in dog, wondering how to stay on the side of the miraculous, occupyingly speaking. They ask me if this state understands all this, and what the government intends to do to safeguard their dignity. A first negotiating table will be held at the Ministry of Economic Development on Friday. A petition was also launched on the Net to be brought to the President of the Council, who in just five days obtained almost 11,000 signatures. As a state we have a duty to take charge of all our fellow citizens! As a 5 Star Movement we immediately activated ourselves, both at the House and at local level, through our local and regional advisors. I myself am filing a question with the ministries of competence. Mr President, I should like to end by saying that already now the Saeco workers have invited Minister Poletti and the President of the Council to Gaggio Montano, perhaps to offer them a coffee made in Italy, hoping that in the meantime it will not become a Romanian coffee! We're waiting for them. And I conclude with their scream of battle: the Saeco does not touch! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u54	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-550.ana.u55	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 10 December, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.18 p.m.
