ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 3 December.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft law No 859-1357-1378-1484-1553-B, already approved by the Senate in a text resulting from the unification of the own-initiative drafts of Senators Scilipoti Isgrò; Falanga; Moscardelli and others; Stucchi; Ginetti; and modified by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report, a preliminary question was rejected, the general discussion took place and the representative of the Government raised the question of confidence in the adoption of amendment 1,700, which was entirely a substitute for the text of draft law No 859-1357-1378-1484-1553-B.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u9	Mr President, I will steal very little time. I think we have reached Parliamentary paradoxism, a moment of exasperation through which the question of trust arises on a bill that starts directly... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u10	Senator Di Maggio, please continue: colleagues will of course allow you to make your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u11	IN MAY (CoR). Thank you. As I said, we have come to a sort of parliamentary paradoxism, so the question of trust is raised on draft laws that depart from Parliament and on a matter that frankly seems to me to be appalling for the intelligence of the Members of Parliament. I would like to recall a slogan so dear to the left, which said: If not now How can such violence be endured on an issue on which frankly there is really no reason to put the question of trust? [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] Looking at the work done in the Commission and hearing also the Commissioners of the majority party agree on many of the instances that the opposition had put forward, I wonder how we can, in a situation like this, put the question of trust on an issue that frankly seems to be laughable. I say this because then we are also looking for justifications for repeated and closed behavior compared to what should be the parliamentary dynamic. What is behind such a provision? Perhaps the lobbyists of bicycle manufacturers who insist that this measure be promulgated? I don't know. It is also ridiculous to seek justification for the request for a vote of confidence. Of course, in a situation like this, counterpositions are exasperating. We cannot always accuse ourselves of being those who do not want reforms. As I said yesterday in the general debate, we are always trying to make legislation a form of advertising, of what we have unfortunately been used to for a long time, of the coming, gentlemen, of the coming. It is not possible, that is, to give a vengeful answer with what should be a legal provision. We cannot always legislate with belly and never with intelligence. Having said that, with regard to the question of trust, the Conservatives and Reformists Group cannot but acknowledge the umpteenth violence perpetrated against the proper legislative functioning of the Chambers and I believe that, as the colleague who will then make the explanation of vote, we will be unable (and in this situation at least) to give confidence to the Government in an act like this. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u12	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u13	Mr President, the large amendment tabled in a hurry by the Government on road murder shows that the criticism of almost all the parliamentary groups of the text that came out of the House was more than justified. Needless to say, it was better to avoid the use of confidence in a parliamentary initiative measure which, because of its implications, would have the need to be approved by the widest possible majority of Parliament. Evidently, when you make a propaganda commercial then you put yourself in a position to bring it to the bottom, no matter what it costs, at the expense of the legislative quality, even if the citizens will pay the price, in this case the 20 million motorists who leave the house every morning to accompany their children to school or to go to work and who risk, for a driving error, years and years of jail, because this measure does not distinguish sufficiently the pirate of the road or the criminal who drugs and then gets behind the wheel from who for an episode distraction causes death or injury to others. This maxi amendment only partially corrects the very serious anomalies of the text fired by the House, widening the mitigating factors when the responsibility for the accident is not all of the accused, extending the compulsory arrest in flagency to professional drivers even in case of "average" drunkenness - by the way, safeguarding precisely those who drive by profession was a clear absurdity - and withdrawing the "long" license also for those who have a non-Italian driving license. The most important novelty is the cases in which there is competition of guilt, which involves the reduction of the sentence up to half. You will be entitled to it whenever the responsibility is not only of the culprit, while in the text of the House this was only provided when it emerges a manslaughter behavior of the victim. The driver charged could therefore not benefit from half the penalty even in case of fault of third parties, for example the road-owner body that often puts the driver in a position to make mistakes. The fact that we have corrected the most gross errors, in part re-introduced the legislation that emerged from the first reading of the Senate, is not sufficient to say that we are faced with a balanced law. Actually. In fact, the new offences introduced do not meet the requirement of reasonableness that the use of legislative discretion must comply with the principle of proportionality between unlawful and sanction. It remains in all its gravity, in short, the discrepancy between the extent of the penalty imposed for road murder and personal road injuries in relation to the minimum edittal limits laid down for other cases of manslaughter such as the murder committed in violation of the discipline of accidents at work or serious medical fault. As for the impact of the driver's escape, planned for both road murder and personal road injuries, there remain profiles of inconsistencies that will emerge mainly in the application. In fact, in case of escape, an increase of the penalty from a third to two thirds is expected, but at the same time a minimum edittale higher than twice the minimum expected for the crime committed without aggravating. The paradoxical effect of an abnormal and, in any case, proportionally greater than the more serious assumptions is thus determined in the case of less serious cases. Therefore, today you will approve a much awaited law, but excessively repressive and punitive, which criminalizes in a draconian way even those who are not drunk, nor drugged. When for a tenth of a point of alcohol content more or less found in the blood you risk years and years in prison, it would be necessary to base on certain elements, that they come from complete and unattainable surveys by the Forces of the order and scientificly exact evaluations: all things that Italy too often cannot afford, being lacking the presence of the police forces and the necessary instruments. In conclusion, lawmaking on the wave of emotion is never a good thing because we risk, as in this case, producing laws that do not hold to the principles of law, nor to the cornerstones of our constitutional order, with the ultimate risk of doing a favor to street criminals who can appeal to the unconstitutionality of the norm. And that would be the biggest mockery. [[Applause from the AL-A Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u14	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u15	Mr President, we are basically faced with a gratuitous and inappropriate confidence because it is based on a bill of parliamentary initiative and on a sensitive issue such as the punishment of murder. This morning I see a great agitation in this House on my right, and I understand that there is a great deal of stomachache in dealing with this vote of confidence. We'll see what happens with the numbers, the absences, the quorum, who goes and who comes. For the time being, however, it would be welcome if colleagues would at least let the few who still have the courage to speak on this bill. [[Brusio in the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u16	I would ask colleagues to lower their voices.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u17	Please, Senator Mussini. MUSSINI (Mixed). As I said, this is an inappropriate and gratuitous confidence. Murder is considered, historically and anthropologically, the most serious crime for any pattern and form of law and on which one cannot afford to act in a reckless, inappropriate and, in this case, undemocratic way. I say 'undemocratic' because, in essence, with this maxi amendment, there is more coordination than an operation with which to deal with the issues which, in the course of the general discussion, have given rise to doubts in the context of the measure. The question is why this free trust has been raised. I would like to reiterate what was said at yesterday's sitting. The confidence was on purpose because this is a measure of the chief, who just over a year ago said: Today things have changed profoundly, not for the family that continues to feel the weight of an absence, but they have changed because today we are here, we are in Rome, in Palazzo Chigi and we have the responsibility to make sure that what happened does not remain without consequences. Today, when you are to remember Lorenzo's birthday, I make a commitment: road murder and life imprisonment are two measures that Parliament has already begun to examine. Parliament is now debating. I remind you of the even corraced questions of the family, to some of these we are able to answer them. We are voting on a fair and important subject, especially in order to respond, with this vote of confidence, to the promise that the President-in-Office of the Council has made. There is a judge at Palazzo Chigi who, in a single blow, managed to concentrate in his hands the executive, legislative and judicial powers. The judge of Palazzo Chigi has decided that this Parliament must legislate exactly in the manner and in the times that he has established. I do not think anyone can escape that all of this primarily determines the total lack of democratic culture; I repeat: the total lack of democratic culture. I am not throwing alarm over the democratic emergency, but this is certainly a lack of democratic culture. It is also certainly a lack of legislative culture, because in the small corrections made some points are taken care of, such as the issue of the foreigner's leadership. I see, however, for example, an aspect that fills me with concern and I hope that someone will have the courage to stand up and reassure me. With reference to the correction concerning the driver who does not stop (in practice, the rescue omission), I did two counts. If someone, completely drunk, hits another person and runs away, it says here that, however, he will have an aggravating factor that cannot be less than five years old. The present case also covers alcohol rates of two different natures. Let's take the most serious case. In the case of higher alcohol levels, edittal penalties are between eight and twelve years old. If a person escapes, he suffers an aggravating factor that cannot be under the age of five. If it escapes and then is constituted and its alcohol content, for physiological reasons, has disappeared, it falls in the case of the first paragraph: from two to seven years. If the five years of the attack are higher with the two of the minimum penalty (two to seven years) the result is seven, which is always less than eight years, which is the minimum edittal penalty for those who are caught with a high alcohol content. So I have to think that maybe someone might even think that it's more convenient to run away. In the uncertainty of whether or not the hit person was killed, he might as well escape. I, aware of my limitations in the knowledge of all the folds of law (which you can definitely not say about who writes these texts), hope someone gets up and tells me that it is not so, that there is some reason why it is not so. If in this text it were to remain any hypothesis for which someone might think it would be more convenient to run away, rather than to stop and have analyses done that then have a high alcohol content, then this is not only a useless law, but it is also a potentially and profoundly harmful law. We are called here to intervene, instead of leaving everything to the collective intelligence and skills, which in any case have not been put at the service of a political will, but of a need recognized as right: to put an end to bad habits; habits that are still cultivated by too many Italians and are those of a reckless guide and that can put in trouble, as we see every day on our roads. This is a sure will of this House. We are faced with an amendment that bears the signature of Maria Elena Boschi. That sounds like his signature to me. If this measure were to prove not only useless but even harmful now, thanks to this vote of confidence, we have a name and surname to ask for. And it is not enough to say that we approve of it and then we will change it, because in more than 20 years of teaching I fought for the opposite. There is no "terrorism": especially when dealing with the lives of others, the terror does not exist. I'd like to see which one of you is going to have surgery by a surgeon who says to do a little work in the meantime and then, if something doesn't work, go back. Things are good. Things try to do them in the best way possible, especially when it comes to people's lives: both those who risk, because they can stay on the road, not be assisted and therefore die (and there is the pain of families around these people), and when it comes to ascertaining the responsibilities and punishing in the right way those who have put themselves in the condition of causing an accident. Well, this isn't allowed to be a terrorist. There will never be enough deepening here. And today's confidence is a bad sign of how legislation is viewed. We'll fix the terror, but that's not how we do it. That's a bad example. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u20	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for clarification. The Assembly was not informed that the Conference of Leaders was convened at 10 a.m. I would therefore ask you to inform me about this and to suspend the work, as has always been the case up to now.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u21	The Conference of Leaders is at 10 a.m., but I knew that the Groups agreed to continue the discussion on trust during the Conference of Leaders. Your Group is not of this opinion, of course. AIROLA (M5S). Do things between you, it's not a problem! It's up to you! That is an insult, you insult this House! [[Protests of Senators Airola and Centinaire. Comments of Senator De Petris]] Since the Mixed Group and the Northern League Group also disagree with the continuation of work and call for a suspension of the session, work will be suspended when the Conference of Leaders takes place. Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on a reform which I think is very important. It is a reform that will mark in our country the existence of a before and after and that will be able to change the same approach to the leadership of many citizens. This reform really has an ambitious goal of saving lives. The approach to driving our country can no longer be the same, but it must be more prudent, more responsible and more attentive, because we can no longer accept that the thousands of victims of road accidents in our country are considered an inevitable evil. We can no longer tolerate that those responsible for road murder, perhaps as a result of drug abuse or alcohol abuse, get away with it because of inadequate legislation, both in terms of sanctions and deterrents. But this measure also contains some errors and imperfections; the changes made at the last minute are nothing more than proof of this. We are pleased that these changes have taken place, which are going to remedy the obvious errors of the measure; errors which we in the 5 Star Movement have repeatedly denounced, both in the Commission and yesterday in the debate in this House. There are also other mistakes in this text, which could easily have been remedied by adopting a few more targeted amendments, if you and the Government had not put their trust. For example, this measure generally increases penalties, both prison and ancillary (of course we are talking about the lifting of the licence); this is in the right direction. But this law will paradoxically also cause the opposite result: that is, it will allow the reduction of the penalties already foreseen today for the street murder, if the sinful happens with the contest of guilt. This substantial reduction in sentence will also apply retroactively to ongoing processes because of the favourable outcome. In short, there is a masked adult in a norm that should simply go in the opposite direction. Secondly, this rule does not consider the possibility of criminal sanctions alternative to prison detention. It would have taken more courage, considering also the hypothesis of different and innovative penalties for the less serious facts, such as the custody of social services, the rehabilitation services for road injuries, the services of assistance to the person and hospital assistance compulsory; sanctions to be associated of course with that accessory of the revocation of the license. Thirdly, the risk of unconstitutionality of the rule is present not so much and not only with regard to compliance with the fees of reasonableness and proportionality of penalties, which were also mentioned in the opinion of the 1st Commission, but rather with regard to the burden of flight which, because of its wording, could have the paradoxical effect of a greater increase in punishment in the less serious cases compared to the more serious ones. Certainly it would have been a mistake, for this majority, not to remedy the shortcomings of the norm in order to avoid a new reading in the House. Majority and government have demonstrated to the whole country, with the Boccadutri law, approved by both branches of Parliament in just fifteen days, that when there is the political will to approve a measure, the shuttle between the Chambers certainly does not represent a problem of time. But the question of trust makes it impossible to further improve this text; a matter of confidence which we do not understand, because it would serve to limit the obstructionism of oppositions, obstructionism which obviously does not exist. We can only stigmatize, therefore, even if there is a further redirection of the measure to the House, the fact that the majority did not allow the debate on the amendments, which could have significantly improved the final text further. In conclusion, although it can be improved, this measure is an instrument to counter the very sad record of fatal road accidents in our country. Human life is the absolute good to which we can only direct our commitment. We owe it to the many, too many deaths that have stained the streets of our country with their blood. We owe it to the many, too many injured by road accidents. We owe it to the many associations of relatives of the victims of the road, who have done so much to bring home this result. We owe it to all Italian citizens who have been waiting for years for a law capable of severely sanctioning those who put themselves at the wheel of drunk or drug addicts, or who are guilty of serious violations of the highway code. In fact, to adopt these unholy behaviors also means consciously to consider killing. And therefore, as such, these very serious behaviors must be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u24	About what, Senator? AIROLA (M5S). The order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to know whether a Conference of the Leaders is really taking place.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u25	There is no group leader, we are proceeding with the debate. AIROLA (M5S). And, then, why... president. It is not in progress: a problem has been raised and I replied that the Conference of Leaders is not there. Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the presentation of the matter of trust... AIROLA (M5S). She said it before! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's gone. AIROLA (M5S). So you're wrong? [[Comments]] Why don't you fuck off? And now give me ten days of suspension, now that you've heard the word "ass"! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u26	Mr President, I would like to speak as if the Senate of the Republic still existed and not taking note that it has already been deleted. Unfortunately, this confidence raises a question of merit and a question of method. The method is that the Senate, in fact, is cancelled. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, you will remember that in June, the Senate had not only spoken on this subject, but had done so after a passionate debate in this House on a fundamental issue. For road murder, the sentence of up to eighteen years in prison must be attributed as a sanction to those who put themselves in a position of eventual dole, that is to harm themselves and others (the drunk, the drug addict, who goes at a mad speed), or - as was once said to the military - the message of this measure is: "are you worried"? Basically, anyone who drives a car, with all the good faith and prudence in the world, is a family mother who takes children to school, a business agent, and a newly-patented boy, who can go to jail for what had been written and taken away by us for up to eighteen years. In fact, the drug addict, the drunk or the one who goes at a crazy speed to those who, for the sun in their eyes, do not see the traffic light, to those who in the days of fog in Val Padana - it happens very often - can take a road in the opposite direction because they do not see the sign of prohibition: it happens to the elder and also to the young. According to this provision, if someone in an accident kills a person then he has to serve 18 years in prison. This is a measure made for the driver, who can circulate in a quiet car, without thinking of suffering consequences for his behavior. When this measure is approved, any normal Italian citizen who will use a machine will know that he has a question mark on his life. It will be enough not so much imprudence or negligence, but fatality to ruin his life forever. And - as I said yesterday - I feel like saying all this because for 20 years I have been on the front line, along with friends of the Road Police and Biserni, president of ASAPS, promoting campaigns against the massacres of Saturday night, for road safety, and the Drug on street protocol, the first started with drugs, to control in the streets, from midnight until six o'clock in the morning, all those who could drive drunk or in the grip of drugs. This twenty - year activity has produced extraordinary results: we have increased from 8,000 deaths a year to 3,000. To so many of those who now realize there's an emergency. [[Brusio.]] Sorry, President, but I can't do my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u27	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u28	[[Senator Airola's comments.]] GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Those who realize today that there is an emergency of road accidents ask where they were when they recorded tens of thousands of deaths a year. Where was Parliament when it rejected my rules on Saturday night massacres, preventing even four o'clock in the morning from banning the distribution of alcohol and super alcohol to 18-year-olds? Where was Parliament when it rejected these rules? I am glad that Parliament has become aware of the problem and feels that more needs to be done, because 3,000 people a year represent something extremely serious to pay. I did, however, remember yesterday - sometimes with some colleagues many times we have been passionate about this - that, when there is a car accident, there is always a victim, and many times the victim is also the cause of the accident. Yesterday I remembered a boy whose story struck me because, having twice had the misfortune to run into such a case, he committed suicide, hanging himself, unable to bear the burden of guilt and the responsibility of having caused road accidents. And how many families of street victims have we met who have suffered uncancellable trauma? How many times have we met families of people who have caused a car accident and who, in turn, have had their lives ruined because of guilt and why have they had to respond from a civil point of view? The question I asked yesterday and which I also put to the government today is then: when you put in jail for 18 years a person who passed with the red light or perhaps imprudently did a reversal of march, what resolved? The rule of minimum detention from eight to twelve years of age, what purpose does it have? What's that for? It serves what the government representatives have said. The rule is wrong and both yesterday and today all the speakers have highlighted a series of castroneries and contradictions from the criminal point of view, so perhaps it is punished more severely those who have had less responsibility. This morning we heard - we will verify, but probably so - that the runaway has every interest in doing so because, when he is caught, he will no longer be drunk and can no longer be subjected to the test for which he will suffer a lower penalty than those who are caught drunk immediately after the accident. A series of things are neither in heaven nor on earth. What did the members of the government say? We have to give a signal, and in the meantime, we make a wrong law. Colleagues senators, laws are made, especially on such delicate topics, because they last for twenty years. We do not make a law of the duration of two months and already in departure we declare to the newspapers that it is wrong and the Government is aware of the mistakes, but in the meantime we approve it because we have to put a flag, we have to give a signal to the country. The laws are made to give a signal to the country? Laws are done to solve problems. The laws, technically, must be built to provide an effective response to a problem that exists. Sometimes I love to address my colleague Sergio Zavoli, always present in the Chamber and representative of a Christian-Socialist humanism. I would also like to know from him, perhaps outside this House, what is the point of introducing sanctions of this kind into our system, involving people who are less guilty. And I repeat that, in case of maliciousness, to be blamed to those who put themselves in the car after getting drunk or drugged, or to the street pirates, whom we know well and go at crazy speeds in the historic centers, on the highway or in the urban and provincial roads, we all feel a feeling of anger, claiming that these must be neutralized. In your opinion, however, who goes 30 kilometers an hour and, because of the fog, takes a road of forbidden meaning in the city and maybe meets a cyclist, must serve twelve years in prison? I ask this question because the Government has put the question of confidence in the measure under consideration and, therefore, asks us to vote for confidence in an obnoxious one. Announcement, then, from now on (of course on a personal basis and on behalf of my colleagues Augello, Compañera and Quagliariello: then there will be those who will make the explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of the New Right Centrostra), that we do not feel able to vote on a measure that is profoundly wrong, for reasons of fundamental merit and also of method. The time has come for it to end: the Government puts its trust in matters of criminal importance, in total contrast with what was expressed yesterday by Parliament. At yesterday's sitting, in general discussion, all the speeches were critical of the draft law that came to the Assembly, coming from the Chamber of Deputies. We would have expected in the maxi amendment the elimination of the obnoxiousness of hitting in the pile, threatening years and years in prison. When the provision becomes law, millions of people, every morning they use the car, will be terrified of the consequences that may arise in the event of an accident. In the maxi amendment, only two very small changes have been made, and this is still the essence of the measure, namely to equalise an accidental case, which can happen to everyone in life, to behaviours that must be sanctioned with force. That is why I would like to say that the four Members of this House will vote against confidence. [[Applause from Senators Albertini and Malan]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u30	Mr President, in yesterday's general debate there were many specific and timely criticisms of the drafting of this measure and that, of course, it was with the best intentions. In the face of such criticism, however, we would expect, in the parliamentary debate - by definition - at least to explain why they consider themselves unfounded and should be overcome. We could perhaps say that our concern is overcome, because in a particular paragraph we foresee a rule that solves the problem that we have highlighted, or that criticism is unfounded, because in practice it does not happen what we have said in general debate. But that was not the case, because the rapporteur has given up his reply and the Minister for relations with Parliament has come to the House to put the question of trust, without worrying about saying a single word about the substance, not having explained at all why criticism is supposed to be unfounded - it is assumed that criticism is considered unfounded, otherwise there would not have been any confidence in what has been criticized - or explaining - in this House or outside of here - the reasons why confidence has been placed, apart from the fact that we have to go ahead. We must, therefore, go on until we adopt an unconstitutional law, which will have the opposite effect to the one we want, namely to properly punish those who, by keeping serious and seriously dangerous behaviors in the lead, cause death or serious injury to people, which is not always the case today. The risk is to obtain the result that those who actually should adopt these serious behaviors and for them should be condemned, can then appeal to the unconstitutionality of a law that presents the numerous profiles of unreasonableness already mentioned by colleagues. Among these, one of the main ones is that if someone should happen to invest a person having a higher alcohol content than allowed (or, even more so, under the effect of drugs) he might think of fleeing and not helping, perhaps causing the death of the investor: the combination of the penalties provided for by this provision in fact gives rise to such madness! On the other hand, we have a very high probability of inflicting penalties that often do not give themselves to those who willingly and premeditatedly kill in other ways, to people who cause death or serious injury to others for distraction or for minimal violations of the highway code. Of course, they must be punished, because you cannot pass over certain legends, but you cannot punish a person so harshly that, by mere distraction and by violations not so blatantly dangerous of the road code, he stumbles into such an event. It is indeed the opposite of what the law must do. A fatal road accident is still a disgrace and that is clear. It is a disgrace, because a person loses his life and his family are deprived of his affection and, at times, of essential support. But to this tragedy another is added: one destroys the life of a person who did not even intend to hold dangerous behaviors to the point of endangering the life of others. And this is a tragedy perpetrated by the State, in the name of the Italian people and for the responsibility of those who, trust or not, will vote on this bill. But there's more. The text is full of ambiguity and, therefore, creates uncertainty in the interpretation of the law, which is exactly the opposite of what the law itself must pursue. The law, especially when it should have a deterrent character, must be particularly clear and it must be clear what the consequences are to certain behaviors. And I leave aside the fact - as has been said by those who intervened before me - that there are situations in which the culprit even commits suicide because of guilt, for having destroyed his own life having caused, quite unintentionally, the death of someone in a car accident. Thinking about solving this by increasing your penis is clearly crazy. But clarity is absolutely missing in the text and I refer to the expression 'guilt'. From what I understand in the passages in the Commission and in the previous examination in this House, where - for example - in the first paragraph of Article 589-a, it says: "Anyone who is guilty of the death of a person who is in breach of the rules on road traffic shall be entitled to interpret the rule in the sense that the offence is a violation of the rules. And, therefore, if there is an accident and a person dies with a violation of a rule - which does not mean because of that violation - automatically becomes fault. So I make a paradoxical but realistic example: in many streets of our circular country after November 15 without being fitted with snow chains is a violation of the rules of the road code. If, circulating on those same roads on a beautiful day of sunshine and with 20 degrees centigrade, an accident occurs and a person dies, this is not due to the fact that there were no snow chains in the trunk of the car. Yet, there is a violation, so those who have caused death with violation, because the violation is there, are blamed. And it is possible that this happens, because there is a lot of creativity in the interpretation of much clearer laws than this, which is rather ambiguous. Every time it's written on it, there's this ambiguity. And there is - for example - talking about penalties from five to ten years, when it is said that the penalty applies: The driver of a motor vehicle who, following a manoeuvre to reverse the direction of travel near or at intersections, curves or bumps or as a result of overtaking another vehicle at pedestrian crossing or continuous line, causes the death of a person. What do you mean, "A follow-up"? Reference is made to a driver who makes a gear reversal (which he shouldn't do) in one of those areas, and again it should be defined what a curve is, because there are curves with huge visibility and others that do not have such a condition. The rule, then, reads: ==References====External links==* Official website However, with the continuous line, if you stay inside the lane, you can overcome [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] Yet, if an accident in which someone dies follows this, the penalty is from five to ten years of imprisonment without any clarity, as the law does not establish that it is because someone has made a reversal of march in a dangerous place, but after that. How do you write a law like that? How do you know, Mr. Representative of the Government, that you are not the one who put the confidence, and the majority, in voting on such a measure? The government has a lot of confidence, but the person who votes this obnoxiousness is personally responsible. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] The fact that the Government places trust does not take away responsibility from the Member, who is free in his mandate, and that means he is responsible. So tell the government to withdraw trust and approve a proper law. Otherwise, the responsibility is yours and the lives that will be destroyed by this law will be destroyed by you, dear colleagues. I'm sorry to say that. Then there are grotesque provisions. The penalty has increased by a third - and we are already talking about penalties of five or ten years, so one third of those sanctions is already something quite serious - if the person does not have a driving licence, or has a suspended or revoked licence. It is not clear whether the case in which the driver has an expired driving licence falls within the scope of this case. We appeal - hopefully - to the common sense of the judge, who, however, with all good faith and good will, how can he understand whether the expired licence is part of these cases? It is true that it is not revoked or suspended, but if I have a licence which has expired for a day or ten years by definition I do not have a licence: I have a piece of paper on which it is written, but it has expired; but it is also true that it is neither suspended nor revoked. In that case is the increase of a third of the sentence applied? You don't understand. Years of jail are given as peanuts because you have to make it fast, because Mr. Renzi wants to tweet with the hashtag "Lavoltabuona" and, in return, you command years of punishment in a completely arbitrary and doubtful way. Even more grotesque is the fact that the vehicle is without compulsory insurance, but must be registered to the driver. In this case, too, we do not understand what it has to do with whether or not we have compulsory insurance. It is clear that, if he is nothing, things change; but if he has something, like a house, the fruit of a life of savings or inheritance, he is not a lieutenant: consequently, if he causes serious injury to a person, in addition to suffering the penalty, even if he does not have insurance, he must still pay the damages. If that person has insurance, then, he takes five years in prison; if he doesn't have insurance he will take maybe six years and eight months and he will have to give all his assets (he takes away the house), because he must answer for the fact that he doesn't have insurance. But does it make sense to strike like this? What does the insurance expired have to do with the fact that a person lost his life? It is truly grotesque, incredible, and fittingly - unfortunately the Government is not grotesque and incredible only in this - being an obscene measure, the Government, which is carrying out obscene policies, raises the question of trust. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u31	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u34	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, already in the past passage of this draft law, the Conservative and Reformist Group had stated that it was in favour of the introduction of an independent crime involving the so-called road murder. But, at the same time, he had expressed his abstention because of the various uncertainties and the obvious inconsistencies of the sanctioning regime, as articulated in the bill. However, those concerns which were highlighted last June have been accentuated and have become even more evident, from a legal point of view, after the examination and the changes made by the House. Senator Palma, yesterday and all the other colleagues who have spoken, pointed out all the contradictions and problems that can arise from the text we are discussing today. Therefore, in my explanation of vote, I do not want to repeat what has already been said. I note, however, that the bill, despite the two previous readings, does not solve the problem of the disproportion of sanctions and the harmonization of the new case of road murder with a series of constitutional principles and with different rules of criminal law in force. We were and are in favour of resolving, even with the introduction of new cases and stricter sanctions, the sad phenomenon of massacres and unjustified deaths on the roads. However, what we produced in the previous two passages does not correspond to what we wanted. It is right and necessary to use the weapon of deterency, but behind this method one cannot devise a system of rules and sanctions illogical and distonic with respect to general principles repeatedly reaffirmed by the Supreme Court and the Consulta. The deterrent effect of the new rules can certainly favour a reduction in the number of road victims only if the penalties that should be paid will exceed the scrutiny of the different degrees of judgment and will be really applicable in everyday practice in every palace of justice. But alongside this objective of emotional deterrent, the ultimate goal of prevention and protection of human life should also have been achieved. In this sense, rather than merely contradicting and perhaps ephemeral aggravates of punishment - if, for example, the sinister occurs after a certain hour - it could give impetus to a whole series of other measures. Think of police control, patrolling some places (disco, pub, strategic points), better use of local police, prevention activities for proper administration of alcoholic substances in public premises, with positive and contemporary effects also for the protection of minors. Of course, in order to achieve this, together with mere declarations of principle or the easy introduction of new cases, the Government would have had to find the necessary and appropriate resources. But this has not happened and, therefore, it is much easier to think of penalties being aggravated at zero cost and the proliferation of sanctions than to raise the problem of prevention. I just want to remind you on this occasion of the vexed question of the revenue from the sanctions relating to the road code, which should go to local police and other police forces and which, on the other hand, as far as local authorities are concerned, are used to plug the budget gaps, and, as far as police forces are concerned, we do not know where the state accounts go. Even more could be achieved - as was the case with motorway traffic - with the mandatory introduction of new technologies on cars. Think of the front collision alarm systems with automatic brake, as well as - I said - on the highways could happen because of the tutor, i.e. the alignment devices that help the driver not to leave the lane and warn him when sleepy or distracted. The indictment of the driver with the provision of limited sanctions of freedom equal to those established for the pre-terintentional murder (eight years in the case of the death of one person and the injury of another, according to the version of article 589- bis) can be a way to meet the founded - I emphasize grounded - demands coming from public opinion and from the various associations of the victims of the road. Certainly from a strictly legal point of view, however, it does not appear to be the appropriate instrument to prevent the deaths on the road, especially if the sanctioning system reveals the flaws and the defiances on which many other colleagues have dwelt during the general discussion. I leave aside, for the love of the Government, any consideration of the vote of confidence that is even used this time to reform the code of the road. There is now no provision, bill or act before this House that does not go through the instrument of a vote of confidence. This is always the case, in contempt of Parliament's prerogatives. And this can happen in a logic of a more efficient state where there really is a government that represents in the consensus at least a good part, half of the public opinion and voters. But when you barely represent yourself, with a coalition a little bit patched up at the parliamentary level, no more than 30%, I think it's just an act of arrogance and even using it to make changes to the road code is really something you can't tolerate. For all the reasons I have so far pointed out, I confirm the abstention vote of the Conservatives and Reformists Group. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u37	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, unfortunately, we are once again calling for a vote of confidence on a measure which, among other things, has content of a criminal nature, which is very delicate, and with a path that we consider to be absolutely unsatisfying, especially in the last few moments of debate. We, as a Group of the North Legacy, have long advocated, we support, insist on the introduction of a measure concerning the so-called road murder, which - let us remember - already exists in our system. But we had also presented draft laws aimed at obtaining a tightening of penalties, especially as regards road murder, that is, the death caused by a driving behaviour of those who are intoxicated or under the influence of drugs. The demand for justice that is being addressed to us, and requested by the citizen who is particularly indignant in the face of certain episodes, is precisely the driving in the drunken state and under the effects of drugs. And in general discussion of the measure, we have emphasized why it must be punished with particular severity those who put themselves under the influence of drugs or totally drunk and cause death. When one decides to drink and then takes the lead, he knows that by doing so, he can put his own life and that of others at risk. And, therefore, the conduct is hardly to be considered manslaughter, but it reaches almost the borders of a dole, at least indirect. It is for this reason, then, that we were asking that this course be particularly punished. And that's why we thought that whoever committed a murder at least did not have to see the driver's license anymore (there was talk of driving life and very strict measures). A measure such as this, which we share in the objectives - we too are of the view that a certain type of penalty must be tightened - has presented and presents numerous technical errors and also profiles of unconstitutionality, which is very serious. There is no point in enacting a law if we cannot rely on the fact that it can be applied, that it has its efficiency aspects and that it is not then challenged before the Constitutional Court. It is useless to keep driving and of any kind in life when we do not know what is the criminal law that incriminates us. When it comes to the certainty of punishment, we're not talking about speeches that only the doctors of law, the university professors like. When it comes to the certainty of punishment, it means that when a person does something, he knows what he is facing. Standards of difficult reading and interpretation become difficult to apply. A bad rule doesn't mean it doesn't exist, but it doesn't become efficient. But then we say there's a chance. Until proven otherwise, Parliament should carry out legislation-making activities. We, as a Parliament, should be the ones to prepare them. We should not be mere executors of government wills. In this respect, there has been a clear attitude in the Commission. In fact, in the Commission, more than one senator, and also the President himself, has highlighted some critical issues. Almost all of the amendments have been rejected, while the vote of confidence is required here on a large amendment which, in the end, has accepted two proposals from the North League, as well as from other representatives. Why did we not vote for these amendments in the Commission? We could have come to this House with a shared text that we could further adjust. Why would it be almost like recognizing a merit to someone who is not the Government? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]] Or perhaps it was absolutely necessary for this provision to be called Renzi? Why must you necessarily call Renzi? But then remember that this measure, called Renzi, provides for an attack with penalties of more than ten years for those who commit - yes - a road homicide, but perhaps has no insurance and, therefore, it is a purely economic issue concerning civil law and the compensation aspects. This is something that is still included in the text when we examine it. Luckily, at least, it has been corrected to that mess - let me pass the expression - to that corbelleria that was the contest of guilt, a problem that has been resolved. And then let's see how the proposal was accepted, which the President has repeatedly stressed and, going to the media, maybe we realized what the effect could be, regarding the unequal treatment between holders of Italian and foreign citizens' licences. At least this problem has been solved. However, it remains an excessive regulatory system, not proportionate, which answers some questions, but perhaps also creates many others. I remember today's news: in Vicenza a family doctor, who had hit a person and was subjected to a trial for manslaughter, did not stand up and committed suicide yesterday. He was a family doctor. How many cases will happen perhaps because of the fog, or because of a reversal, a red traffic light not seen, or for the assurance that, perhaps due to financial problems, who has to manage a family has failed to pay and then finds himself having to go to jail for real? That's what we're talking about. Some say that it is better to approve this measure in the meantime, because it will be fixed later. It is irresponsible, because when we are dealing with a problem, a proposal, we must conclude it and we must do it in the best possible way, not thinking, then, of waiting for future adjustments. We, therefore, will not participate in the vote of confidence. We will not participate for the following reasons: the provision on road murder we want it. We want serious and strict penalties to be imposed and enforced. We want to punish the behavior of those who get behind the wheel drunk and then kill people, who destroy lives for a glass of wine. We cannot, however, take a vote of confidence, which is probably being asked to prevent something special coming up in this House, because perhaps some secret votes could be proposed or because someone more than us, even in the majority, realized that this measure is not right and perhaps there is a fear that something will happen. That is why we will not vote. When parliamentary activity is put in communication with the outside world, unfortunately it happens that the truth does not always pass. We will not vote because this government will never have the confidence of the North League. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This position must not, however, be exploited by claiming that the North League has said no because it is not in favour of introducing the crime of road murder into the law. We do not want to fall into the pitfalls that can be created with the mechanisms that you insist on putting in place. I repeat that the Senators of the Lega Nord Group will not take part in the vote of confidence and, if you think you have the paternity of this provision, those on whom the sanctions you are preparing to introduce will notice. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u38	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Parisian Institute "Angelo Poliziano" in Rome, who are attending our work and whom we thank for their visit to the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u41	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, the vote of confidence has a political sense in itself, and that is why it is also a political vote. I believe that, since the creation of our parliamentary group, we have been very clear in saying and saying that we would vote for the measures from the majority that could be shared. However, the vote of confidence - I repeat - is different, regardless of the sharing of the measure. I would never have expected the Government to put the question of trust in a bill to which, moreover, a little more than a hundred amendments had been tabled in this House, bearing in mind that all political forces were interested in its approval and that we all cooperated, including in the Justice Commission, to try to improve its text. The government has tabled a large amendment that has solved the problem of guilt contest, to the truth of a huge simplicity. I wonder if it is relevant in civilization that there has been a part of the blame of one and the other to determine what has happened. In that case, in the civil proceedings, the compensation is halved for each other and for each other. It seemed to me, therefore, normal that even in criminal proceedings there should be a reduction in the penalty, precisely because of the guilt contest. But the problem is not here, because - as Senator Stefani said well - we all want the driver, who is driving the vehicle in a state of drunkenness or after taking psychotropic substances and determines by his driving behaviour the death event of a person, to be punished and punished in a serious, heavy way. We have, in fact, shared and believe that we can continue to share that, in the specific context of this case, the general principle of criminal law of the actio libera in question is being implemented. What does that mean? In a sense, the subject voluntarily takes psychotropic substances or alcohol, knowing that he will then drive a vehicle and, with his driving behaviour, could determine the death event. So, there's some sort of indirect pain, some kind of potential pain. And we can support the extension of the sanction from the classic sanction of criminal offences to the threshold of arson crimes. Now, that the reform has identified as an autonomous case of crime called road murder or personal road injuries only some of the manslaughter that can be attributed to those who, driving a vehicle, can cause the death or injury of people, has resulted in a very complex system of crimes and sanctions in which they coexist old and new systems, with unequal treatment that could result arbitrary and irrational. I'll just give you one example. While the case of the driver who takes psychotropic substances achieves that general principle of criminal law, I wonder: the passage with the red light and therefore the accident resulting from this violation of the norm, how can that principle that we have talked about be realized? Here we are faced with only a violation of a rule of the road code and, therefore, there is no voluntary act, a pre-organization, a process of will that, of course, must exist when a penalty reaches peaks so high that it approaches the family of the crimes of arson. I was also talking about inequality of irrational treatment. What is the difference, for example, from the point of view of responsibility, between the conduct of those who cross a crossroads with the red traffic light and the conduct of those who, for example, driving an articulated vehicle, do not insure their goods on their vehicles? Not having insured the goods on its own vehicle, if the latter falls and causes an accident that causes the death of the driver of the car that follows, in this case the crime of the road murder is not realized. Well, what are the differences between these two pipelines? And then there is also the problem of the life sentence of the license, corrected and revisited, because there was this mania that those who were involved in a car accident should no longer have the opportunity to drive. But it turns out to me that the government, under the law of delegation on decriminalization, is reevaluating the hypothesis of decriminalizing driving without a license. I wonder, is driving without a driver's license a crime? I do now. Now it is expected to be arrested for up to one year in the event of a relapse and a fine. But in the measure that will shortly be dismissed by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in implementation of the delegation law will no longer be a crime. We cannot then share a legislative activity that is disonic, that is not harmonious, that is also contrary to the general principles of criminal law. I regret that undersecretary Cosimo Ferri has gone away, because I believe that as a magistrate, together with the legislative office of the Ministry of Justice, he should have paid attention to these remarks, beyond those of a constitutional order that Senator Nitto Palma illustrated with skill yesterday in his speech, giving a lesson of constitutional and criminal law. But there are students who do not want to listen, who do not want to study, who are inattentive and distracted, because the goal is one and that's what we read today on "Il Sole 24 ORE". Renzi, the President of the Council, respects the commitment and promises made to the associations of family members of the victims of the road, dismissing the measure by the date set. What would have happened if he had ever approved it by a later date, after a month? That is not the promise that Italian expects from the President of the Council. In conclusion, Mr President, we will not vote for confidence for two reasons. The first is political: we are not in the government, and we are voting only on the measures we share and appreciate; therefore we will not vote on this measure for a matter of political order and for a matter of technical order, because it is technically wrong, partly unconstitutional. The second is that we share the considerations that have been explained by Mr Mazzoni in the general debate and by my colleagues Caliendo, Palma and Stefani in the opposition. By placing ourselves in this area of Parliament, as far as this measure is concerned, we will not vote for the confidence that has been demanded. [[Applause from the AL-A Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u44	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, on behalf of my Group, I am voting in favour of confidence in this measure, which introduces the crime of road murder. This is a measure strongly awaited by public opinion shaken by deaths and irresponsible escapes, due to behaviour without any attitude of prudence, considered the medium used, which has in itself a danger of use, so much so that a licence is required to use it. Those launched today are complex measures in their application, due to the many situations of difficulties of ascertaining responsibilities and also of identifying particular cases. However, these are necessary and urgent measures, the aim of which is absolutely right. The heavy penalties provided for are necessarily severe, but they may need to be further developed: the different situations dealt with in the text could also lead to approaches and measures other than the sanctions envisaged here. But this is also the result of a perhaps different cultural approach, which certainly exists in this House, but which also requires, from a certain point of view, the conclusion of a legislative process which, in my opinion, needed mediation, renunciation and development of these different visions. The goal, however, is achieved, in its highest goals. The Government carries out this commitment and for this reason I repeat the yes of our Group For the Autonomies, Socialist Party and MAYE. These are high and heavy penalties, yes, but we are faced with extremely serious facts, which impose responsibility and measure on each of us in the management of this medium; the moving medium, the car or motion, is a tool that certainly improves the quality of life of human beings and citizens, but that can become dangerous, a mortal weapon, and as such must be treated. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat our vote in favour, with the difficulty of defining particularly heavy standards, which will certainly fall on the citizens who will commit this crime or who will find themselves in this particular situation. However, I repeat this point of view: we are not dealing with normal events; our mistakes can cause the death of one of our fellow citizens or other individuals and death is a total loss, it is a condition that cannot be recovered. And, then, we, who are all potential subjects that can cause this death, must face the problem both with respect to the law and in our daily behavior with that maximum of responsibility that the loss of a human life can induce.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u47	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, we come to the explanations of vote and yet no one has had the courage to speak in positive terms of this bill. Even the words of Senator Buemi, a moment ago, refer to themes of a general nature (the sense of responsibility, the need to be able not to endanger the lives of others), recognizing however the fragility of the text and recalling the concept that will then be made changes. In short, in essence, there is not one person in this House - Senator Ginetti gave up her general speech yesterday - who has the courage to stand up and talk about the goodness of this text. I believe that this is particularly annoying because, with this vote of confidence, we want to pass on a negative, unjust and misleading media message: we want to pass on the idea that this House is opposed to resolving, to putting its own and to making a significant contribution to ensuring that the issue brought to our attention today is dealt with effectively and correctly. Much has already been said about the futility and risks of this law. What I would like to make clear in my words is that the positions that we are obliged to take today do not concern the will, which would have been there, to operate in the right and positively with respect to the demand for justice and a different attitude on prevention, but concern choices, methods and contents that are considered questionable, I would say, by everyone. I want to focus on prevention, which is the great absentee in this measure. In fact, a number of amendments calling for a higher proportion of the fines to be paid for the aspects that have been raised in this House, namely research, monitoring and awareness-raising, have been declared inadmissible. Research is all the more important because the determination of responsibilities with this bill will be closely linked to scientific tests and analyses. With which tools will they be executed? What tools do you think you can use and what progress is being made in this area? Another aspect is control. Senator Bruni remembered that. Here, too, we were asked to use some of the fines to increase the resources for controls because, however, the first objective we should give ourselves is not so much to punish those who unfortunately have already caused an accident, but to drastically reduce the possibility of someone causing a fatal accident. This can only be done if you create the culture that people who drink or do drugs do not get into the car. It is a culture that already exists in other countries. So if you go out to dinner, you don't drink and drive, otherwise you take a taxi or a public transport. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, De Petris and Simeoni]] This would involve controls that may be annoying to someone because, however, the logical consequence of the controls could only be a lower sale of alcohol. Just to highlight the contradictions, I would like to remind you that the so-called school decree of 2013 was financed precisely with the increase of excise duties on alcohol products for figures not to be laughed at (13 million for 2013, over 315 for 2014, over 411 for 2015 and over 413 for 2016). That is to say, however, there is a real interest in the sale of alcohol. Here it is necessary to decide Biblically whether God or mammon matters more. If it counts taking measures that limit themselves to raising penalties, which is the cheapest thing in the immediate future, except then go decriminalize them when the prisons are clogged. But this is done at different times and this Government certainly benefits from the fact that Italians have very short memories. Therefore, all the drawing of contradictions and steps forward, in the sense that one step forward and three steps back, pass into cavalry because the Italians have short memory. In the face of this measure, the Mixed Group expresses a strong opposition to its fragile contents. No one has yet said a word of reassurance on the soundness of this bill and the words, on the other hand, on its fragility and on the fact that it does not even correspond to the stated objectives have been repeatedly argued. Therefore, there is opposition in the content, opposition in the media effect that you want to achieve, decisive and firm opposition to the method. I have one final point to make. I am thinking of the bill on civil unions and I think that perhaps those interested throughout Italy will be able to hope that the Christmas message of the President of the Council is for them because so, perhaps, they can hope that the bill on civil unions will be embraced with a public message, that it will be immediately mediated and that, therefore, it can arrive in port within some deadline that the lordship will want to establish. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, De Petris, Simeoni and Zin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u50	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer back to Mr Mussini's speech on prevention, to which many have referred in this House. As a first point, I think we need more prevention to curb bad behavior and bad habits. They must of course be fought. It is necessary to plan a prevention network, to create greater moral persuasion in order to create a correct social awareness of the value and respect of the rules and of life. The latter could be corroborated in this bill through different penises. More penis are inflicted with incarceration. I believe that it would have been useful to foresee other kinds of penalties for those who unfortunately find themselves causing the damage. I am referring to rehabilitation with particular regard to young people who are suffering such damage, and to participation in training courses within intensive care departments where it is possible to see how people who are victims of the road are reduced and where people who have been injured who have remained quadriplegic or paraplegic. I believe that this would constitute a serious training action for people, aimed at at at least improving their approach when they are driving means that can become real weapons. What can I say again? Italy's values are in conflict with this vote, as we know well the association Gabriele Borgogni, born from the death of Gabriele, a Florentine and who even in death made a last gesture of love, donating the organs. The sister who is head of the association that deals with victims of the street obviously has the desire for the bill to be approved. As far as we are concerned, as Italy of values we believe that the measure, on the substance, contains some inconsistencies and criticalities. As far as the method is concerned, I would remind you that the bill which was a parliamentary initiative has become a government, because it has been trusted. So more could have been discussed and we could have prepared a better legal text than what was presented to us at the moment. It's a bill that's almost coming back... president. Thank you, Senator Bencini. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). I would ask you for a moment, Mr President. So it's almost a Christmas present, and I don't want a bill approved to stem the damage caused by the last year. Therefore, as representatives of the Group of Italy of values, unfortunately we will not participate in this vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u53	D'ASCOLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I begin with a political consideration, which of course cannot be ignored, in a context in which the Government puts its trust in the bill. The question, of a political nature, in a certain sense responds to some observations which, during the debate this morning, have been made by other political forces, in the sense of saying that, regardless of the importance of the vote of confidence, it should be decided whether or not to vote on the text on the basis of technical considerations only, i.e. having regard to the quality of the legislative text. I allow myself not to be in agreement with this opinion in advance, in the sense that the relationship of fidelity and attachment, the importance that is recognized to the experience of Government, are decisive elements in conditioning the choices that, otherwise, would have been made in relation to this legislative text. For those who recognize the importance of government experience and its essentiality with regard to nodal issues for the future, but also for the present of this unfortunate society of ours, one cannot think that the relationship of trust with the Government does not constitute a decisive element in the choices that direct and direct the People's Area Group in expressing confidence to the Government on this complex, problematic and difficult legislative text. It seems to me that this is an extremely important consideration of openness, because it is the prism through which to evaluate the behaviour of our political group, which places it before the attention of this House. Among other things, we cannot ignore the fact that some of the amendments we had proposed were accepted, of course included in the list of amendments which would have been discussed if the procedure had been orthodox and therefore if there had not been the position of the question of trust on the part of the Government. Therefore, some malfunctions in the legislative text have been resolved in a certain way by the maxi amendment, which will probably - to use a doubting term and not of certainty - accompany the discussion on the text. It is my personal conviction that, if not all of them, some of the problems that the text certainly presented, in a context in which the remaining ones, which had been invested by amendments that the People's Area has tabled, can be solved in a future adaptation of the legislative text to the application contexts, to which it will be able to demonstrate its appropriateness or a persistent problematicity, which Parliament will always be able to correct. Some positive aspects need to be highlighted and there is to be said that the text that we are about to vote on, albeit with the mechanism of trust, responds to a general appreciation of the criminal offence, which until now is perhaps too ignored and minimalized, placed in a certain sense on the margins of criminal importance, almost as if it were a forgivable and excusable dysfunction for the sole fact of being a crime that cannot be charged against the wrong but can be referred, in the sense of psychological ascription, only to guilt. We must have a clear perception that the modern society is a society of risk, because it is a technological society, in which the completion of complex and dangerous activities but absolutely necessary for the maintenance of the social living conditions to which we are accustomed is absolutely indispensable: who could do without the production of medicines, air transport or with the use of traditional means, cars and other means of communication of which we use today, in the context of an advanced technological society and above all of the further and already predictable complications of everyday life? It is clear that in a context in which we have a series of dangerous but permitted activities, because coessential and demanding to a society of the future and, I repeat, also of the risk like ours, the criminal offence must be valued and re-evaluated. Therefore, with respect to the many accents that I have taken in the course of this debate, led to the marginalization of the manslaughter case, we must object to considerations by virtue of which if the share of dangerous activities but necessary for common living increases, not only these must be better regulated, provided for in the discipline of more detailed and typical precautionary rules and therefore more and more able to neutralize the danger, but the transgression with respect to the precautionary rule, precisely in the attempt to protect the community from the improper use of dangerous instruments but absolutely necessary, must be sanctioned more than a scheme, with reference to which, however, we reason in a falsified way. Of course, in the system of 1930 the manslaughter of an event, such as manslaughter, was something quite different from today and this aspect, the legislative text under consideration, at least highlights it: we are a society of risk, the risk is an allowed risk because necessary, but we cannot think of being able to tolerate levels of risk that are incompatible with the needs of the protection of the community. Well, in this difficult balancing of the relationship between a permissible but necessary risk, which we must absolutely accept as a penalty the abandonment of our own society and of what has led to its economic development, and the protection of the interests of the community, which must of course be protected against the expansion of a risk that if it exceeded certain levels it would be completely intolerable, it is the sense that falls into some of these provisions. I would like to make the most of the legislative choice because it is easy to target legislative texts and I assure you that I and many other outstanding colleagues in this splendid Legislative Assembly could do the same. However, the positive aspects must also be considered. The legislative texts must also be valued where they give a response to society and deny that this society would require a response on the side of the massacres determined by the absolutely improper, inadequate use of cars and means of transport, it means denying with a certain boldness (if you allow me the noun) a reality, a widespread need in our population and in our civil society. We are all witnesses - and I do not wish to go over in emphatic expressions - of events that have repeatedly called for even more radical interventions than those already present in the legislative text. For example, in the draft law on the agenda there is an answer to the issue of the intake of alcoholic and narcotic substances, in a context in which already our penal code of 1930 treats with extreme harshness that presumption of depreciating, i.e. the ability to understand and the will of those who act under the effect of alcoholic or narcotic substance. I have heard - and I agree with him perfectly - that if we are not in the will, we are in a context immediately close, not representation of the event but representation of a concrete danger of the occurrence of an event, which certainly cannot be treated like guilt. I shall conclude my speech, Mr President, by saying that perhaps, in order to call for a non-trivial subject, we could already begin to imagine an intermediate psychological element between the dole and the guilt that is capable of sanctioning these cases that we could call of real recklessness: that is, a fault not serious and not with prediction, but even an intermediate element; this middle layer between a dole, which presupposes the will of the event (which in this case certainly is lacking), and a serious or predictable fault, which does not reflect this excessive, uncontrollable level of danger that had to be controlled through these provisions. I am truly beginning to conclude, combining this aspect with an assessment of the need to think that there is not only dole and guilt as elements within which the placement of these cases is really difficult and the preliminary statement that the vote of confidence is a serious matter. We cannot talk about the vote of confidence in certain terms. It is clear that everyone can think differently on the basis of political groups, but for those who believe in government activity and have supported it so far, things cannot stand in these terms. By combining these two extreme elements of the reasoning, I believe that the vote of confidence is not only necessary, but also understandable and justified in the premises that determine it. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u56	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must remember the process of this draft law, which is born first of all - and we must remember it absolutely - in the streets of our country, which, unfortunately, every year are bloody with very serious facts. We are talking about 3,500 deaths every year on Italian roads; 3,500 mourning, families destroyed, irrecoverable damage, huge for our country. Well, a request for justice came from our country, considering the answer that so far our legal system has given to these facts is inadequate. At first reading, the 5 Star Movement voted in favour of this rule, and the criticisms that have been made in this House - we must remember - are of two kinds: there are criticisms, those made by the 5 Star Movement, techniques, that is, issues of coordination of norms, of application, even unwanted effects (because surely allowing, for the simple manslaughter, the half-penalty is not the objective that the legislator aimed at with this rule); but there are also criticisms of another kind, which we have not shared, and from which - it is good that it is clear to all - the 5 Star Movement distances itself. This is about criticism of rigour. The rigor, in fact, is what the 5 Star Movement has always required, even in these circumstances. We cannot invoke the unconstitutionality of the rules simply because we are responding to a demand for rigour in the face of very serious events such as those which happen. Those who put themselves in the car after drinking or having taken drugs must have the conscience and responsibility to be able to make a fact that has very serious repercussions on the lives of others and on their own existence. This is what we were asking for, but we cannot help noticing that the government has intervened by putting the question of confidence in the measure and it was not good because this did not allow the debate in this House to express all its potential, gathering the various indications that came on the issue of logical-legal coordination of the norm, which presents gaps that - we hope - the House will be closed. It is above all a question of crossing - let us remember - precisely on the penalty, which should be the figure of this rule, because it is incompatible with the rigour that we want to pursue the half-penalty that is allowed compared to the already inadequate penalties provided for at present in the code. The imposition of the question of trust is a matter of concern to Parliament's work, and we believe that, in addition to being clearly a sign of weakness at this time and on this rule, it is a serious signal because it prevents this Parliament from fully carrying out all the functions that the Constitution requires it to carry out, namely the adoption of criminal rules - because we are talking about this - in a prudent, meditated and shared manner. I repeat, these were the rules which we had already voted in favour of, although we were opposed in the previous version, and, with regard to the content of the maxi amendment, which took up most of our comments, we were ready to vote on it. Therefore, this Parliament is being put in a position not to work to the best for problems which are all internal to the majority, which, unfortunately, will reverberate on the quality of this rule. Let us hope that this is not the case and that the House can still intervene, thanks to bicameralism, which allows meditated norms when it affects people's lives so heavily. For these reasons, we declare our vote against this confidence. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u59	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot vote for this trust, not only for political reasons and opposition to this Government, but because we cannot vote for this new law. To vote for it would mean failing the reason why we were elected: each of us has a task in addressing the problem of the formation of laws, that is to make them effective, so that they can have an influence on the social problems that need to be solved. This law does not meet these requirements. In the general debate and in the presentation of the question of constitutionality we highlighted some serious technical errors that were present in the amendments included by the House of Deputies in a text that, although it needed some correction, had been voted by this House in a free confrontation, with attention to the rules. I have to acknowledge the Government, which has put the trust, that it has accepted three of the issues we raised: the one that concerned having reduced to the only competition of the victim the application of the attenuating, the one that corrects the hypothesis of arrest in flaganza, the one that allowed a different discipline of the revocation of the license both for the Italian citizens and the citizens who had obtained the license abroad. On the other hand, the Government did not accept the question raised by us regarding the situation of the driver's flight and essentially the criticisms which had been made in terms of proportionality and the inconsistency of the amendments to paragraph 5 of Article 1 with regard to the penalties provided for in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of the same Article. This lack of proportionality, as highlighted in our amendments, was shared in the Commission by the unanimity of the members. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also unanimously made a specific reference from the point of view of incongruity, in particular when it invited this House, since in the Commission, by the will of the majority, there had been no discussion (all negative opinions even when they were shared by colleagues of the majority). Only this House can therefore give a reading of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs so that this law can be brought into line with constitutional principles. It is not just a matter of checking whether new offences are in line with the canon of reasonableness, because specifically the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states that: In the case of the driver's escape, planned for both the case of road homicide and the case of personal road injuries, it is noted that the rule, in both cases, has profiles of inconsistencies, which could emerge mainly at the application site. You want to adopt a rule, as usual, with an attitude of Parliament which on the one hand delegates to the interpretation of judges, as we do in this case, and after criticizing the same judges when they apply it or when they resort to that discretion which Parliament recognizes to them. In view of this, I believe that we need a minimum of fairness and information. We will not vote in favour because we cannot trust the Government in a law for which, as we all know, a question of constitutionality will be raised at the first incident. I also want to amuse you: not only the government, for the first time (I do not remember other cases and I have been in the Senate for seven years now), has put confidence in a maxi amendment that has modified the text dismissed by the Commission, not only have three amendments been included in the text of the same maxi amendment that derive from our amendments, but there is an amendment relating to Article 182 of the Road Code according to which paragraph 8 is deleted. I would like so much that colleagues from the 5 Star Movement, NCD, Forza Italia and colleagues from the Democratic Party would take into account what the current paragraph 8 of Article 189 says: The driver who stops and, if necessary, assists those who have suffered damage to the person, making himself immediately available to the judicial authorities, when the accident results in the crime of manslaughter or of personal injury to the person, is not subject to the arrest established in the case of a flagrant offence (...)................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This paragraph, on the basis of the maxi amendment, is deleted, so if a person has an accident and knows that mandatory arrest is planned, what does he do, Mr. Undersecretary? He has to stay, because he has to provide assistance or he has to escape, because otherwise he is arrested? And if he leaves, he gets five years at least? Do you realize what the incongruity of such a choice is? You have deleted a paragraph which previously even provided for non-penalty and which had already been limited. If these are then the inconsistencies and the serious aspects, I understand the difficulty of Senator D'Ascola who, with his skill, having no opportunity to defend the merit, the technique of this law, appeals to the necessity of the vote of confidence. However, if we are to reason on the vote of confidence, we must also ask ourselves why. Why was the vote of confidence requested, gentlemen of the government? This is another reason that prevents us from voting in favour of this bill: Senator Giarrusso recalled it, but it did not take a fundamental aspect. Probably the question of trust was asked because someone who is now used to talking to the Italian people on Twitter, said, in a certain circumstance, that by the end of the year this bill would be approved, whatever it costs, and the senators or MPs of the Democratic Party and of the majority must vote to please the master of the steam who said that by the end of the year this legislation must be approved, even if it is a legal obbuse of difficult application. [[Applause from Group FI-PdL XVII and Senator Bignami]] This is a reading that I regret, because it contradicts the function of Parliament. I also understand that those who wanted to eliminate the Senate do not recognize the legislative function, but if instead we were to exercise the functions proper to the Senate, our legislative function would be contradicted by this reasoning. If that's not the reason, what can it be? It may be a concern for its majority and for secret votes, that there was freedom of conscience and an ability to resist the imposition of legislation which is incorrect. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] In the face of this, how do you think that we, even forgetting that we are in opposition, can give up being senators of the Republic and vote in favour of the measure? For this reason, we will not lend ourselves to the device designed simply to avoid a debate and an in-depth examination of the measure by each of us. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u62	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic and sad scenario is before us: more than 3,000 deaths a year, year after year a daily massacre, young broken lives and families destroyed. The damage to those responsible and their families cannot be avoided, even in Parliament, by, of course, setting aside those who can sometimes commit these crimes and doing so with an attitude that is beyond irresponsible and I would say criminal. Colleagues, there are thousands and thousands of wounded, with serious injuries that often ruin forever the lives of men, women, young people and even many children, with human, social and health costs. I stop here, because I think that this scenario is in the heart and mind of all Members at this time and in the course of the work that Parliament has been engaged for many weeks: from the Senate Justice Commission to the Assembly, and then to the Chamber of Deputies and now again to the Senate. How to react? What to do? What approach do you want to use? Of course we must avoid the classic reaction of pretending nothing, introducing some small corrective and some clothes torn in the talk shows, to wait for everything to resume its tragic journey. Of course, colleagues, we must also avoid the emotional, emergent and hysterical reaction, which - even if rarely - is also present in our country, in Italy. A systemic approach and more prevention are needed. You're damn right! A prevention that must become a concrete choice, a cultural attitude and actions and that, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be used as an alibi and a refuge when we do not know how to find other solutions to intervene on the massacre that is consumed daily on the roads of our country. Prevention is a serious matter and must be used for what it is: it is not the answer to all problems and must certainly be used without ever being exploited. Car safety has also been mentioned in the parliamentary debate and is an important tool. There is a need for safety, especially in the urban context, as many murders and serious injuries are being carried out in that perimeter, with greater responsibility for the management of roads and our infrastructure system. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that putting everything only on the shoulders of the penal code can certainly be considered a limit but, with great honesty, even in Italy a line of rigour must be found. We cannot escape the responsibility of those who drive a car: those who drink too much cannot drive; those who use drugs and drugs cannot drive. So too, ladies and gentlemen, to those who violate the central principles of the road code (from crossing with the red traffic light to the reversal of traffic) and cause the death of one or more people, nothing can happen, as is often the case now. On respect for the rules, ladies and gentlemen, we must also move on in our country. It was good for the government to push the penalty line. It was good for Parliament to accept this challenge. He did so here in the Senate, at first reading, where the classic attitude of division between majority and opposition was set aside, and in the Committee on Justice and then in the House, with the rapporteur's guidance, whom I thank, a balanced path and a line of rigour within our criminal system has been identified, knowing that, even within this, innovative corrective measures must be brought about. Senator D'Ascola said well: between the dole and the guilt today there are signs of the conduct that the criminal system must identify and strike. An attitude that is too conservative and traditional, even without wanting to do so, risks being obtuse, inconclusive and incapable of following the evolution of society and protecting citizens, as a Parliament and a Government must responsibly do. The line of rigour, as I often say, brings us into harmony with Europe. We are the only country with such a high mortality rate. Why does it only happen in Italy? Why in Italy is the code of the road considered not a strict, strict and to be respected, but a simple advice? You don't know him, and often you don't correspond to what is expected there. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the line of rigour is a line that must be followed without fear. It is a line that must finally be inserted into our criminal system. Colleagues, at first reading in the Senate this line of rigour had found its balance. It wasn't an easy road to take. However, the solutions have been identified and there has been a vote, first in the Justice Commission and then here in this House, almost unanimous. Changes have been made to the House; some of them have not convinced us and here it has been said, with responsibility and loyalty on the part of the majority, and there have also been reports from the opposition (as an opposition must do), even if I have to say with some force and with some excess of instrumentality. The Government has done well, in its maxi amendment, to incorporate those changes that now allow us to vote with conviction and responsibility. 11:44 a.m. (Followed by LUMIA). Colleagues, I would have liked the government to have set aside the appeal to trust, but I understand the reasons. We are now at the third parliamentary stage and we cannot go any further on this measure: we cannot ask for a fourth, a fifth or a sixth examination. So, in these cases, a responsible government puts trust, if it believes that that measure is important and decisive for the life of a country. I would have liked it if trust had not been placed, because we would have been called, even those who are critical, to explain the real reasons for it. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that, after the corrections that the rapporteur, the majority and also the opposition have suggested to the Government and the Government has accepted, that reference to the Constitution falls completely. The decisions of the Constitutional Court repeatedly call on Parliament to be responsible for decision-making, and in terms of the determination of penalties it is Parliament that must take responsibility. There is therefore no danger of unconstitutionality. We can vote for this measure. Finally, the code of the road is equipped with tools to address (not to solve, but to address) the problem, and to ensure that in our country citizens know that, when driving, they must take a prudent, responsible, sober attitude, able to understand the risks they face. That is why we turn the page and work, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that the reform of the road code, which is being examined by the competent Commission, can complete the path that we have now opened, so that we can finally tell the country that Parliament responds, not turning its back, does not shut up, does not pretend not to see. There has been an open dialogue in Parliament between majority and opposition - I repeat: we are at the third stage - and there has been a dialogue with society. I must thank the associations representing the families of the victims of the road, who are present here; it is not true that they took a vengeful attitude, but they had a responsible attitude (we have seen this with the proposals they have made). I must also thank the Forces of Order, who live this experience and who have been able to develop it technically in the directions they have given us. Moving on. The Democratic Party votes for this trust with conviction, because we believe that Parliament has done a good job. Now is the time to decide. The line of responsible and balanced rigour, which has emerged here, is the right line in which we can deal with this tragedy, which will require other choices and other decisions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u65	Madam President, the abuse of your patience and patience on the part of my fellow Members is merely a matter of saying thank you, which is not a matter of necessity. I would like to stress very much the very relaxed climate in which we work in the Justice Commission; the presence of the high professionalism of its members always allows us to bring home absolutely optimal results. Thanks must also go to Commission officials, Dr. Cavallucci, Dr. Smurra and Dr. Annecchiarico, who always make their professionalism available, which allows us to face the problems with knowledge of the cause by all. A final remark and a thank you in relation to the support that the representatives of the families have given us, already recalled by Senator Lumia. I make two names that apply to everyone (they are not all members of associations): there are people like Marina Fontana, who was present in the course of all the works and who has always assured his contribution, what my colleague Lumia spoke about; as I would like to remember Alberto Pallotti. They certainly do not have vindictive intentions, but they only wanted to follow the process of a law that I believe finally gives a fair response to the demands of justice manifested by society. I therefore believe that we should give thanks to all these people.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u66	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,700, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the text of the bill n. 859-1357-1378-1484-1553-B, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust. Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Tronti is drawn by lot). They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Esposito Giuseppe and Marino Luigi. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Tronti. AMATI, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Azzollini Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Cassano, Casson, Chiavaroli, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Conte, Corsini, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascoli, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Di Biagio, Filippi, Fincchiaro, Firsore, Formigoni, Fornaro, Fravezzi Fabbari, Fatorini, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippi, Fincchiaro, Finsore, Fornaro, Fornaro, Fravezzi Gatti, Faveri, Giveri, Giveri, Faveri, Giveri, Fideli The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amoruso, Aracri, Augello, Auricchio, Barani, Barozzino, Bernini Bertacco, Bertorotta, Boccardi, Bocchino, Bottici, Bruni, Bulgarelli Caliendo, Campanella, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Caridi, Carraro, Castaldi, Catalfo, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Compagnone, Conti, Cotti, Crimi D'Anna, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Siano, Di Maggio Endrizzi Falanga, Fattori, Ferrara Mario, Floris, Fucksia Gaetti, Gibiino, Giovanardi, Giro Iurlaro Langella, Lezzi, Palelli, Longo Eva, Lucidi Malan, Mandelli, Mangili, Marin, Martelli, Martelli, Matteoli, Mauro, Stezzoni, Mauro, Mazzoro, Mazzolini, Milani, Milani, Milo, Milani, Mineo, Mineo, Molo, Mineo, Pieveo, Mineo, Mineo, Mineo, Mineo, Mineo (In the course of voting, they take over the Presidency - at 12.05 p.m. - at 12.05 p.m.) - 12.07 a.m. -). PRESIDENT. - The debate is We note that Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, although he is present in the Chamber, does not take part in the vote. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,700, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the text of the bill n. 859-1357-1378-1484-1553-B, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 241 Senators voting 240 Majority 121 Favorable 149 Contrari 91]] The Senate approves. All amendments and agendas submitted to the draft law are therefore not included.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u67	Colleagues, since the Conference of the Leaders is convened immediately, I suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of that meeting. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.48 p.m. and resumed at 1.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u68	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the next week's timetable by providing for single sessions starting from Tuesday 15 December, from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m., with mid-day suspension put back to the Presidency's assessments, and, if necessary, Friday 18. The order of the arguments is as follows: decree-law on financial provisions for interventions in the territory, reform of the RAI and delegation of contracts. On Wednesday afternoon, 16 December, the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications ahead of the European Council on 17-18 December 2015. The timing of the debate will be broken down according to the previous ones.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u71	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, first of all, I would like to remind you that next Monday Parliament is being convened in a joint sitting for the election of the judges of the Court. Therefore, I propose that we resume work at the end of the vote on Monday evening at 8 p.m., with the additions that I shall propose, as I believe other groups will do, and that I think they can safely be included in the agenda for next week's work. First of all, I would like to anticipate the start of next week's work on Monday evening at 8 p.m. I would also ask you to include in the timetable, after the bill of Law 2145, of conversion of Decree-Law No 185 for interventions on the territory, the discussion of a motion relating to a matter which I believe this House should deepen, not just expressing an opinion on the draft legislative decree during the debate in 8th Commission. This is the motion that concerns the fate of the State Railways. We have tabled a motion on this, because I believe it is necessary for this House to address the issue of the future of such an important service and unfortunately - alas - even so lacking in our country. On the other hand, with regard to the reform of the RAI, which I believe is still being examined by the Commission, I would stress a very important issue: the reform should be addressed after the discussion of the delegation on procurement and concessions, because I believe it is necessary to complete all the reordering of the procurement system which also affects the RAI very much and immediately after the reform of the RAI. So the changes I propose are as follows: start work on Monday at 8 p.m., discuss the motion on the State Railways and reverse the work between the RAI reform and the delegation on procurement, dealing first with the latter measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u74	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, since the anthill is filling up, we too are putting forward our proposal. As we said before, we stress that attention must be paid, because the banking system is giving bad examples to citizens about how speculation is being done on the shoulders of savers. We have more draft laws presented by our Group in the previous legislature and retabled at the beginning of this one that is not brought to the Chamber: this is the banking separation that involves the division between commercial banks from speculative banks. Madam President, we are asking this House to give serious thought to a subject which must be included in the timetable, because it is no longer possible to bail on it, unless we want to hide our sins under the carpet, because someone in the government, of course, has so many sins to hide.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u77	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, first of all we ask that the motion concerning the nuclear armament of the F-35 be dealt with, a motion which has been signed - I am told - by 81 Members and which, therefore, by the Rules of Procedure, would not even need to be included on the agenda with a vote of the House, but which could, indeed, should be done directly by the Presidency. Unfortunately, this motion is becoming more topical every day. And let's say "unfortunately" because the risks are obvious. We therefore call for the debate on this motion to be included on the agenda and also for the deliberations of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u78	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of this House, which is designed to anticipate the start of next week's work at 8 p.m. on Monday. Verification of the CANDIANI quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the discussion on the proceedings of the Senate I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings aimed at anticipating the beginning of next week's work at 8 p.m. on Monday, made by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to include the examination of the motion on the State Railways.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u79	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u80	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, the timetable for the Assembly's work is maintained within the terms already adopted and in force. The Assembly will therefore meet again next week at 4.30 p.m. on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-551.ana.u81	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.25 a.m.
