ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins. Colleagues, to allow the request technical predisposition of the direct broadcast RAI I briefly suspend the session. (The sitting was suspended at 9.39 a.m. and resumed at 9.44 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u8	The next item is the report by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance on the Greek crisis. Live television with RAI is in progress. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have five minutes available. I call the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Padoan.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek crisis was born when it was found that the state of public finances was very different from the representation available until then. Interest on Greek public debt has risen and the state would have quickly entered a vicious circle if it had to continue to finance itself on the markets in a context of general financial crisis. Like other Member States of the Union, Greece has requested assistance from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund. Financial aid has been granted to the country in the order of 260 billion euros since 2010, subject to an economic policy oriented to correct the structural defects of the national economy, as happened in other countries, in order to restore the conditions of access to the markets. The aid programmes carried out in other countries have been completed: Spain, Portugal and Ireland have resumed to grow, issue government bonds and refinance their debt on the market; Cyprus is about to successfully conclude its programme. The situation in Greece has remained very critical: there have been two aid programmes, the second of which ended on 30 June, without Greece being able to use resources that are still available. Italy, alone, contributed EUR 35.9 billion, which weighs on our debt in terms of 2.3 points of GDP, which is already accounted for. We come today: in the context of the Council of Finance Ministers of the euro area countries, the Eurogroup has been working for five months with the new Greek Government to complete the second programme, which would have allowed Greece to receive the last tranche of loans and additional funds from the International Monetary Fund. With these resources, it could have met the debt deadlines concentrated in the summer of this year and continued the path towards the recovery of financial autonomy. Financial aid, as is well known, creates the conditions for a state to make the necessary changes to put institutions, society and the economy back on a path of sustainable growth in the long term. These changes are carried out through economic, legal and institutional measures, through structural reforms. These actions, as a whole, constitute those which are defined as the conditionality of the programme: in other words, the institutions provide financial resources; the beneficiary of the loan undertakes to restore the conditions of growth and market access, in his own interest and in that of the creditors, to whom the loan can be repaid. In the past months, in the context of the Eurogroup we have met many times and Italy has always worked to promote the achievement of an agreement: on the creditors side there have been increasing stiffenings on the part of the majority of countries, but on the Greek front there has been a often discomfortable behavior. A negotiation between nineteen member countries, with the participation of institutions such as the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, the Commission or the European Stability Mechanism is necessarily complex, must be conducted in accordance with shared engagement rules, with specific, concrete and factual contributions. The absence of this concreteness and the repetition of inconclusive meetings, because they lack an object to be examined, and the uncertainty about the objectives of the Greek authorities have wasted a lot of time until 30 June, when the second programme ended and when the deadlines for the payment of refunds to the International Monetary Fund expired. Today we are in a new situation: helping Greece requires the activation of a new aid programme that includes long-term loans and the modernisation of the country. Yesterday, 8 July, the Greek authorities sent a request to the President of the Eurogroup for financial stability under the Treaty of European Stability Mechanism. The request is for a three-year loan associated with a reform programme in the field of fiscal sustainability, financial stability and long-term growth. In particular, the letter contains a commitment to submit immediately a package of measures in the field of taxes and pensions. Yesterday, the President of the Eurogroup, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, instructed the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund to assess quickly whether the conditions for the loan were met. The Eurogroup meets on Saturday 11 July. A new construction site for Greece opens, in which Italy participates in a very constructive and cooperative way for a shared solution. However, the Greek case requires another construction site to be opened on the policy and the establishment of Europe, which Italy has already opened during the Presidency of the Union. I have already said many times - and I repeat here - that austerity is a false problem. The question is not austerity yes or austerity no; the question to which we must answer is how to translate the objectives of growth and job creation into practice, in a context in which a window of opportunity opens which risks being smaller and shorter than one might expect. The policy mix today in Europe includes three levers. The leverage of investment, first of all, to be achieved through the European Fund for Strategic Investments, known as the Juncker Plan and entrusted operationally to the European Investment Bank. Public resources are there and can activate private resources. Let us not forget that the European budget provides specific resources for large-scale investment. We need to make good use of these resources, which are worth EUR 35 billion for Greece by 2020. The second lever serves to relaunch sustainable growth in the long term: structural reforms, carried out in many countries and which Italy is carrying out with great determination. Reforms impose changes, even radical changes, in behaviour and relations between economic actors. The benefits of the reforms are growing over time and strengthen the stability of monetary union. National reforms and European reforms, such as the completion of the internal market, reinforce each other. Finally, monetary policy. The quantitative easing, i.e. the introduction of liquidity into the system, which creates conditions for low interest rates, which benefit public finances and private investors, both companies and households. However, quantitative easing alone is insufficient; its effectiveness depends crucially on the structural improvement of the economy. In this context, a country with a high debt must manage public finance in the knowledge that a primary budget surplus is necessary to allow debt reduction. Budgetary policy does not, however, focus exclusively on balances; it must pay great attention to the composition, both of expenditure and of revenue. The composition of expenditure and revenue, at the same balance, may be more or less conducive to growth and work, also in the light of action on structural reforms. This mix triggers the Commission's Communication on flexibility spread on 13 January, guidelines on the application of the budgetary rule to allow the adjustment of the tax adjustment to the economic cycle to avoid pro-cyclical effects of adjustment policies, provided that the structural reform programme continues without interruption. So far the current policy mix. However, we need to go further; we need to strengthen the institutions of monetary union and of Europe, starting with the banking union, as well as the real institutions, the real economy, the fiscal and the budgetary institutions. An effective discussion of these issues requires the availability of the scarcest resource in Europe today, which is neither finance nor the fiscal area, but trust. Without confidence, private investment falls and consumption falls; domestic demand falls. As I said, there is little confidence: confidence between citizens and institutions has decreased; confidence between states has decreased. Without confidence behavior favours the short term and individual choices over cooperative and shared ones. The main way to rebuild confidence is to move towards greater integration and, at the same time, integration starts if there is sufficient confidence. In the face of the Greek crisis, we must speed up the process of integration, immediately and courageously, thinking of the future, rather than opportunistic calculations of short-term consensus. Integration requires symmetry in behaviors and policies: symmetry occurs when adjustment involves and is equally divided between deficit countries and surplus countries. More integration requires more risk sharing. We must share the risks by pooling resources, as is essential in a successful monetary union. The risk sharing and mutualisation of resources is already taking place in the banking union, which still needs to be completed, but risk sharing must involve other areas: employment policy and budgetary policy. The debate in Europe must focus on these issues and not on austerity. The Eurogroup will start discussing these issues from its next ordinary meeting next week. Ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, three points to conclude. First point: this is not 2012, that is at the sharpest moment of the euro crisis. The euro, monetary union, is stronger because it has made great progress in integrating and building institutions. Italy is stronger and stronger, because it reforms and returns to growth. Second point: negotiations are under way. We must work for a shared solution based on mutual trust, and in this we must remember that the comparison is not only between a country in difficulty and a group of creditors, it is also a comparison between governments and parliaments that, as in the Greek case, in some cases are required to give formal approval to assistance programmes, indeed, at the same start of the negotiation process. Thirdly, we need to increase trust capital, not only to consolidate Greece but above all to consolidate Europe, to regain consensus with concrete results in terms of growth, employment and well-being. It is therefore necessary - I repeat - to direct the debate on long-term issues, not to be trapped in a one-sided and short-term vision. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u10	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Economy and Finance. Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u11	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister for accepting the request of the Senate, particularly the oppositions, which strongly asked President Grasso for the presence of the Government on the hectic and dramatic days of the negotiations with Greece. Certainly, Minister, despite the accuracy of your information, the report will not suffice. We will need a serious, sincere, even harsh, confrontation with a President of the Council who must respond to these classrooms of the attitude and behaviour of our country in this matter. You have explained this amply, but the political limit seems to me to be clear, as is clear how the latest events show how fallacious the illusion is, that an international left has always caressed, building precisely an economic monstrum based on an illusion: made a currency, the real economies of the countries of the euro zone would automatically take a path of convergence. But it wasn't. Today, in the light of the Greek crisis, a real operation is possible on the single currency, on the damage caused by the haste to introduce it, with parameters sometimes stupid - and I did not say so - and with a blindfold that in fact prevents rethinking and due adjustments that you also recall today. After Greece, skepticism, the euroscepticism of those who really love Europe like us, is no longer a blasphemy against the Homeland, but a well-established fact that unites us all and from which we leave to thoroughly reform Europe and thus save it. The only way to make Europe irreversible, and the euro irreversible, is to ensure that that euro is not harmful; otherwise, Greece will be joined by others and others (the case of Austria yesterday is just the last example). One thing is clear, Minister. The protagonists of this affair, the alleged cicadas or the alleged ants, have now wrapped: on the one hand, the cunning at the expense of others by Tsipras, who claims to continue on an economic line that we call wrong; on the other, a Europe of soulless accountants. The sad reality is that neither Tsipras, nor Merkel have convincing recipes, while we need very convincing recipes, since the Italians at the Fund Salva-Stati are the result of convincing sacrifices made by Italians. I would also point out that the third creditor exposure to Greece (that is, ours, since we are the third creditor country towards Greece) does not correspond to an appropriate attitude on the part of our European partners. In fact, in the face of the third creditor exhibition, we see no signs of correct representation and respect for the commitment of the Italians, but the political irrelevance of your Government, Minister, and our President-in-Office of the Council. I fear, in fact, that the Franco-German axis, which did not even give itself a phone call to our Government, will continue with a policy that we consider wrong - other loans, other taxes and other debt - and we will find ourselves here in a few months' time. As for Italy - I repeat this once again - let us say no to a new definitive cage in which to lock ourselves and impoverish ourselves. That reform plan for the Eurozone, which you, Minister, have mentioned and which we are talking about, would in fact also remove the last pieces of economic, fiscal and national sovereignty. Beyond how the crisis will evolve, we say that the blind axis Berlin-Brussels is no longer due to any obedience. Let us say no to this prospect, since we believe it is necessary to follow Cameron's view on the line of an overall renegotiation with Brussels, in order to rewrite rules that today appear unacceptable to all. That is why we share the line of Cameron and the European Conservatives: their proposal for an overall renegotiation with Brussels offers, in addition to an understandable defence of national interests, a great opportunity to all of us and to all of those who want to rewrite the rules of this Europe, which has self-hanged to austerity and non-growth. This is what Italy needs, otherwise not even the Juncker plan will be enough - and you know it - to restore that confidence that so much calls for, but that must be built with patience and seriousness. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Volpi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u13	Minister, you are a week late, because the accountants would have liked to hear from you last week and we would have liked the President of the Council here today. You're too smart not to know what you didn't say. He has said things that we have already read in the newspapers and, therefore, his report is absolutely irrelevant to this Parliament. On the other hand, the times of the debate are also those of fear: they allow the Groups five minutes to intervene at a time like this. Perhaps you are in a hurry to return to your ministry, waiting for Merkel's phone call to tell you what to do when you go to the next meeting of the Eurogroup. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That's the truth. His report shows that you don't understand. You don't understand, but not just as a government. Unfortunately, when it was said in this House yesterday that we could start a debate on the European issue, the House, from left to right, said no. From the Greek referendum onwards there has been a laughing stock of useless and continuous voices (it has been said that we have to change the treaties and discuss everything again), but then, when there is an opportunity to talk about these issues, the answer is no. Everyone decide what you want to do, from the government to the parties sitting in Parliament, because that doesn't work. This riddle of voices shows that you have not understood, why then do not, because, dear Minister, you are afraid of democracy and also of the neighbor you do not know, while we do. We know the pensioner who lives near us, we know the unemployed, we know who no longer has a job, we know the exodus, we also know the builder that his government has decided to keep on the scaffolding until sixty-seven years old. Minister, it is not a matter of lack of confidence, but of the ISTAT data, which you read every day, which say that there are millions of Italians in poverty and Italians who are reducing the cost of buying food. Maybe she's been living in buildings too long to realize that. (Renzi I don't know.) We have a President-in-Office of the Council who has reduced a founding country of Europe to a country that kisses the Merkel slipper in this dramatic situation. We have a President-in-Office of the Council smirking, whistling at European summits. This is your Italy, but it is not ours, dear Minister, it is not ours! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] This denies the need for democracy. You have done so in a more diplomatic way today, but some of the Members of this Parliament have said that in order to have democracy we must give up sovereignty. This means once again that you have not understood that this grey Europe of bureaucrats, who does not know what a worker is, does not know what a fisherman is and does not know what a lathe is, cannot withstand the challenge. There is no development here, there is no programme here; here is the harassment of a Germany that has a hegemony economic design on this Europe and you are their servants! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Giarrusso.]] You do not even have the dignity to represent us in a worthy way in the face of this dramatic economic context! But do you really think you can, saying those few useless things you told us, go represent the families of the 133 who committed suicide this year, telling stories about trust? Do you think you can represent before the mistress Merkel the problem of our exodus, our merchants, our artisans? [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, I have a thousand things to say. Minister, defend less the big banks and defend our BCCs. I'll tell you in German (it's not an order, it's an invitation): if this is your Europe, komm raus, dear Minister, komm raus, let's go! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u14	Senator Ferrara Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u15	[[Senator Ferrara's microphone isn't working.]] Move to the microphone next door, Senator Ferrara; there is an unexpected technical inconvenience.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u16	Then I believe that the President will want to speak to apologise for the inconvenience.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u17	Already asked.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u18	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). The funds perhaps too much available to the House create these technical problems. Mr Camus, in 1955, at a conference on Europe, it was agreed that the problem for Europe at that time was not the acquisition of sufficient critical spirit but the recognition of the dignity of the person. Today I have the impression that the problem is the opposite, not that of the dignity of the person, given the attitude that all the peoples of Europe are having at this time towards immigration but that of the critical spirit. The problem is the critical spirit because, if politics (i.e. us), if economic policy (which is the responsibility of the Government), if finance (given the poor debate held yesterday on the subject at the ABI assembly) leads us to debate the problem Greece, it is likely that we do not have sufficient critical spirit. It would then be better if we told all of us that everything that happened in 2000 and then, with Greece's entry into the euro, was born in 2001 - as Vice-Minister Morando will now agree, because this is patently acclaimed - from having cheated on the accounts. This we do not want to acknowledge to ourselves, in the sense that we share our responsibility to delegate to the Government; but today I believe that the greater responsibility within Europe lies with this Government. So we're not careful critics or honest critics. It is true, it seemed then, in 2000 and 2001, that the simple enlargement was the solution to all the problems and, as President Ciampi admitted, because there is no currency without a government, it was hoped that it would be the same currency that would determine the birth of a government. This has not been the case and, since this has not been the case, it should be admitted today that these operations - I am referring to a euphemism - of financial circumvention have been a bloody scam. However, since live television is in progress, I would like to use a comparison that many lawyers make when defending a con artist, drawing from psychoanalytic literature and saying that ultimately the con artist did not commit such a serious crime, since the con artist also wanted to take advantage of the opportunity and so the con artist is also a bit of a con artist. This is the most probable thesis, that is, we should all complain that Greece has not fulfilled its commitments, so it is necessary to discuss it every week and every week to hear on television that it is the decisive week and to hear ultimatums that end up not being that of the " penultimateums," we were more critical and we recognized that what we are facing is a relationship between fraud and fraudster. However, there is no judge to turn to and there are no general mitigating factors that can be invoked, even if they could be seen in enlargement, globalisation and the crisis. At this point, however, history should also be used, because the previous government - since you always tend to blame the previous governments - had prevented us from doing what Greece did in the referendum. He had prevented it because - history is always a good teacher, but so many times men are bad schoolchildren - we had remembered Themistocles, which in 483 a. C. had called what was called the first referendum in history, but according to Plutarch that referendum was based on a scam, because it was stated that the enemy was not Sparta but it was Aegina - and in this I find a strange assonance - and that the vein from which the silver was to be extracted had a much lower reach than the one that then became sure to have. I did not hear the Italian Government say anything, but if history had been read it would have prevented this referendum. This referendum, among other things, has lengthened the time of the negotiations and so now to hear that we have to be quick is not the best statement that neither we nor the people would like to hear in this House. I do not believe that there are rights without duties and our right imposes the duty to seek the only possible solution, that of recognizing our mistakes and beating us, quickly and immediately, so that a solution can be found: a quick, immediate solution that takes account of our responsibilities and that can be credible, not only in the international context, but also in the national context, because at this moment your credibility within our country, towards this Parliament and the people who listen to us, is very low and what worries me is that this drags down our credibility too. I therefore ask you, Minister, not to come and tell me - allow me the abuse - lies in this House and I ask you and the Government to try to do your duty that has certainly not been done so far. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, MpA, NPSI, PpI, IdV, VGF, FV) and Senator Di Maggio]] . PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fravezzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u19	Mr President, Minister, representatives of the Government, I would like to begin by appreciating the words of great balance and calibrated by the Minister, because the situation is indeed very delicate and, in our opinion, it would probably deserve a greater capacity for analysis on the part of each of us. I say this because there are passages, choices that have also been made by this Parliament at a time of difficulty, in 2011. These are commitments that have been made with the accession to the common European home, which we have all shared, and to which - as we also wish Greece to do - each country must fulfil by virtue of its membership in this common home. As the Minister said earlier, this implies fundamental solidarity but also a great sense of national responsibility. It seems to me that the path taken by the Eurogroup - and I hope that good news will come from the meeting on Saturday - is to continue on the three roads that our Government too pursued when it had the Presidency-in-office of the European Council: investment, greater flexibility and to ask each country to create sustainable growth in terms of reforms (even tough, radical, probably unpopular in the short term), with a monetary policy that, in an excellent way, accompanies this type of reform. In this regard, Draghi should be given the credit for having played a major role. I say this because now there is even doubt about the euro and about the choices made at the beginning of 2000, which were a bit the fulfillment of choices made by previous governments and the objectives of the founding fathers. Perhaps we do not realize, when we go to undermine certain things, that there are those who struggle to reach the end of the month. Today, a Europe without euro would mean that the social situation is even worse; a Europe that cannot be inclusive even compared to countries that are more difficult (although asking for responsibility), would mean creating even more instability between the North and the South of the world. Perhaps we are not fully aware of this. Today, not having the euro would mean being in even greater difficulty than what is happening in Asia: what is happening on that continent in these hours is likely to overwhelm certain balances at global level. I think, as Minister Padoan also said, that we are stronger today, but we must recover the reasons for cohesion, the sense of belonging to a common continent and trust. One thing that Tsipras probably did for reasons of internal politics, to succeed perhaps - at least this is my hope - to have a country metabolize difficult reforms after the first aid plans did not work, was to create a greater consensus even with the opposition forces, which can be useful. I hope that the agreements that will be reached on the weekend will be approved by the Greek Government, because Greece's destiny is also ours. Within this framework, I too hope that confidence will be restored, which has been partly undermined in these two months of negotiations. I join in thinking that the real big game that we all have to open is to create a new, real construction site that will also redesign what has not worked so far, in a context of policies that may be marked by an excess of austerity. The hope is that we can rediscover the values of fundamental European solidarity, that Europe will be able to become inclusive again, but also that those who are part of Europe have a great sense of national responsibility. As a government and Parliament we are trying to do so and I hope that this will also be done by the Greek Government. We hope that the Eurogroup on Saturday will bring positive news, because it is not only the fate of the Greeks, but that of Europe and of an entire continent that is at stake. I therefore wish you every success, Minister, and I hope that the Eurogroup will do its best this week. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u20	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u21	Mr President, I am addressing Mr Padoan because, I regret to say this, but his bureaucratic communication shows once again that, alas, Italy does not play any role and seems to have become self-destined to irrelevance. In its place today, because we have asked for it several times, the President-in-Office of the Council had to be there. Not out of rudeness to him, but because we feel that we are not faced with an economic and even less technical problem: we are faced with a political problem, on which depends the fate of millions of people and the future, or the absence of a future, of the European Union. In the last two weeks our President-in-Office of the Council has attacked the Greek Government, without a single word of criticism for those policies of Europe which he denounced passionately just a few months ago. He decided to deploy Italy alongside the hawks of rigour, without any distinction. He came to say what very few others in Europe had said, and that it is also a resounding lie, defining the Greek referendum "a derby between euro and drachma." It is serious that the President-in-Office of the Council has decided on such an extreme line and so enslaved to the positions of the German Chancellor without feeling the democratic need to confront the Italian Parliament. He flew to Berlin, the only European leader, on the day before the referendum, in the idea of perhaps building a Rome-Berlin axis of sad memory, aiming at the victory of yes. And he joined the campaign of lies and slanders against the Greek people and the Tsipras government. Among other things, the account of the Greek official who took part in the negotiations, who appeared on the Republic, gives us a disturbing picture, made of blackmail, and also tells us that Europe never wanted to start a real negotiation. But in this House we have to tell the truth that it is quite different from what the government and the vast majority of the media have told and tell. The truth is that accepting the European memorandum would have resulted in further and very heavy recessive effects, would have further increased the Greek public debt, would have given Greece, already exhausted by five years of the Troika's Diktat, the blow of grace. The truth is what Prime Minister Tsipras explained yesterday in front of the European Parliament. And I want to remember her with her own words: The Greek situation does not depend on the last five months of government, but on the last five years, during which the aid has not been effective. Nowhere has austerity been so hard and long. My homeland has been turned into an austerity lab, but the experiment has failed. The aid money has never reached the citizens, but only the banks. I would like to remind you here that more than 80% of the Troika's "aid" went directly or indirectly to the financial sector, particularly the German sector, which managed to reduce its exposure to Greece by 80% only in the period between 2010 and 2012. This is the truth of the facts. The experiment has failed, and to pay for failure, not only in Greece, have been and are millions of European citizens. Austerity policy has brought unemployment, poverty growth and social disintegration. Those countries that you say are recovering are countries where the number of unemployed and poor has grown exponentially. This is the recipe for austerity. Germany, in order to preserve its stability, has exported instability to the rest of Europe, imposing its strict recipe on others, regardless of the particular conditions of other countries. Probably without the American pressure and pragmatism of Mario Draghi the eurozone, regardless of Greece, as Lucio Caracciolo claims, would have already skipped for some time. That is why we are talking today not only about Greece but about the whole of Europe and, in the first place, about our country. The Italian Government, therefore, should seize the opportunity of the Greek vote and the Greek crisis to finally discuss in Europe the need for a political change first and foremost. Because one thing is certain: Europe can only have a future if it frees itself from the obsession with the deficit and balance of the budget and blind obedience to the German precepts. It is completely useless to fill the mouth with fine words about the need to change towards Europe if, in practice, we do not have the courage to move in this direction. What the Italian Government must do is support the reasons of Greece, starting from the request to restructure a debt that everyone, starting from the International Monetary Fund, knows that it is not sustainable and cannot under any circumstances be paid. The issue, which can no longer be postponed, of the renegotiation of the debt for the most exposed countries must be put on the table without any twists of words: this we believe Italy must do. The Italian Government must not continue to grind propaganda easy on the virtuosity of its reforms, but propose and strongly support the need for a conference on debt, with the explicit objective of reviewing all the treaties and rigid parameters of the fiscal compact. What is being played in these hours in Europe is a political game, which has at stake the fate not only of Greece, but also of all the peoples of Europe. In this confrontation between two opposing conceptions of Europe and democracy, Renzi has chosen to side with zeal, even exaggerated, in support of the rigour and the German Government: we would like to tell him that in this way the interests of Italy and of Europe are not made. If Europe does not change its policies of austerity failure, if it does not question the rigid German precepts, if it expels Greece, the process of disintegration will be inevitable and unstoppable. Saving Greece today, with a solidarity effort, means saving the very idea of Europe, guaranteeing it a new beginning. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni. The Senators of the Misto-SEL Group display signs depicting the Greek flag]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u22	Please, let's get those signs off.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u23	He is registered to speak Senator Marino Luigi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u24	Mr President, the statements that the Minister has made here today are significant of the very difficult moment that Europe is experiencing. You, Minister Padoan, are a competent person, of common sense, prudent. I like to recall a saying, which may not please Tsipras: if you are holy, tell us about sacredness, if you are learned, teach us wisdom, if you are prudent, guide us. The alternative to an understanding is Greece's exit from the euro. It is a duty, therefore, to try to stop at a step from the irreparable. As I used to say a long time ago, I will also say an obvious thing to Catalan: better an agreement than a break, better a good agreement than a bad agreement; an agreement that is useful to Europe and the euro, then to Greece and then to Italy. It would have required caution and responsibility in these months and weeks, and instead the Greek Government seems to be driven by an objective: to drive the mayonnaise crazy. She herself called it "comforting." The Greek government defines European states as "terrorist" creditors, but the same "terrorists" have always asked for money: since 2009 the "terrorists" have made five rescues and two debt extensions. Tsipras repeats the chorus that money went to the banks that, being held (as we have also just heard) the absolute evil, can sink quietly, dragging millions of savers with them. These are effective sentences, but having replaced sovereign states with financial intermediaries was the salvation, to date, of Greece, which would otherwise have failed. The replacement of bank debt by sovereign states' debt has been accompanied by the restructuring of this debt, so much so that the Greeks today pay a real interest rate of 1.4% on a public debt that is worth 180 percent of their GDP, while Italy pays 4.7% on its public debt, which is worth 133% of GDP. Greece does this, however, with great sacrifices, of which we acknowledge, with a real austerity, certainly superior to the Italian one. The Greeks opened 99 gates, but at the 100th gate they decided to go back, burn sacrifices and suffering, throw programs in the basket that were producing results. Here we do not remember that in mid-2014 the Greek growth indices were higher than those of Italy and there were even slight increases in employment and investment. That of Tsipras has therefore configured itself as a restoring management and consequently the primary budget deficit has returned, which means that every year someone from outside must add substantial resources: external financing that should be managed by a government that in any other democratic country would make the skin cling, because it puts together the extreme right and the extreme left. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD]] This government always believes that the responsibility for the Greek crisis lies with the outside world, with the evil and the evil world around Greece, with the plutocratic forces of great finance and the economy; that they are always with the economic Nazis that replaced military Nazism and that the European Union absolutely wants to break Greece's kidneys. The referendum instead marked the escape from the responsibilities of a government that, instead of leading the trials and accompanying the country towards stability, preferred the path of flattery, a demagogic lie, a utopia within reach, claiming that there is a way out of the crisis little expensive, always easy and however proud and the Greeks said a clear and strong "no" and celebrated. However, there is nothing to celebrate here. The drugs given in excessive doses certainly hurt and kill the patient, but when you are ill the medicines however, as Italy has done, you have to take them, because you always have to find the difficult balance between budgetary discipline and growth. I shall conclude, Mr President. All the shortcomings that I have accused of and which we blame on Greece do not resolve the European Union, which appears to be a beached whale and our position is clear: this whale must go back to swimming in calm and safe waters; but we want more Europe and no less Europe. We want a federated Europe, not a Europe of nationalism and homeland; we work for the United States of Europe, not for the intergovernmental method that leads us to think of a German Europe rather than a European Germany. We have worked and will work on creating a Europe to unite the peoples, not to divide them, to give hope to the new generations and not to mortify them: a Europe that returns to being the strong lighthouse of civilization, freedom and equality. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u25	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u26	Mr President, Minister Padoan, just yesterday I read an interview with a doctor who is part of the free health care network for Greeks, because now the pulsating part, the middle class of Greece no longer exists, it is now dead, it is poor. He said in this interview that when he has to administer cardioaspirin to a heart disease, he must first make sure that his stomach is full, because it is not very common for this to happen. I say this to respond to the fact that austerity is a false problem. Obviously you, Minister, are nothing more than a failing curator (we have understood this) and that is why I prefer to speak with you rather than with Renzi, because Renzi you send him, with a slightly wider leash, to talk to Merkel to rip out that little flexibility (2-3 billion) that you will need to plug some holes in that law of stability that awaits us for this autumn, for which you absolutely do not know what to do. You don't know where to take the ten billion from so as not to trigger the safeguard clause; you don't know where to take all the money that in the meantime has spent like the Robin tax, which you have spent anyway, or the reverse charge mechanism, that you have put to cover, or that fantastic great reform of the TFR, that we know didn't bring the effects due. So you are on the gas rod and so you are clearly concerned about something else, that is to say, to come and go to the European Commission to launch the great reform, that of bad bank. It would be interesting to understand this, however, dear Minister: are you, now, trying to pack these deteriorated loans from banks to sell them to whom, please? It would be important to know, as well as to know why you are so hostile to the right of citizenship, therefore to the redistribution of wealth, and finally to reduce taxes to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who can no longer make it. Many, unfortunately, have committed suicide, indeed too many in the heart of Europe: you should not allow such a thing. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] , but in order to follow the dictates of Europe the fiscal facilitation of the discipline of losses and write-downs on the credits of the banks, that in 2013 has gone from eighteen to five years and now from five to one, immediately, so. It would then be appropriate to follow the example of Tsipras, who says: Europe is okay, federalism is okay; However, each government must choose its priorities. The priorities of our country are not the banks, at this moment, Minister Padoan [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] : We should look elsewhere then. Another thing: as a good bankrupt curator, I wonder why you keep saying that Italy has exposed itself for 35 billion. I would like to know how this algebraic sum has been made, because there is more to me: for example, there are the 10 billion bilateral loans, the 23 of the old fund saves states, the 6.6 of the Securities market programme, the 14 of the ESM, the ELA's share of about 11 billion, so that we can reach 65 billion. Not to mention the risk of infection. He knows very well, in fact, that we would be the first to suffer aversion to risk: if our returns go up by only two points, this will cost us 3, 4 or 5 billion a year. We, however, have the safeguard clauses: is this what we pretend not to make up the accounts? Greece, in fact, made up the accounts, when you, the great professors of the International Monetary Fund, did not notice. This is strange: but no one wonders why the great professors of Europe did not notice? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]] But what were you doing there? What we do, then, are the great reforms, the hot cloths of corruption, while here we always divide the brands until 2013 in the law of stability, exceeding the accounting laws. This same Parliament also gives money to the Marx foundations, to the Craxi foundations and to the multinationals, in short, it does what it wants, so much so that there are the safeguard clauses to close the holes: think that the League also asked yesterday for the safeguard clause on the payment of pensions. I was horrified. It's always better not to make cuts, because in the cuts you all lose: I want to see you in September-October, PD, Lega, LAG, Forza Italia; how do you make those cuts, where you actually ate those 10 billion? You do not have a government to make cuts, but to impose new taxes: all this Parliament will do is always increase taxes to please Europe. Minister Padoan, I ask you a question that I have already asked you a couple of times, on the occasion of a question time and a hearing of yours: do you really think that in the wake and in the paths of fiscal compact and the achievement of the medium-term objective or in a Juncker plan - which we know very well not to be federal, because they have made the platforms apart, just to follow the nationalisms - our country can grow and finally make its debt sustainable? Do you really believe that? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u27	He is enlisted to speak Senator Romani Paolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u28	Minister, I must confess that I am deeply disappointed by today's information. The irrelevance of the Italian Government is almost the same as the absence of the report that it has carried out today in this House: it did not mention a number, it did not mention costs, nor did it mention what has actually happened in Greece over the years; it did not mention that one of its party colleagues, Papandreou, in 2009, told the world that Greece had forged the accounts to enter the euro and that the real deficit in that country was 12, not 5%. He forgot to say that over the years we have given a total of 240 billion, between the state-saving fund, the ECB and the IMF. He forgot to say what the cost of Greek welfare is: 57 percent of it is paid by contributions, which means 43% is paid by general taxation. In Greece we retire at an average age of fifty-six, in Germany of sixty-two years and we are rising from sixty-two years to an even higher figure. He forgot to say that in Greece, compared to the prospect of retirement later, there are exclusions for 580 occupational categories. He forgot to say that in 2012 a haircut was made on the debts of Greece, a haircut of 110 billion, 30 of which were paid by our country. Who at that time had Greek securities, for every 100 euros of old debt he found himself having to accept 46.5 euros of new securities. We are talking about 110 billion, which is added to the 240 we have lent in two tranches and which we continue to lend as a whole as a Europe system. It has forgotten to say that military expenditure in Greece is equal to 2.7 percent of the state budget, to buy the French Fremms and the German Leopards: I remind you that in Italy these expenditures amount to 1.5 percent of the state budget, while France and Germany themselves, which also have higher military expenditures than ours, do not reach 2.7 percent. Greece's demands speak of debt restructuring, forgetting that the debt has already been restructured: we do not understand the position of the Italian Government on this request for restructuring. Moreover, the Government continues to say that for Italy the cost of the Greek crisis to date or in the case of Grexit would be 31.7 billion. However, there are authoritative international and national observers who argue that the cost in the case of Grexit would be 61 billion instead. What's the right amount? Minister, you just talked about trust this morning. He concluded his speech by remembering that it is not 2012, when there was the most critical moment. He then told us that a negotiation is under way: damn it, we had to know from Minister Padoan that a negotiation is under way, a confrontation between Government and Parliaments? You may have mentioned this because you did not want to mention explicitly that when reference is made to Parliament, while the German Parliament will decide on the outcome of the negotiations so that it will not do the Italian Parliament instead. This morning in this House you refused to indicate what the path will be, what the outcome will be and what the attitude of the Italian Government will be towards this negotiation. We called her here and asked her what the position of the Italian Government was, but we did not know anything about it this morning. He concluded his speech by saying that confidence must be increased. We have no faith in you, if that is the position of the Italian Government. Minister, the irrelevance of the Italian Government in Europe - I repeat - is equal to the total non-susistence and non-consistency of the things that you have told us this morning. I think that Italian citizens should know what awaits them. It seems to me that it should be decided in days. Another example: the Greek Government asks for a 30% VAT discount for the Greek islands. What is the reason why the Italian islands, which should compete with the Greek islands in the tourism sector, do not ask and cannot ask for the same kind of treatment? Why should we grant this privilege? [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and CRi groups.]] They're in line with each other. I recall that in a provocative manner on 28 June the European Union, a few minutes before Tsipras announced the referendum, has published on its website - the text is in English, but for those who do not know English it is translated into Italian in my offices - what the position of the European Commission and European governments really was on the requests of the Greek Government, but we did not have an answer on that too. [[Recalls of the President]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Minister, you spoke of a second construction site, Europe, highlighting the need to speed up the integration process, but with a symmetry between the political behaviors of Northern Europe and Southern Europe. Damn it, is this the only change that we are asking for in relation to the Five Presidents' Plan, which, without any more democracy, risks bringing Europe and all the European countries into the hands of the Brussels Eurocracy? Minister, I don't know why you came here this morning. I can't handle it. I imagined that this morning he would tell us what the path, attitude, position and intentions of the Italian Government were compared to a very difficult and complicated negotiation, but we did not have any response to this. In view, therefore, of the confidence that you say is the parameter to which we must refer, I say to you that I have deep distrust of what the Italian Government will do. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and CRi Groups]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u29	Minister, thank you for your report, which has been documented and articulated and is an accurate representation of the long and troubled negotiations of these months and of the last few weeks between Greece and the Eurogroup. It is a dramatic photograph in some ways, which makes us understand how Greece is now on the brink of precipice and how there are only a few days left, perhaps a few hours, to try to reach a sustainable agreement. Yes, it is necessary to reach an agreement for a number of good reasons concerning very concrete economic, geopolitical and political interests and conveniences at the same time, which I would like to mention here, therefore, by talking about content and not responding to the insults and statements in freedom that I have heard used by some in this debate. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I'm sorry Senator Romani didn't understand how the government line is the need for an agreement. We will explain it to you better, since this is what our Government has done from the start and this is the direction it is moving along. A failure of the negotiations at this point, it should be remembered, would obviously have dramatic costs and repercussions for Greece but, needless to think otherwise, it would have very high costs for the rest of Europe as well. Obviously, Greece's exit from the euro would be a real catastrophe for that country, a financial, economic, social and potentially political catastrophe, which would be aggravated by the chaotic ways in which a new currency would necessarily be introduced. But the impact of a Greek exit on the rest of Europe, and therefore on our country, would have effects that should not be underestimated. I have heard, for those in favour of Grexit, of the possibility that the contagion effect can be easily dealt with from an economic point of view. It is true that we have strengthened, partly new, instruments of intervention, precisely because of the changes that have been introduced over the last two years. But this is true for the short time. The greatest risks and dangers actually concern the medium term. If Greece abandons the euro, then it will be impossible to say that monetary unification is irreversible and therefore the exit of an impossible Member State. Markets will start to give a price to the exit risk of a country and the financing costs of the most exposed peripheral countries will inevitably increase. There is an even worse scenario that can be profiled: a return to the escalation of speculation on spreads, which we have already experienced in the past. It is all the more real that the threat of the explosion of a speculative bubble in Asia, particularly in China, as we are seeing these days, is on the horizon. But then we must consider the geopolitical risks arising from the location of Greece in a highly vulnerable region and with a Mediterranean in flames. The fallout of an economy in a Greek society in vain would dramatically reduce our collective security. And then, finally, there are political considerations. With the exit of Greece, the very founding idea of European integration would be dramatically undermined, increasing the gap between the countries of the North and the South of Europe, which is perhaps the hardest and most serious legacy of this crisis. Europe, in fact, cannot be just the Europe of the strong, a Darwinian Europe, but it must succeed in integrating the peripheral economies at risk, because only in this way can we return to ensuring the prosperity and stability that belonging to Europe has always guaranteed in the past. All efforts must therefore be made. Of course, it is up to Greece today to show its willingness to remain in the euro by committing itself to credible reforms, in order to respect the rules underlying the European Integration Pact. As you said, Minister, it is important to find an economic and political solution for Greece, but it is equally important to find one for Europe. Indeed, Europe, as it is, is not right. The Greek crisis must therefore provide an opportunity for a more general reform of the governance of monetary union that can ensure that such crises no longer have to be addressed in the future. Of course, the solution cannot be the exit of a country from the euro zone or the dismantling of the single currency, as we can easily hear in this debate. Even if many do not realize it, the process of European integration is too advanced to allow such withdrawal today, if not at costs that would become prohibitive for everyone. Going back is a very expensive and wrong recipe, as well as the return to Litetta and Italetta, which, as we have heard today, is instead in the dream of many. These are plans which, in reality, would condemn Europe and Italy to the sure marginality in the new world dominated by the large poles. The best option between the different paths is to move forward and try to get out, not from the euro, but from the policies, even the wrong ones, carried out so far. As you mentioned, our institutions must also be thoroughly renewed, moving places of decision from the European Council and the intergovernmental method to the Community institutions. We must move forward and speed up the process of integration, because Europe needs our country, but our country needs Europe and, thus, the new multipolar world and its balances. It is very difficult, of course, but, having heard the debate and the alternative proposals of today, it is certainly the option to be preferred to all the others. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u30	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u31	The next item is the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft constitutional law of popular initiative No 545. I would remind you that there is a debate on this request in which no more than one speaker will be able to speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. Senator Candiani has the floor to illustrate the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u32	Mr President, already yesterday we had put the request to the attention of this House, we are doing it again today and we will do it again and again until this issue really enters into the Senate debate. I am referring to the need to rebalance the powers that the Constitution leaves to the people with respect to a reality which, on the other hand, seems to want to silence and take away the voice of the citizens and the people. (at 10:53 a.m.) (After CANDIANI). Mr President, let us talk about the request for a statement of urgency on the draft People's Initiative Act No 545. This is a constitutional bill signed by tens of thousands of our fellow citizens, who asked and asked (awaiting a reply from 2012) for the Republican Constitution to be amended, including the possibility of referendums on tax laws and authorization to ratify international treaties. Mr President, we are at the dawn of a new recovery in this House and of the negotiation on constitutional reforms. Already from the first reading we know that, if that bill were to be perfected, we would begin to amend the constitutional arrangements under which the future Chamber of Deputies will be essentially composed, in its vast majority, of unelected members, but chosen by the party secretariats. And the future Senate, if the Government's proposal is confirmed, will no longer be elected, but will be composed of one hundred members chosen by the regional councillors among the regional councillors, in turn chosen by the party secretariats. It is therefore a matter of moving away from the democratic and direct exercise of the citizens of democratic expression. We believe that, precisely in the light of this situation, Mr President, it is necessary to give a strong impetus to a democratic instrument such as the referendum, so that the people can intervene directly, expressing themselves where the matters of the Constitution allow. We also call for tax laws and authorization to ratify international treaties to be included in the subject of referendums. Well, Mr President, there are choices that belong to the time when the Constitution was written that they are very far from the current situation. I am thinking of the ratification of the international treaties, as in the case of TTIP, which will come to this House and also to the House. These are matters which the Constitution currently prevents from being subject to referendums and which we believe must be referendums, even for a democratic maturity which cannot be denied to the people. And - alive God! - no one continues to say or dares to say that the people are not mature to express themselves on these matters, because a true democracy leaves the last word to its citizens, and not to the oligarchies, not to those who defend interests, no matter how legitimate they may be. Mr President, there are countries in this Europe - and I am thinking of Switzerland, a country that is not within the European Union, but is in the heart of Europe - in which citizens are called to express themselves even on the smallest things that belong to everyday life, as on the greatest things that belong to international treaties. Well, this form of democracy must also enter fully into our Constitution. Mr President, with this request for urgency, we call for a parallel path to be taken to the current constitutional reform, so that it is possible for the people, including in our country, to speak with a referendum on matters relating to international treaties and tax laws. It is an exercise in democracy that we must be proud of and not be afraid of. Woe to that democracy that is afraid of the people. It is not a friend of the people that democracy tries to take away his voice. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u35	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, we are talking about a constitutional change. Well, on these issues we are used to seeing often oblique votes: we do not vote on the merit of things, thinking about the country, but on the basis of the flimsy utility for the political forces and the electoral advantages. We see constitutional reforms aimed at blocking the renewals, the third voices, and forcing the political system towards a forced bipolarism that then, rather than an alternation, would guarantee the dominance of a cartel between two oligopolists, and not for a broad purpose, therefore, but for particular interests. The proof is the constitutional reform today used as a sanatorium for an unenforceable and unconstitutional electoral law. The aim of this reform is, therefore, to alter the electoral representation in Parliament. Well, let's not make a similar mistake now. Today the measure is not being voted on, but its urgency. Then we need to make it clear. Who do we think we are, each of us, in this House? Who do we think are our interlocutors? What relations do we think should be established between majority and opposition, but also between government and Parliament? And finally, above all else, to whom must we answer for our work? Then the urgency of a law is assessed - yes - on the substance, but also on the basis of other aspects, which I personally consider to be over-ordered. We are talking, in fact, about a law of popular initiative, one of the highest expressions of democracy, an institution included in our Constitution in Article 71, which reads: The people exercise the initiative of the laws, through the proposal, by at least fifty thousand voters, of a draft drawn up in articles. This article declines a cornerstone of our democracy, inserted in the first part of the Constitution, even in Article 1: Sovereignty belongs to the people. When was the last time a bill of popular initiative was discussed in this House? How many times did it take place after the war? Is it not urgent, then, even to interrupt the self-referentiality of an elected Parliament, only on the citizens' front, but in reality thanks to an unconstitutional law, which in fact put the power of appointment in the hands of a few party secretaries? A fallen senator had to say that we could reduce Parliament to just the Leaders. If this is the electoral law, if the future electoral law will still be this, then yes. But then let's tell the people that Article 1 of the Constitution is poetry. Also tell Roberto Benigni to let go of the Constitution and, if he wants to talk about politics, to dedicate himself to Dante's Hell, which is more appropriate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then we come to the dynamics of this House, to the dictatorship of the perpetuated majority in this House, where we vote only when the majority is safe and, when there is no, we resort to a vote of confidence, with the threat of going home, to the ballot boxes, without perhaps having earned a pension. Some parties have monkeyed our primaries and boasted that they have introduced so many new MPs. Well, they're keeping them under blackmail today. Then at least have the courage to give minorities the right to propose. Our proposals are: anti-corruption and taxation for companies, for families and for a public TV really intended as a service, such as the income of citizenship, a measure that in Europe is lacking only in Italy, because even Greece and Hungary - and I said everything - are later. It is a proposal opposed by the mafias, by the caporalates, by those who speculate on social conflict, on the crisis, and by this Government. With what results, then? You see, then it is not even a question of dialectics between majority and opposition: we are witnessing an occupation of Parliament and the legislative prerogatives of this House which, from the pragmatic point of view of the results for the country, brings only warm cloths and camouflage. Today, then, discussing a law of popular initiative also has the meaning of correcting the occupation of the public thing by a government that is biased by definition, which was not chosen by the citizens, but was voted by appointed parliamentarians and, ultimately, even imposed by logic and pressure of the troika. Finally, on the substance of the measure, which calls for tax laws to be subject to a repealing referendum. Today the Constitution forbids it, but perhaps the time is ripe for an enlargement of the power of citizens to intervene directly on this issue too. The Constitution probably intended to protect taxes, the certainty of tax revenues for the functioning of public affairs, which is good. Even a minister said that taxes are a beautiful thing, because they put everyone in a position to contribute to public affairs in proportion to their income. Then it comes to my mind that taxes are a beautiful thing and not to be touched only to the extent that they are really proportional, fair, legitimate. If, on the other hand, a government imposes taxes on us on the house, a policy of unreasonable rigour, with dramatic implications, wrong by the admission of the International Monetary Fund itself, which said "on austerity" we were wrong; if in the face of this - and we have just talked about it with Minister Padoan, instead, we have the proof that the Government pervicaciously goes against the evidence and interest of a people, then the instrument must be returned to the people. What are you afraid of? Are you afraid that taxes will be abolished tout court? But a referendum of this kind would not be acceptable, because it would lead to a legislative vacuum that the Court would not accept. Or are we afraid that citizens will intervene to say that the house cannot be taxed, insofar as it does not correspond to another constitutional principle, namely that taxes must be proportionate to income? And the house is not an income tool; you rate it when it is a speculative tool, but not the home house. And then what are you afraid of? Is it afraid that citizens will repeal the rules that have allowed gambling to spread indiscriminately, altering the collective imagination of a people, the economy, the budgets of families, and leading to a situation in which hundreds of thousands of people have become ill and suffer? Is that what you're afraid of? We have just seen that the reordering of gambling has been entrusted to a tax law. Is that where people are afraid that they will have a say in the matter? Beyond the content of the bill we are debating today, which could also be amended, improved, specified thanks to your contribution, we do not make the mistake today of considering it to be different and of thinking that it is possible to put it still in a drawer, keeping an entire people crushed by a political caste that thinks only of its own interests. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u38	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know and share, the referendum is the most important institution of direct democracy provided for in our Constitution. In our country, unlike many other countries in the European Union, the referendum institution has not only been widely used, but sometimes - as we remember and have already seen in the past - also abused. The repealing referendum is to all intents and purposes an act having the force of law placed among the sources of primary law. The subject matter of the referendum can be laws or acts having the force of law, and therefore not sources of constitutional rank. These limits over time have gradually been more and more extensive, following the numerous pronouncements of the Constitutional Court. Suffice it to say that as many as 20 countries out of 27 held at least one referendum on issues such as the European Treaties, entry into the European Community or accession to the euro. Everyday reality therefore teaches us that the European Union marks our lives, regulates our work. In the face of such important and fundamental acts, the veto on the exercise of the direct participation of citizens in the Treaties of the European Union appears - in our view - not only anachronistic, but also a genuine violation of the democratic principle which is based on popular sovereignty. If the European Union is based on the principle of the rule of law, this is only possible through the free and democratic approval of the rules of that rule of law. This means that all actions undertaken by the European Union are based on treaties that are freely and democratically approved by all the Member States of the European Union. It seems trivial to recall this, but at this dramatic moment in Europe, which has been hit by a serious economic and financial crisis, there has been an exponential increase in the European Union's policy and policy activity, which has heavily affected the free choices of the Member States. And the case of Greece is only the last example. European economic policy, especially in economic terms, has drawn up a road map which, in fact, has heavily influenced the interventions of national governments, affecting in a significant way also in tax matters. The treaties, of course, will also have a major impact on our country's tax policy, and that goes without saying. The Government will be forced, if it wishes to fulfil its Community obligations, to impose a tax on citizens without prejudice. This is not just a science fiction description, but it is exactly what has happened, and the effects are already widely visible and concrete, especially in recent years, from 2011 to today. In addition, I would like to add a note which will not escape you, Mr President: this has happened precisely by governments which, with the democratic verification of the elections, have nothing to do with it. To find a direct response, I just want to remind you of the mystification carried out by the Monti Government in the re-introduction of the hateful tax on the house, improperly using the same name as IMU, that single municipal tax, provided for by Article 8 of Legislative Decree No. 23 of 2011, which referred to the great matter of municipal fiscal federalism the reorganization of that taxation. To tax the main house is - in our opinion - deeply unfair, and we certainly do not share it, because it means hitting a primary good by paradoxically affecting twice, as all sane people know, on the fruit of work and saving - I repeat twice - in clear violation of the constitutional principle referred to in Article 53, which states that everyone is obliged to contribute to public expenditure because of their capacity to contribute, according to the criterion of progressiveness. A horizontal patrimony, such as that constituted by the re-introduction of the IMU - in that way and with all the brain joints that we have seen produced in recent years, between acronyms that changed the name but not the substance - has severely damaged the Italian economy and the Italian owners of the house, who - thank God - were many, but we will not see so many more, since that taxation will prevent many Italian families from buying the house. In the light of the above, a constitutional amendment to Article 75, which regulates the referendum, is improcrastinable, eliminating those limits for which the people cannot be directly involved in tax matters and international treaties. If this did not happen and, above all, if we tried to stop this reform, on the grounds that they were justified in being about the people's inability to decide for the best, we would be faced with a clear violation of the democratic principle on which our own Constitution is founded. With this bill, which we support, we basically want to reaffirm that there can be no real democracy without the people actually participating in the fate of their own country. Erich Fromm wrote: Democracy can resist the authoritarian threat only if it is transformed from "democracy of passive spectators" into "democracy of active participants," in which the problems of the community are familiar to the individual and for him as important as his private affairs." Italians have already demonstrated wisdom and maturity in the past, expressing themselves on great issues. I just want to mention a few: from divorce to funding to parties, and many others. Then I wonder why they should not do so, and do it well, on their taxes and on the treaties from which tax laws originate, those of the great Europe, which in recent years have made tax pressure one of the highest in the world. That is why we support the proposal, which this morning is in the attention of the Assembly, to amend Article 75 of the Constitution and restore strength and credibility to our country, even in its painful and difficult choices, but - alive God! - made by Italians and not by bureaucracies. [[Applause from the CRI Group and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u41	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to say that, with regard to the issues that were raised yesterday, we will have a different position today and, therefore, we will support the process of proceeding with the proposed constitutional revision that has been made, with a clarification that seems to us to be necessary, and that concerns the subjection of the subjection to a repealing referendum of tax laws. We are totally convinced that taxation cannot be attacked above all in its principles of proportionality and compulsory participation in the organisation and, therefore, in the costs of organising the national democratic institutional system. It can be attacked on individual tributes, particularly unfair, not bearable and however unjustified. On these points the referendum is absolutely usable. It is these weeks and the last months that the discussion - for example - on the IMU and, in particular, on the agricultural sector, namely the possibility of sanctioning - because of a sanction - a productive sector vital for our economy, such as agriculture, to penalise and hit it, unlike other sectors of economic activity, through the imposition of a particularly unfair, unbearable and intolerable leap. We are even more convinced of the need today to subject ratification of the international treaties to a repealing referendum. These, today, directly affect the living conditions of individual citizens. And they do so in an articulated and not always homogeneous way within the national territory. They do this, to some extent, by subjecting important parts of our economy and society to a bully that is welcomed internationally by other states. In order to remain within the scope of the subject I mentioned earlier, the organization of the economic sector of agriculture, I quote powdered milk to make cheeses. When we derive from an international treaty conditions that attack not only our productive capacity, but also the productive diversity, the quality of food and the health of people (conditions that impose themselves on the altar of a profit often organized unfairly by financial power stations and unmistakably influential economic power in the political organization of supranational systems), and have a severe impact on human life, we have a duty to ask people whether or not they agree to be imposed. We are convinced that it is a duty of our country to understand, to know what are the consequences that are determined in a particular territory and economic sector for the acceptance of some new rules that are imposed on the international level. And we must do this above all because these rules affect the living conditions and the health of people, and there can be no one who cannot and should not be consulted on this issue to express his opinion and opinion. There is also a need for more democracy, Mr President. Since Parliaments are somewhat bypassed - for example, we look at the ratifications of international treaties as a second item on the agenda, as something that in many cases is not even worth reading - then we have to go back to the citizen, because he lives the laws on his own skin. There are steps managed in a bureaucratic and non-democratic way by Parliament as well. That is why we shall vote in favour of the draft law before us, only for the purposes of procedure. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u44	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, which we believe is consistent with the vote we voted yesterday in favour of a renegotiation of the European Treaties for a more democratic European Union, with institutions directly expressed by the citizens and truly representative, that the citizens feel, not like an external enemy or an abstract entity, but as a democratic expression. Europe is either democratic or it is not clear what sense it can have. Consequently, if it is democratic, the additional treaties that can be concluded must be submitted to referendums. We know well the historical origin of the exclusion of international treaties from the scope of the laws submitted to referendums that the constituent Fathers wanted. The reason for this was NATO membership, which, although not yet formally founded, in fact already worked as a military alliance between the democratic countries of Western Europe, including, of course, Italy and the United States of America. I recall that the main opposition party of the time, the Communist Party, whose heirs are in this House, was against NATO, being in favour of the blockade of communist countries led by Stalin at the time. The fear, on the one hand, of the pro-Westerns to lose a referendum of this kind and, perhaps, of the Communist Party to win it, prompted the introduction of this ban which, obviously, given the changed times, has no reason to be. In the same way, I believe that we are at a time when tax laws can also be submitted to referendums. Just remember that Italians are mature enough and responsible not to say yes to anything that seems to create an advantage. I remember the referendum held in 1992 on the so-called escalator and the contingency allowance: the Italians, with a majority that would necessarily include even a large number of employees who benefited from it, nevertheless they felt - certainly the other choice was respectable too - that, even if in the immediate future it could have the appearance of bringing a benefit, for that time, according to the choices made, it was more convenient not to make use of it. Well, beyond the fact that that choice was right or not - and I believe it was - the Italians have also shown on that occasion that they are not irresponsible. And if someone were to propose a referendum to abolish an important tax, I really do not think they would make rash moves. Therefore, in line with our programme, which calls for a profound renewal of the European Union, including the direct election of the President of the Commission, which is also wanted by agendas presented by the PD vote, we agree with this proposal. I am surprised that those who voted in favour of the agendas calling for greater democratisation of European bodies, and in particular the direct election of the President of the European Commission, yesterday we voted against the referendum on the revision of the European Union and today against the possibility of submitting the international treaties to referendums. I would say that since 1947 something should have changed, but maybe for someone it hasn't changed much. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u47	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote against the request for urgency. No reason has been given for this request for urgency and for this attention to the people's initiative - and therefore to the request for an early inclusion in the agenda - no justification has been given. I would like to add one question: why should not all other laws of popular initiative be urgent? The reason for this was clear from this debate, in which it was pointed out that, the reason for the request, is the use of the discussion of this bill in an electoral key. From this point of view, I believe that the observation made by Senator Endrizzi needs an answer: according to him, those who opposed the request for urgency would have been the expression of the caste. Precisely in the words of those who supported this position is the expression of the caste, that is, of that political caste that does not pay attention to the merit of the problems, but plays everything tactically with respect to deviant and biegious interests of part. From this point of view, I would like to make a serious reflection on the subject, not on commercials or on the part of the party involved: we are faced with a question that reminds us of the difference between direct democracy and representative democracy. Ours is a representative democracy in which, in accordance with Article 1 of the Constitution, the distribution of powers is very clear and precise and has a balance. Each has its own role and the people also have the space they must have in a representative democracy. Each has its own role: in a democracy it is always necessary that there be an area of government that remains fully in the willingness of those who were elected to govern, because if it is representative democracy and government of representation there cannot be a mechanism for which the will of the people on certain issues replaces the decisions of the Government. At that point the will of the people will come into play at the time of the elections, whether or not they share political positions. This is most evident in the attempt to introduce the repealing referendum on tax laws and ratification of international treaties. Do we really believe that in a democracy there is real space for a repealing referendum on tax policy, taxes? Do we really believe that this kind of democracy holds up? Have we really raised the question of what would be the effect of the repealing referendum of a tax law? It would be the vacuum of standardization, there would be no propositive elements: it would be a referendum that aims to introduce into the law a different tax law, a different tax forecast, then it would also make sense of a sort of direct government, but it would come about with a positive proposal, not a negative one. This is the true meaning of the question and the absolute denial of this position and these statements. Do you really think that direct democracy is also achieved through referendums on Europe's issues? From this point of view there is the legitimate position of those who want to change the same basic treaty as the European Union: well, this can certainly be called into question, but let us look for the right ways to have such debates. If we have care and attention to the democratic system, to its defence, even with all the limitations that the democratic system has, we must stop at these demagogic and populist pressures, because democracy will not prevail on this road at all, but only a destruction of the democratic sense and representative democracy that will not serve anyone. The political battle has limits. The political battle has the clear limit, for those in the conscious enclosure of democracy, not to destroy democracy itself. Partisan interest cannot go this far. There is a responsibility of politics and politicians, recalled by our Constitution. Let us try, then, for once, to testify to our Constitution and not simply to invoke it on a rhetorical level to justify battles that do not really make sense and that, instead of giving the people a perspective, deny it to them. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u50	FALANGA (CRI). Mr President, I rise very briefly to say that I would have had the intention of voting differently than my Group on the request for an urgent statement and making an explanation of vote on it. You have rightly pointed out, however, that this type of dissenting intervention is not possible. For this reason, I ask that this rule, which also limits the possibility of the individual senator's expression, be put to the attention of the competent Senate body for its possible modification. This morning, because of you, I do not have the opportunity to explain the reasons why I shall be voting against the request for an urgent statement on the draft constitutional law of popular initiative No 545.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u51	Senator Falanga, present a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, which will be dealt with in a very short time. I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft constitutional law No. 545, made by Senator Candiani. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u52	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1176-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Morra, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u53	Mr President, the bill under consideration, approved by the Senate at its session on 28 May 2014, No 249, instituted the Gift Day, to be celebrated on 4 October each year, in order to spread the awareness of the contribution that donation choices and activities can bring to the growth of Italian society. [[Brusio]] Mr President, excuse me, I take about 30 seconds to make the environment a little quieter. The bill consists of three articles. Article 1 recognizes in October 4 of each year a day dedicated to the gift. The day aims to offer citizens the opportunity to gain a greater awareness of the contribution that donation choices and activities can bring to the growth of Italian society, recognizing in them a form of commitment and participation in which the primary values of freedom and solidarity, affirmed by the Constitution, find an expression particularly worthy of being recognized and promoted. On the occasion of the Gift Day, as laid down in Article 2, it is possible to organize ceremonies, initiatives, meetings, common moments of reflection, presentations so that the idea is the practice of the gift are the subject of attention in all the forms they can take and so that their importance receives the comfort of cultural insights and testimonies regarding the experiences of free and free commitment that are actually realized in Italian society. Initiatives must not lead to new or increased burdens on public finances. The administrations concerned shall comply with the obligations arising from the draft law under consideration with the human, instrumental and financial resources available under existing legislation. Finally, in article 3, the only amendment made by the House, it was specified that the Gift Day does not determine civil effects for festive celebrations according to a normative provision. I have nothing else to say, so I shall return to the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u54	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u55	Mr President, I believe I am the only senator who is speaking in general debate in this draft law and probably the reason is that none of you has found the issue of setting up the Gift Day interesting this morning. I have read the presentation report of the first signatory of the provision, Senator Ciampi, where it is written - or, at least, Senator Ciampi says - that on the theme of the Gift Day committees of intellectuals have been engaged and cultural debates have been held. I, for the truth, do not believe that stimulation to emotions and feelings (because of this matter) can take place through the approval of a law of the State that recognizes October 4 of each year as a Gift Day. This measure has crossed a way of return, having been examined first in the Senate and, then, in the Chamber, where it has been modified with the addition of article 3, which reads as follows: The Gift Day referred to in Article 1 does not determine the civil effects referred to in the Law of 27 May 1949, 260. I shall go further and understand who is the creator of this amendment which, to a useless bill, has added an even more useless article, making a measure go the wrong way, with costs determined by the extension of the sitting of the Assembly of which someone was just talking to me about and which are relevant. Here we are spending public money because a Member has decided to introduce this Article 3. For the sake of clarity, it is specific that the Budget Committee has said that the measure does not produce any burden, whereas Article 3 specifies that the Gift Day does not determine the civil effects of the law of 1949, n. 260. The latter declares national holidays on 1 July, 4 August and 25 September and so on. This is therefore not included on 4 October. What then is the need to specify that the Gift Day does not produce the effects of Law No 260 of 1949 if the date of October 4 is not included among the national holidays indicated by the same? It could then also be said that the Gift Day does not produce the effects of Laws No. 40 of 1954 or No. 25 of 1966! Anything could be said! And so this unnecessary change has led to the need for another examination by the Senate. I personally am not passionate about this subject. When I was told this morning that the draft law was due to be voted on today for the establishment of Gift Day, I wondered what it was. I have also asked colleagues and none of you knew it; you do not know what we are voting on this morning. I then allowed myself to make this brief and modest intervention to tell you that we are approving a useless measure at a time when our country would instead need to see ours committed - yours, more than mine - intelligences and ours - yours, more than mine - ability to deepen problems and issues useful to citizens and the country. And we are here, with the authoritative President Calderoli, to set up the Gift Day without this producing any legal effects of any kind. I personally remain here to vote not to lose my presence, but only for exquisitely economic purposes, because - otherwise - I would already be outside the Chamber (my attention to the economic profile of my finances is known). I remain here in the vote, but I will abstain. The truth, in fact, is that in life you - and not even the authority of President Ciampi - cannot force me to do something definitely useless. If you only do it because Ciampi asks you, congratulations and good wishes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u56	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u57	Mr President, today we are talking about a measure that seems to be very interesting, because in fact it wants to give people the opportunity to reflect on themselves a bit. In fact, Article 1 reads the ratio contained in the standard. The legislator tells us that this day it is intended to be established in order to offer citizens the opportunity to acquire a greater awareness of the contribution that the choices and the donating activities can bring to the growth of Italian society, recognizing in them - therefore in these donating activities - a form of commitment and participation in which the primary values of freedom and solidarity affirmed by the Constitution find a highly worthy expression of being recognized and promoted. The day you want to establish as a Gift Day is October 4th. October 4th is the day of Saint Francis of Assisi, patron saint of Italy. The only doubt that actually comes to me about this provision is that it is not forgotten, however, that October 4th is the day of St. Francis of Assisi, in which we must remember the saint who is recognized, even for those who are not Christian Catholics, as a person very, very close also to the thought that Pope Francis recently inserted into the gift he made us with the encyclical, "Laudato si'." Well, then the nature of St. Francis of Assisi is recognized as that of a person with a strong vocation to ecology and the environment. And the most just provision that we are examining actually has something important in itself, because it manages to make people stop to reason on the gesture of the gift: give, give to someone without anything wanting in return. On October 4th it is actually, at least for me, another important date, another gift that has been made - I believe - to Italian society: Beppe Grillo instituted the 5 Star Movement. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] October 4th is that day there, it is the day when this movement of citizens was born, free, of hope; they are people free of partycrazie [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , which in fact are here simply to bring the voices of the citizens. So what's more beautiful than incorporating this gift concept on October 4th? This gift that someone calls comic, but that's fine, because the term "comic" must not be understood in a negative sense, since very often in history have been the comedians who, with their intelligence and their savoir-faire have managed to tell the truth. Well, in this piece of legislation, institutions of every order are given the opportunity to organize specific days on which to reflect on the gift. Since, however, October 4th is the day when Italy remembers St. Francis of Assisi, alas I too take a step back and I really sprinkle the head of ash for not having proposed, within Article 2, to remember I do not say the 5 Star Movement (even if it would be important), but at least that October 4th is the day dedicated to St. Francis of Assisi. Very often, Mr President, one actually forgets the reason why one wishes a person on the day of his name: it is done because he wishes that person to be like that saint, like that person whom the Church has thought to take into account in order to become better people. I believe, Mr President, that St. Francis of Assisi fits fully within the concept inherent in this bill, that is, the gift. St. Francis of Assisi actually, if you trace his story, he is a particular character, because he does not come from religious schools or from experiences that can make us think of a subject that would then become the patron of Italy, therefore a person to keep in high consideration at the moral level. I would therefore like to propose an amendment, but I cannot because the deadline for submission has expired; perhaps I could table an agenda to try to include in Article 2 the memory of the patron saint of Italy in the schools. All this ignores the fact that a person is secular or Catholic, also because the concept of secularism is sometimes transformed and turned upside down. I myself am a layman, because obviously I am not a religious, but this does not mean that many things of religion (here in Italy Catholicism is the most studied) are not very interesting. Saint Francis of Assisi, in fact, is recognized regardless of religious membership, so it would be advisable to insert an agenda for this purpose. The Gift Day should actually start from a concept that is to give without thinking of a personal gain, so it is certainly important to talk about it in schools. But there is another peculiarity in the bill: indeed, as it is right that it should be, it leaves ample scope for interpretation on what it is, indeed! I am referring to those who may have to organize ceremonies, initiatives, meetings and common moments of reflection in order to emphasize and remember the Day of Gift. But I repeat, we cannot fail to remember St. Francis of Assisi on this day, because among the many lessons he has given us there is that of gratuitousness and gratitude. St. Francis of Assisi was not a church man; it cannot be said that he grew up in a certain way and that they brainwashed him: no, no, no. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] He led a normal life, perhaps even abnormal, that is, contrary to what could be considered the canon. Some might say that St. Francis of Assisi enjoyed his life as a young man. But no! More than anything else, he had a personal spiritual journey. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u58	Senator Puglia, we're talking about gift day. The life of St. Francis will be discussed in another measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u59	[[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni.]] PUGLIA (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, for remembering this, but it seems strange to me that there is applause, because St. Francis of Assisi is directly linked to this bill: the Gift Day will be October 4, and that day is also that of St. Francis of Assisi. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If one speaks of a gift, one cannot ignore remembering St. Francis of Assisi. Since it's probably annoying to hear about St. Francis of Assisi... CARDINALI (PD). It's bothering you. PUGLIA (M5S). .. so much so that you urged the President to remind me that in reality we are talking about something different, I continue to insist that this day must not be disconnected from the Patron of Italy. Having said that, it is absolutely important to make people stop thinking, also because now, in this society that in a certain sense we can call self-centered, therefore very based on the ego, it could certainly be a touch to remember that the self-doer does not do much. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is a phrase that I truly remember with joy and that was transferred to me by another person, who, by the way, asked me nothing in return: he gave it to me. So it is certainly appropriate that in our schools we remember the practice of giftgiving. CARDINALI (PD). Mr. President, you're making fun of us! PUGLIA (M5S). And remember that if we go further into human history, there is also a treatise on gift theory, which was written by a Frenchman. This gift theory, in fact, Mr President, is very well known and important for the history of anthropology. It is, of course, based on the exchange of goods, even if of non-essential intrinsic value. It is one of the most common and universal ways to create human relationships. In fact, if we think about it, being the gift a gesture that does not have a gain behind it, those who receive it at a free heart actually understand that on the other side there is a person who has absolutely no double ends. Politics, in fact, could also be a gift if it were explained without personal gain. In fact, very often someone reminds us, especially with gestures, words and actions, that in reality politics is a service to others; that is, it is that moment when, both the family of that politician and himself, they suspend something of their own and subtract something of their own to give it to the community. So politics is also a gift, and actually this day and this provision could certainly offer an idea of reflection and make it grow intellectually (I don't say spiritually, otherwise the PD could always get angry). Intellectually, there is a growth of the person. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, forgive me, but I am overreacting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u60	It is the enthusiasm that stirs up your speech, Senator Puglia.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u61	PUGLIA (M5S). In reality, always based on gift theory, this French thinker supposes in the gift of mechanisms. How beautiful, sometimes, is the human thought that, even through things that are not seen, can reflect and make to touch, at least intellectually, what is not normally seen. This thinker divides the gift into three moments, based on the principle of reciprocity. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Stop! D'ANNA (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PpI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Let him talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, let Senator Puglia continue, who is about to finish his time. PUGLIA (M5S). Colleagues, there are set times. So, have some patience. Normally this House is deserted. So if you ever want to do what you do every day, Jateven went home. Go home! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This theory is based on three fundamental moments and the principle of reciprocity. The first is the time to give. The second is the time to receive the object or, perhaps, the non-object, therefore the action. And then, always this thinker, unlike what we normally are used to thinking, inserts the third moment, which is that of the spare. He affirms that the gift implies a strong gift of freedom, but the beautiful thing is precisely the insertion of this third point. Mr President, I shall conclude because I have finished my time, which has been legitimately requested and has been legally included in the timetable. Mr President, the particular thing is this third point: replacement. Reciprocating, of course even with a smile, makes people better. Mr President, I personally like this bill, so I will certainly vote in favour of it. However, I have only one reservation: alas, it was necessary to insert in article 2 something that connected this bill to Saint Francis of Assisi. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]] You're from the LN-AUT group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u62	I am sorry, but the encores are not allowed under our Rules of Procedure. [[Laughter.]] The general debate is closed. [[Senator Giovanardi points out that he wants to intervene.]] I call the rapporteur. Mr Morra, rapporteur. No, I do not intend to reply, Mr President: it seems to me that it is necessary to give up. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government. Mr BONDELLI, State Secretary for Labour and Social Policy. Mr President, I give up my reply. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u65	LIUZZI (CRI). Mr President, Madam Undersecretary Biondelli, I must confess to this House that I have marked with considerable scepticism the approach to the subject on the agenda, namely the idea of establishing by law, although in the celebratory form of a dedicated day, what concerns human categories such as the availability to the other, the other, the availability of mind, the individual solidarity, as if establishing a legislative obligation of what is customary, lifestyle, civilization, civil coexistence, subsidiarity. On the other hand, to a more in-depth and more thoughtful reflection, the paradigmatic and pedagogical value of a feast dedicated to the mutual donation and enrichment of the donor and the recipient appears to be of great importance in order to establish a Community and national attitude of a tradition and a figure of civilization. Perhaps, in the interventions that have been carried out so far, we have also tried to trivialize the very idea of gift, but I believe that it adheres to our tradition, all Italian, to have a willingness towards the third, the next. These are personal resources: we usually provide time, energy, skills, but also financial means, material assets. However, in the great tradition of subsidiarity, for example, there are emblematic phenomena such as voluntary work in the field of the national health system, such as the blood bank, the organ bank and the time bank. It seems to me important to remember here, a few days after the adoption in this House of the draft law on school reform, that teaching can be part of those categories of gift. In this case it does not make me mention a philosopher of the happy decrease such as Marcel Henaff, it is important his reflection on teaching when he says that it is part of those professions of the gift in which those who sow it for the future and its sowing is not esteemable under the sign of quantification of the gross domestic product, but subsidiarity and solidarity certainly contribute in a remarkable way to give the country, in terms of GDP, certainly something inestimable and equally important. I believe that the Gift Day is welcome, and it is one of those occasions when the national spirit can find a sense of confluence, that is of coexistence. I also think that the pedagogical value of the Gift Day is mainly addressed to the younger generations, that is, to the awareness of offering to the younger generations conditions of greater serenity in which also the donor choices can express a renewed confidence in the future. I think this is really the value of the Gift Day. Therefore, even as contained in the reform of Title V of the Constitution, in which the principle of subsidiarity between public and private and between the various organisational levels of the State, from the central to the peripheral, is a decisive factor of the Constitutional Charter, the vote of the Italian Conservatives and Reformists Group will also be favourable for the last considerations I am preparing to make. Reasoning the gift means in fact contributing to the achievement of a higher degree of cohesion of the country and to the work never concluded of forming an increasingly mature national identity. [[Applause from the CRi Group and Senator Lo Moro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u68	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, this is an opportunity to recall how important it is for our society to be the component of gratuitousness in what is done, as some of our colleagues who mentioned earlier that the gift itself is not only the gift, but can be the gift of blood and organs; personal resources, such as time, energy, skills, can be given. Perhaps this is the time to reflect on the possibility of discovering or at least rediscovering the value of gratuitousness as a lifeblood of our community. This is certainly the time to remember all the value that volunteering has in our society, this great component of many people who dedicate their time, with great passion, to the community in which they live. Volunteers also become, in some ways, a way to fill the gaps left by the institutions, by the same lack of services. Unfortunately, we see it every day when we find those people who follow the disabled on Sundays, those who devote themselves to civil protection, the alpine people who in my area have carried out a lot of activities in a totally free way, thus dedicating themselves to their countries, their people, their neighbours, sometimes without even demanding a thank you. So let's talk about this Gift Day and don't put too much emphasis on making it a day that no one will actually notice. Perhaps it is a bit generic as a theme, when, instead, with regard to the effects, if we want to talk especially about volunteering, in our opinion a moment of attention can also be given. Therefore, from this point of view, the entire Group of the North League declares its vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u71	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Madam Undersecretary, Senator colleagues, Senator colleagues, in terms of the argument on Gift Day, I would avoid any clerical or religious assessment, preferring to make an argument on the political philosophy point, to give foundation to the institution of Gift Day on 4 October. Gifting, which is worth much more than gifting as such, is certainly the prerogative of the inner forum, as well as ontological qualities to be recognized and updated in moral action. He gives himself in the discretion of hiding, which extinguishes in the birth the emphasis, the display, the admiration of others: a confidentiality that does not humiliate. It might seem improper, precisely because intrinsically linked to the options of human subjectivity, to establish by law the Gift Day, or, on the other side, even tautological, precisely because the gifting is written in the nature of the human being. Yet the creation of the Day of Gift on 4 October is not limited to a spontaneous initiative, nor to a redundant regulatory superstructure. There are good reasons, not only moral or ethical, which, as we know, cannot be reduced or exhausted in a legal structure, but can be and are of ethical-social and therefore political orientation. We could say that there are good reasons for political ethics for setting up the Gift Day, and in fact, not by chance, in the article of the bill, in Article 1, it is said precisely that the primary values of freedom and solidarity established by the Constitution find an expression highly worthy of being recognized and promoted. We could therefore also talk about a pedagogical scope of the norm, a pedagogy that can be socially contagious. Gifting, as we have said, is an intrinsically personal and oblative act, it is an openness to the other, according to some principles recalling those of reciprocity and freedom. When I speak of the principle of reciprocity, I obviously do not confuse it or overlap it with the other, which is the mere principle of intersubjectivity. Why does the principle of reciprocity form the basis of giving? In reciprocity, every human individual, as a constitutively relational subject, places himself in the disposition of one being for another, recognizing every beyond and every other in equality. In intersubjectivity, however, the human individual is in a position to be simply with another, i.e. in a contractual order, regulated mainly by compliance with rules and norms, therefore in an anthropological and politically cold position. The leap in relational quality can be problematic in intersubjectivity. In reciprocity the relational quality is already in itself, it is in itself. But can donating be considered a political category? I think that is the question we have to ask ourselves today. The answer is yes because this is the scope of the law that we are going to approve today. It is not a simple statement, it is not a generic statement, but a significant testimony of a hoped-for social pedagogy, actually lived as a resilience to a widespread sense of speculation and utilitarianism, as well as indifferent to values. In the social dimension, that is political, donating is ordained as a virtuous act for the realization of a shared community ethics, solidarity and, therefore, also subsidiary. It is based on the "philia," the love of friendship and presupposes the paradigm of freedom. At this point we might ask ourselves, but what freedom? Wanting to give an answer to a question of this weight and so burdensome we could recall the classic distinction of Isaiah Berlin, which, in "Two concepts of freedom", distinguishes between a positive freedom, a "freedom" (as the author said), understood as an ability to act in accordance with his own desires and purposes, also called self-determination or, even more appropriately, autonomy, and a negative freedom, a "freedom" (as Isaiah Berlin said "freedom from" ), as a lack of impediments and constraints. We could then say that donating presupposes both freedom, the positive and the negative. Yet this consideration does not satisfy us. However, it leaves us a margin of value and argumentative indecipherability. In fact, even in the fullness of a positive freedom, "freedom" seems not to fully recognize the social alliance based on the constitutive human relationality. It is the latter who needs an even more significant freedom, I would say ethically justifiable for the institution of donating. It is that freedom that has been defined not as "freedom" of "freedom" or "freedom" but as "freedom" for "freedom" where there is no separation between inner and outer freedom: the second extends the first. Those who want to decline the gift in the sense of a "freedom" will be uncontested master, absolute dominus, intangible and unapproachable emperor, but in reality will be an unrelated subject, will live in its dimension, not of giving, but simply of giving, because they are concepts completely distinct from each other. Those who decline freedom only as "freedom" and "freedom" are in the certainty of wanting to give in order to receive something; those who decline freedom in the constitutive relationship proper to being a man, as "freedom" for "freedom" know very well that, at the moment he gives, he receives in himself. This is the freedom that combines gratuitousness, reciprocity and solidarity: one opens himself to the other and recognizes him worthy of himself. In short, in opening up to the other, in giving, you already receive and to me it seems that this can fit perfectly into a political category. In the few seconds I still have available I would like to recall a testimony of how donating becomes social pedagogy. In a municipality of the Campania Region, during the period when there was the problem of waste, in a school abandoned some volunteers began to collect a little 'differentiated. When they found books, they began to collect them and this was a contagious civic pedagogy. Since then, since 2008, with the volumes collected a library has been created, which is not by chance called "The Gift". About 2,000 volumes were donated to the needy in Scampia or to the children in hospitals. In seven years 30,000 school texts have been donated to needy students, because everyone goes there and gives books. Currently there are 6,000 volumes of essays and novels, 50 encyclopedias and 1,500 ancient texts. It is a tangible testimony of how giving, in the simplest and most immediate dimension, without making any theological reflection, which would be very dear to me, truly becomes social pedagogy. I end here, recalling a citation, not by chance, of Lucio Anneo Seneca, who in the seventh book of the Dialogues dedicates these few words, within a much broader context, to a political character with a brilliant career, as well as brother, Novato Gallione: "Wrong is who thinks giving is easy. Nature requires me to do good to men, whether slaves or free, whether born free or not. What difference does it make if it's a legal freedom or a friendship? Where there is a man there is also the possibility of doing good. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and AP (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u74	BENCINI (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to remind Senator Falanga that this draft law was passed here a year ago, and if only a few people have joined the debate today, it was actually a wide-ranging debate that was held last time. The correction was then necessary. We were missing from the Senate that we didn't introduce it because we could create disputes between workers and the dada, so it was necessary for it to be there. In addition, the senator said that he would stay in the Chamber mainly for economic purposes. So he'll be honored to be there, he won't be cut off his diary, and maybe that part will devolve it to an association aimed at doing good to the needy. [[Comments from the CRi Group.]] He'll do what he thinks is best, but I'm sure he'll donate it too. Another matter. Making demagogy or electoral ads in this situation is really an opportunism that I do not share. Also making a parallel between St. Francis and Cricket for the birth of a Free Movement, this also makes me really run away from laughing, also because crying I cried enough when I was inside the Movement and I cried when "St. Cricket" lifted me out of the Movement at the hands of Santangelo. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD and Senator Campanella. Ironic applause and comments from the M5S Group]] This movement of body did well, in fact, because inside it there was such a movement that it gave me a hallucinating peristalsis. Let's get back to the serious talk now. I'm sorry and I'm sorry about the rash... SANTANGELO (M5S). Bravo! [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u75	Senator Bencini, I remind you of the object we are discussing, namely Gift Day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u76	BENCINI (Mixed). That's right, they donated that to me: I came out of the Movement with a nice colitis! However, returning to today and to the importance of this day, rereading the interventions of then I was caught by two different sensations. On the one hand, the appreciation for the fine words and deep considerations, almost all of which can be shared, expressed on the importance of the gift understood as a free gesture, accomplished without the claim of nothing in return. Also touching are the many quotations, the many aphorisms concerning the value of giving and its ethical implications. Definitely many ideas for reflection that have further convinced me of the importance of establishing a day of deepening, also cultural and philosophical, on such an important but also articulated and complex theme. On the other hand, in re-reading some passages and comments, not only those few opinions contrary to the approval of the measure, I had the feeling that we were a little out of the meaning that the law provides to give to this day. As stated in Article 1, in fact, the Day aims to offer citizens the opportunity to acquire a greater awareness of the contribution that choices and donations can bring to the growth of Italian society, recognizing in them a form of commitment and participation in which the primary values of freedom and solidarity established by the Constitution find an expression highly worthy of being recognized and promoted. It is a further recognition, therefore, of the social and constitutional value of the donation choices, what they are and what are the individual motivations that lead them to practice, with the institution of a moment of reflection that can increase and strengthen - I think it is everyone's wish - the culture of donation and solidarity in our country. It is therefore not an attempt to create a constraint, at least for a day, towards acts which by their very nature are spontaneous and free. It does not mean institutionalizing spontaneous generosity and it is not even a mere praise of a feeling of altruism that concerns only the personal and intimate sphere of people; and it is good that it is not a mere praise, otherwise the accusations directed at the bill of hypocrisy and uselessness would seem justifiable. Indeed, if the total number of associations in the third sector has increased by 28% and employees by 39.4%, with 4.7 million volunteers in the last decade, in parallel, in the management of the social state, there is a progressive and more and more marked decommitment by public institutions at both central and peripheral level. The attention and praise to the gift and generosity of Italians must not therefore turn into an attempt and desire to further unload on the availability of good people the inefficiencies of the social state and the weight of new cuts. However, this is obviously not the intention of the draft law in question. As the president of the Italian Institute of Donation has emphasized, bringing to the attention of the public the theme of the gift allows to rediscover the value of gratuitousness: a value that brings lifeblood to society, that fights against indifference and selfishness and that, as far as possible, reconstructs relationships of trust and reciprocity. In fact, if by crisis we do not just consider the economic situation alone, but we take into account all the social and cultural signs that are indicated in order to reach the conclusion (pessimistic and hopeless) that ours is a nation in full decline, then valorizing and cultivating the solidarity of Italians represents a fundamental battle, not only to contribute to the end of the economic crisis, but also and above all to regenerate and preserve the spirit of national community against the easy temptation to close in personal interest and indifference towards others. Giving oneself to others feeds on those who give and receive the civic sense and spirit of brotherhood. Solidarity, civic sense, attention to public res, economic development and efficiency of services are links of the same chain. Well, then, to set up Gift Day, aware that for politics such an act also means taking the commitment to act daily to facilitate and encourage the culture of solidarity and social policies. It is also good that this day falls on the same day - October 4 - already dedicated to peace and fraternity among peoples. Beyond Italy and our national community, there is indeed a need to look at a Europe and a world with different eyes and parameters (today Minister Padoan and all those who participated in the discussion on Greece and Europe have made it clear). I therefore declare that the Mixed Group, together with the SEL component, will vote in favour of this bill. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Orellana, Romani Maurizio, Molinari and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u79	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, the issue of gratuitousness is very central today in our society, where the scarcity of resources grabs us and instinctively drives us to try to defend ours. At the moment, we must make a leap beyond the obstacle and think that perhaps, at this very moment, the principles of solidarity, equity and cooperation between citizens, but also between States, can be the solution to the problem. I remember a phrase gathered at a banquet among the citizens, who said that things that are most valuable in life do not have an economic equivalent. I wish that of this principle, not only could we bear a symbolic witness with a day, but also that we were spokesmen and witnesses in everyday practice. For this reason, I have very much appreciated the fact that we have received our agenda which calls for this, namely that, in addition to the symbolic identification, timely and important, of a day in which to focus attention, within the schools, through interventions on general indications that then fall on school programs and programming, attention should be paid, by the Government, to convey to students, in the daily life, the values of cooperation, collaboration and the gratuitousness of the commitment made simply for the pleasure and also - if I may say - the advantage in terms of the quality of the human experience that derives from it. We as politicians are then called to give continuity to these statements, to the statements that we use today to argue our vote, even in formal legislative acts. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we have a fundamental measure, the third sector, which contains crucial elements on this issue: for example, civil service as a duty of solidarity towards one's own nation or volunteering. So I would like us to translate into this legislation the principles that we affirm, avoiding the risk that in some way this added value, this great quality of the Italian people, this propensity towards the other are seen simply as an opportunity to build a market, to build a business, to build a job, because that is not the spirit. We are told by the associations and large voluntary organizations that work in the field of blood donation, but also those that in small towns are fighting to improve, through the activation from below, the quality of social relations and life, even in extreme and frontier conditions. I would also like us to take this into account in rethinking a Europe where it is not - as some would like to pass - a concession of the ant towards the cicada, but perhaps a broader, higher and more far-sighted idea, what we must build today, that is, the idea of freedom and autonomy of each country, in a context that leaves everyone the vital space to be able to maintain their identity. This is not just about Europe, it is also about the international context. Today we are facing a humanitarian crisis, a very serious emergency, because towards the world, the third world, as it is called, but the only world, as we must learn to think, with regard to this one world of ours we must begin to apply principles of equity and give up the claim to isolate ourselves in an ivory tower. This does not mean losing our roots and our identity, but rather realizing the conditions for other people to live in their own country, with their identity and in a spirit of peace and collaboration between peoples. With regard to this scenario, perhaps the establishment of a Gift Day may seem a small thing; but if this calls us to our duties, as set out in Article 2 of the Constitution, to have a broad view of the other, I believe that this will be productive. Therefore, the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u82	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the People's Area will vote in favour of this bill and I ask you to be able to deliver the written text of my brief speech, so that it can be annexed to the Reports of the sitting. Let me conclude by saying this. Compared to what I have heard in this House, in a speech in a particular way, Cicero's words came back to my mind: the essence of the word is noble, in fact we can learn and teach with the word, with the word we exist, but the word must always be proba and measured. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD and the Roman Senator.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u83	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the written text of your speech, Senator Bianconi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u85	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u86	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would have been formally opposed by my Group and also by the Presidency, because if Article 3 had allowed me to make an explanation of vote, I would have been in time to have an answer from the Government and the proposers to the fact that on 4 October - I do not know why Mr Puglia's speech has sparked laughter - it is already dedicated to a civil solemnity, in accordance with Law No 260 of 27 May 1949, in fact, it is a day on which public offices observe reduced times and on which flags must be displayed on all public buildings, because that of St. Francis and St. Catherine is a solemnity recognized by the Italian State, therefore a civil solemnity. I would like it to be explained to me, then, because on 4 October, on the day of a civil solemnity on which a whole series of obligations are foreseen also for the Government, for example, to participate in demonstrations, or for the Regions to bring holy oil to Assisi, there is another day that is not even civil solemnity. On three hundred and sixty-five days was it necessary to go and choose as the day that is already engaged by a civil solemnity? Don't you think out of here they'll think that when we do things we don't know how Italian laws work and what civil solemnities are? I would have liked to raise this problem for the government or some of my colleagues to explain to me why it was precisely that day, which is already dedicated to a different solemnity. I would have liked to say that and I could not do that, so I say that now and of course I will not be voting in favour of this measure. [[Applause from Senator Pagnoncelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u87	Colleagues, we are talking about a measure that has already had a reading in the House and the Senate, in which Articles 1 and 2, which fix October 4, are already defined and unchangeable and no one has tabled amendments at the time to make the date coincide with another day. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] Too bad it was the one of the previous time, not the one we are discussing today, because today it is only Article 3 that does not talk about the day 4 October. Then everyone will vote as they please.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u90	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would ask you to be able to hand over the text of my speech so that it is annexed to the Minutes of the sitting and I shall confine myself to two points. Setting up the Gift Day can be a small opportunity to strengthen social cohesion in our country, but it can also become one of the many useless rituals destined to fade over time and awaken good feelings only on that date. I therefore believe that this is an opportunity which must not be lost. I believe, in conclusion, that the Gift Day should above all help to tell good Italy, that committed to active citizenship, those millions of citizens who silently work every day for the common good. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Granaiola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u91	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the written text of your speech, Senator Mazzoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u94	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party - it is obvious - will confirm its vote in favour. Excellent explanations of vote have already been made during the first reading, so I would like to refer to those, and I would just like to add a few comments. The first is that what made us think a lot, in the approach to this bill, is first of all the fact that the first signature is that of a former governor of the Bank of Italy, then of a person with a particular sensitivity and a logic that is not that - at least professionally - of the gift, but that of the market. Yet, just from a figure like this comes a lesson of life, because while knowing well the logic of the market has tried to divert our attention to that of gratuitousness and gift. Given the first sign so important, they follow the signatures of the Group Leaders. The other aspect that made me think a lot and on which I wanted to draw your attention is that at a time when we talk about rights and in a country like Italy, which is a Republic in which the political and parliamentary debate very often focuses, rightly and correctly, on rights, which are not always guaranteed - so we do well to continue to talk about it - there is very little talk, instead, of duties, as if the Constitution did not include the duties of the Italian citizen, and we talk even less about behavior. There are therefore three categories - rights, duties and behaviour - that are together in our Constitution. Well, Article 1 of this bill, which I retrace because I have little to say about Article 3 on which the amendment made by the House is concerned, summarizes the principles I have spoken about, where it is expected that the primary values of freedom - which is a right - and of solidarity - which is a duty - established by the Constitution find an expression highly worthy of being recognized and promoted through this synthesis of the gift. I would have no temptation to speak of the gift in charitable terms or to echo religious doctrines; instead, I would like to recall this word in strongly civilized terms. Moreover, the law we are debating requires us to do so. It is not true that the gift is in human nature, as someone has said; perhaps it is in the human nature of the individual, but the gift as a civil virtue, as a duty of political, economic and social solidarity must be cultivated, because very often in our society there are instead selfishness and not gift. As a personal testimony I would like to say that, by combining it with administrative, legislative and at all levels, this signal that sends us the bill becomes very significant. Mrs De Biasi, in the previous phase, drew attention not only to volunteering, but to everything she can give and do the gift in health care. For example, regarding blood donation, trouble if there was no free blood donation, and the same goes for organ donation. The world of health, which is so weak from an economic point of view and so full of problems, needs gratuitousness and perhaps is the place where this concept is expressed in the highest way. Mr Liuzzi, whom I thank, made a wonderful explanation of vote. I believe that we must approach this bill not as a banality. It's easy to think of it as a first approach, let's tell the truth, because there are days dedicated to so many things. A colleague earlier said that there was a coincidence, but let's face it, in recent years nothing has been done but to set up days for something, so the legislator and the citizen from this point of view have struggled a bit. Since we make this law, let's give it meaning and meaning. In order to do this, I conclude my speech by saying that the measure we are going to vote only brings back to the system and combines values that are very significant compared to our Constitution, which are the only ones that can strengthen in our State that element, with which there is a great deal of carelessness, which is social cohesion. That value of solidarity that then becomes social cohesion is an important value that holds a nation up. Thank you and good vote to all. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u97	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u98	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u100	I take note of this and give you the floor, but very quickly because we are already in the voting phase, Senator Blundo. It must be requested...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u101	BLUNDO (M5S). Excuse me, ma'am? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Things need to be requested first, not... BLUNDO (M5S). We've asked before. She's the one who won't let us talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then there was no request, so let us proceed to the vote. BLUNDO (M5S). So, I...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u102	No, that's enough, Senator Blondo. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Colleagues, the courtesies cannot be answered with non-courtesies. Either you subscribe to the terms of regulation and you accept the fact that you are granted the word, or else you behave differently. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups. Senators tell the president they couldn't vote.]] I invite senators who haven't been able to vote to report it to secretary senators. [[Senator Blondo repeatedly points out that she wants to intervene]] Senator Blondo, let me talk first. She'll talk later. It is now necessary to organize our work. As there are already 12.30 p.m., there are five senators who have spoken on matters not on the agenda, and then we also have the meeting of the Presidency Council, appreciated the circumstances, and I refer the debate of document XVI- bis, No 3, to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u104	Yes, Senator Blundo, you have it now.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u105	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I first witnessed an irregular behaviour. I have stood up, and my group too, and I have pointed out that I wanted to ask for the floor already at the time of the vote on Rule 1. You, Mr President, have quietly ignored us. After that, I got up again before the vote took place. You accelerated the vote and again ignored our request, and then said that we had to ask for it first. We do not recognize this behaviour as respectful of the rules but, above all, we do not recognise respect for minorities and for those who ask for the floor to make an explanation of vote in dissent. I intended to declare my vote in dissent to a bill that provides for the overlapping of two anniversaries on the day of 4 October, that of the patron of Italy with the day of the gift (which is most just), without recognizing the value and presence of the day dedicated to St. Francis. By the way, he's the real...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u106	Senator Blundo, I'm sorry, you call me back to a minority respect. Well, the rapporteur of the measure belongs to his Group, Senator Puglia spoke for twenty minutes and Senator Endrizzi was allowed to reverse the order of interventions, since he had a commitment, so that he could make the explanation of vote. You then tell me that you asked for the floor before the vote on Article 1 and Article 1 was not voted on. So, that's enough! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u109	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, what happened at the Central Station of Livorno is very topical, where ten workers are at risk of being out of work for the refusal of the management of Centostationi SpA to accept a confrontation with the parties concerned and with the trade union representatives. For two times Centostazioni SpA has deserted the table convened at the prefecture; serious fact, especially because an important share of Centostazioni SpA is in state hands. The two prefecture tables were an opportunity to try to find a solution to the employment future of the ten employees of the Buffet of the Station, a historic place located inside the Central Station. Once trains, rails and stations were built to facilitate the mobility of citizens; lately, the password of Ferrovie dello Stato is to do business. It's called Centostationi, but perhaps it would be better to call this company Centovetrine, since by now we citizens are seen only as potential consumers. We are no longer talking about providing services, but only about squeezing profits. Ferrovie dello Stato has become a large holding company within which companies and sub-society have multiplied. An archipelago made up of a thousand corporate islands with boards of directors, often located in prestigious buildings and with lautically paid councillors and managing directors. It is often difficult to understand the situation of some of these companies and to find an interlocutor to communicate with: most of the time you end up talking with a call center, with a recorded voice. The Government, and in particular the Minister for Transport Delrio and the Minister for Economic Affairs Padoan, should monitor the ways in which the management of Centostationi SpA is managing the 103 most important railway stations in Italy. In this regard, I would like to point out that on 1 July last I put the written question 4-04207 on this subject, to which I hope that an answer will be given as soon as possible. Meanwhile, I manifest by the 5 Star Movement the full proximity to the ten workers of the bar of the Central Station of Livorno. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u112	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is intended to clarify and underline what has happened in Veneto as a result of the very serious calamitous event of this incredible, sudden air trumpet, which fell on the Venetian side and in part on the Padua. We are talking about calamitous events that are certainly not predictable and which, however, come to fall, really as an acceptance, on society, on businesses and on families that already, nowadays, suffer a state of crisis. These are events that you wouldn't want to happen. Certainly, when they happen, Veneto always gives a great proof of dignity. The works began immediately. The Veneto Region itself and President Zaia went to the area and immediately began to prepare what was necessary. Think about what is the Veneto people, since on the materials we are already proceeding to a separate collection (glasses with glass, plastics with plastics), still to emphasize how this people, even in the face of situations such as this (a dead, 72 injured and incalculable damages, not yet calculated and who knows if they will then be calculated at the end), immediately gets to work. In this respect, it is not only necessary for the Venetian people to manage themselves, as has always been the case in their history, but it is also right that the government should take all measures, instruments and resources to deal with this situation. As the Lega Nord Group, we have already taken the opportunity to table amendments to Decree-Law No 78 of 2015, we have already tabled a question and we will do what is necessary to urge that the state of disaster be declared and that these resources be prepared: exemption from the IMU, facilitation of financing and a sure help to companies and families who certainly need it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Scibona.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u115	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, when you listen to us from outside, I am speaking to bring to the attention of this House a very serious incident which occurred on 27 July 2014 concerning the citizens of Giuseppe Parrò, Angelo Tavano and Francesco Rania, three fishermen who disappeared following a fishing trip last July. We haven't heard from these three people yet. Families have tried in every way to communicate their despair and to activate the normal search processes of these three Italian citizens. More specifically, consider that on August 18, 2014, the attorney of the families wrote to the prosecutor to see if there were any other reasons for this disappearance; the answer arrived in March 2015. On 25 August the boat of the three fishermen was found by a local fishing vessel, which took the boat during a fishing trip. The stretch of sea is well located. You think the cell phone of one of the three missing rang for hours, so the stretch of sea is well circumstantial. I put a question to solicit the Minister of Defence on 28 October 2014, but often within these classrooms there is the weakening of responsibilities, so the Ministry of Defence did not respond thinking that the competence was of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, as probably was correct. The Minister gave no explanation, except a letter to the family members in which he specified that intervention was not in his power, because it was not his responsibility. Today I have tabled two new questions, because the prosecutor has given his permission to the Ministry of Defence so that he can do this research; then I have put another question to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport in which I say that, if they want, they can take action. From the human point of view, the piety of people, Mr President, I believe that these facts must immediately be brought to the attention of the two competent ministers, because at the bottom of the sea, at 150 metres of depth of the sea, there cannot be citizens of different nationalities, nor citizens of the A or B series. However, on 18 April the Ministry of Defence intervened - and I do not stress briefly what means it is using - to take back the bodies of the 700 immigrants sunk with a fishing boat some time ago: therefore, if it is possible to recover the bodies of 700 immigrants, I believe that it is necessary for the Ministers of the Italian Republic to ensure that what has remained of these three Italian citizens is recovered and given back to the families. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u118	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, the air trumpet that struck some of the Venetian territories yesterday, in particular the localities of Dolo, Cazzago and Mira, unfortunately leaves a trail of death and wounded: there are, in fact, several dozen wounded, some of whom are quite serious. First of all, I would like to thank civil protection, all the volunteers, all the structures, the law enforcement agencies, the municipal employees of the various fractions who are working 100% of their chances of alleviating the damage and putting in place the remedies as quickly as possible. Firstly, I would like to express my thanks to those who are doing much more than their duty. A bank account has also been prepared and, if anyone wants to contribute, it can be found on the websites of the municipalities concerned that, I repeat, are Dolo, Cazzago and Mira. I would like to reiterate two points. The first is that these so-called "extreme" events will be less and less extreme and more frequent. It is a law of physics: in a few decades we are entering into the atmosphere frightening amount of energy, the atmosphere is a closed cycle, what we place burning fuel in huge quantities somehow has to find an outlet and reenter the cycle. Therefore, for the umpteenth time I stress the urgency for Italian policy to put pressure on Brussels and for Brussels to put pressure on the rest of the world, because climate change is taking place and these extreme weather phenomena are simply a direct consequence of it. It does not make sense, therefore, to speak of inevitability: these events will unfortunately occur more and more often and more often we will have to find ourselves crying for the misfortunes that have occurred. Another practical thing that we and we politicians can and must do is stabilize the tax deduction for the ordinary renovation of buildings. You know that as a 5 Star Movement we have been working for two years to stabilize the tax deduction on energy efficiency interventions, which are a slightly different thing. Well, the tax deduction on simple restructuring must also be stabilised, which once again has an annual deadline: once again, it will expire on 31 December and "we have absolutely no dawn" if it is extended. These renovations are, of course, very important, because they would make the buildings banally more solid. If anyone has had the chance to see the photographs of the areas hit yesterday by this air trumpet, they will have realized that they show impressive things, because the buildings were destroyed. Clearly, if we can help the citizens, we must do so with these tax deductions: please, let us do this; let us establish for two, three or four years also the tax deduction for simple restructuring. This is a way of really helping the citizens and not just crying for misfortunes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u121	DE PIN (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, I too would like to express my solidarity with what has happened in Venetian territory. Moreover, as a member of parliament from Treviso and Veneto, I would like to pay tribute here to Mario Bernardi, the opitergino writer who died last Saturday in Treviso. Mario Bernardi, despite not having had the national fame he deserved, was one of the most important figures of the Venetian culture in the last half century. Bernardi has moved in the most diverse areas: in cultural organization, in journalism, in essay, in narrative and in poetry. As an editor and editor of important publishing houses, such as Einaudi, Baldini and Castoldi and Marsilio, he edited the publication and distribution in the bookstores of the most important texts of modern literature. He then devoted himself to historical research and study of popular traditions, investigating the microcosms of the Venetian land and their relations with the great events (wars, changes of political regime, economic transformations). Among the many works written by him, I would at least like to remember "From here and beyond of the Piave" of 1989: in this book, Mario Bernardi tells the story of the land of San Donà di Piave and Montello, when they were crossed from the front during the First World War. With a brilliant and smooth style, often using the oral testimonies of the last living witnesses, Mario Bernardi reconstructs one of the most difficult and dramatic periods of Venetian history. At the center of this essay, which often has the traits and vivacity of the novel, is the Venetian people, able to cross the apocalypse of conflict with dignity and courage. Behind the rhetoric of the proclamations, the common sense and humility of a people who know how to react to tragedies with indomitable will always emerge. But it is true, perhaps, that in the narrative Mario Bernardi has achieved the most remarkable results, with important protagonists. We who lived in the '70s, '80s and '90s the transformation that led an agricultural area such as then the province of Treviso to become one of the industrial locomotives of the country we owe very much to Mario Bernardi, who taught us who we are and where we come from, what are our roots and values that allowed us to conquer the relative well-being that we enjoy today. He explained above all that our living with this wealth lies in the generosity, in the spirit of solidarity, in the tenacity of our people. Armed with these values, the Venetians have always passed very hard trials in the last century and above all they will be able to overcome now the dramas of the crisis that we are living in these days. Now that Mario Bernardi is gone, he likes to imagine him in the paradise of the Venetian writers to discuss art and literature with Giovanni Comisso, Goffredo Parise, Andrea Zanzotto, Fernando Bandini, his brotherly friend Mario Rigoni Stern and the other intellectuals of the province who have honored the Homeland with the works of their ingenuity. A great greeting again to Mario Bernardi. [[Applause from Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-481.ana.u122	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.09 p.m.
